This man was the leading light of the so-called "Maler-Companie" which decorated the northern wall of the Kunsthistorisches (koonst-hih-STOR-ih-shehs) Museum. Three women bow their heads below a pregnant woman who has a skull protruding from her gown in his painting Hope II. This artist's university ceiling paintings of Philosophy, Medicine and Jurisprudence joined a painting of Theology by Franz Matsch. In 2006, the Österreichische (us-tuh-RIE-kuh-shuh) Gallery returned a Nazi-seized (*) portrait by this artist of a woman in an eye-ball decorated dress. He painted multiple portraits of Adele Bloch-Bauer points, name this leader of the Vienna Secession movement who painted The Kiss.ANSWER: Gustav Klimt <Bentley>
For three months near the end of this war, William Fenwick Williams defended the small town of Kars. This war began shortly after France sent the ship-of-line Charlemagne as a show of force in violation of the London Straits Convention. In this war, Patrice McMahon captured the Malakoff Redoubt early in his career. William Howard Russell documented this war for The Times, and the (*) Victoria Cross was introduced in its aftermath. Sir Colin Campbell ordered his men to array two-deep, setting up a "Thin Red Line," and six-hundred men were sent to attack a well-prepared artillery battery, at its Battle of Balaclava. For 10 points, name this war in which Lord Cardigan led the charge of the Light Brigade, fought by an Ottoman and European alliance against Russia.ANSWER: Crimean War <Wang>
This man's theology was examined by Marisilio Ficino, a prominent Florentine. Ralph Cudworth led a group of theologians inspired by this man at Cambridge. He's neither W.V.O. Quine nor Hillary Putnam, but this man's name often denotes the philosophical view that mathematical objects are ontologically real outside the imagination. A re-envisioning of this man's philosophy, which described reality as decreasingly pure (*) emanations from "The One," appeared in the Enneads of Plotinus in the 200s CE. Before Augustine was a Manichean, he was among the "neo" followers of this philosopher, whose own views included a theory of ideal forms. For 10 points, name this author of the allegory of the cave, a Greek philosopher who taught Aristotle and was Socrates's student.ANSWER: Plato [or Platon; or Aristocles] <Jackson>
All fields with characteristic zero contain a copy of this field. The cardinality of this set can be established by writing each element in a big square, then moving diagonally down the square to count them. The larger completion of this set can be constructed from it by partitioning it, then taking the least upper bound of the lesser partition. (*) Algebraic numbers are the roots of polynomials whose coefficients come from this set. This set is the starting point for doing Dedekind cuts, and it is dense in the reals. The set of all of these numbers is denoted Q, and they have eventually repeating or terminating decimal expansions. For 10 points, identify these numbers, which, for integers a and b, can be written as the fraction a over b.ANSWER: rational numbers <Schindler> - Page 2 of 13 5. This color appears in the title of a story in which the narrator sees a white patch on a "brute beast" slowly resolve itself into the shape of a gallows. A clock of this color regularly interrupts the musicians in a story in which a dagger-wielding man chases a "mummer" into a room decorated in this color, only to fall dead. In a short story, an alcoholic who buries his wife in his cellar uses a penknife to remove the (*) eye of Pluto, an animal of this color. Another animal of this color is asked "is there balm in Gilead?" as it sits on a bust of Pallas after appearing on "a midnight dreary" while the poet "pondered, weak and weary". For 10 points, name this color of the title cat of a story by Edgar Allan Poe, who used it to describe the "plume" of "The Raven".
In Act II of this opera, a gavotte is heard from outside the palace during a victory celebration in honor of General Melas. The male lead contrasts the blue eyes of an "unknown beauty" he has seen in church with the black eyes of his lover in "Recondita Armonia." The villain uses a fan to arouse the title character's jealousy and convince her to betray (*) Angelotti in exchange for her lover's life. That title character asks God why she has suffered such misfortune in "Vissi d'arte, vissi d'amore," and jumps to her death after realizing that Cavaradossi's "fake" execution was real after all. For 10 points, name this opera in which the title singer stabs the wicked police chief Scarpia, by Giacomo Puccini.ANSWER: Tosca <Rosenberg>
In a Teutonic myth, this god is slain by the sword belonging to the forest troll Miming (MIM-ing). This god lends his name to a poem that ends with the traveler Vegtam having his true identity revealed. One of this god's possessions can only be moved by a woman who rides a giant wolf bridled by snakes. A battle of wits ends when the words that were once (*) whispered into this god's ear cannot be identified by Vafthrudnir. Plans to retrieve this deity go awry when the jotun Thokk refuses to weep. This god's mother Frigg makes all but one substance in the world promise never to harm this god. For 10 points, name this brother of Hoder, a Norse god who dies when Loki strikes him with a spear of mistletoe.ANSWER: Balder [or Baldr; or Baldur] <Kim>
A "college without walls" named for this man in Mount Angel, Oregon, remained open from 1973-83. This man and his younger brother Richard joined a protest that pressured DiGiorgio Corporation into holding an election for its workers. This man's meeting with Ferdinand Marcos backfired and alienated many key allies, including Philip Vera Cruz. While undertaking his twenty-four day fast in Phoenix, Arizona, this man came up with the slogan (*) "Yes, one can." The Filipino-dominated AWOC merged with the NFWA co-founded by this man and Dolores Huerta to form the UFW. This man had his followers persuade longshoremen not to load grape shipments. For 10 points, name this Mexican-American activist on behalf of farmlaborers, who is honored by a March 31st holiday.ANSWER: Cesar Chavez [or Cesar Estrada Chavez] <Gupta>
In a classic example of inverse Compton scattering, photons in this region of the spectrum gain energy through the redshift-independent SZ effect. The selection rule delta J equals plus or minus one applies to rotational spectroscopy using this type of radiation. This radiation has frequency slightly greater than ultra-high or super-high frequency radiation. Radiation at (*) 2.7 Kelvin has its maximum intensity wavelength in this region of the spectrum. A cavity magnetron produces this type of radiation. At Bell Labs in New Jersey, Penzias and Wilson discovered a nearly constant spectrum of this radiation in the universe left over from the Big Bang. For 10 points, name this form of radiation which is slightly less energetic than infrared and is often used to cook food.ANSWER: microwaves [prompt on radio waves] <Silverman> - Page 3 of 13 10. A character in this play is ordered to first put several drops of vinegar in each of various sensory organs, then cry "hum" and "buz" thrice each. Another character in this play disguises himself as a Spanish nobleman and is mocked by two characters who think he can't speak English. Kastril receives a quarreling lesson in this play, which also features a character who wants to meet the Queen of Fairy and a group of Anabaptists led by (*) Tribulation Wholesome. At the end of this play, Dame Pliant marries Lovewit, who had earlier left London because of the plague. Dol Common is courted by Epicure Mammon, who seeks out the protagonists in order to acquire the philosopher's stone in, for 10 points, what Ben Jonson play about the con artists Face and Subtle?
This passage rhetorically asks "Can any one of you by worrying add a single hour to your life?" A large part of this passage consists of the phrase "You have heard it said," followed by a prescription from Mosaic Law, then the phrase "but I say unto you," followed by a refutation of the prescription. The final verse of this passage beseeches listeners to "Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect." This passage discards the metaphor of people being the (*) "salt of the earth" in favor of them being "the light of the world." The declaration "Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth" is one of this passage's Beatitudes. For 10 points, name this section of the Book of Matthew, an oration Jesus delivered at an elevated place.ANSWER: Sermon on the Mount [prompt on Book of Matthew; prompt to be less specific on Beatitudes before mentioned; prompt to be less specific on Matthew's Antitheses] <Gupta>
One book subtitled for this condition in the United States asserts that this condition's invisibility made it particularly pernicious. That book was written in 1962 by Michael Harrington. Another book on this condition was a response to the legislation that created TANF and sees the author travel to three different states to work temporary jobs. People in this condition lacked all four entitlements in a book examining the link between this condition and (*) famines by Amartya Sen. This condition described in The Other America was portrayed in Paris kitchens and London spikes in a book by George Orwell. For 10 points, name this economic condition explored by Barbara Ehrenreich in Nickel and Dimed that is often fought with welfare programs.ANSWER: poverty [or being down and out; or being poor] <Bentley>
Selegiline raises the availability of this compound by selectively inhibiting MAO-B. This compound's second G protein-coupled receptor, which inhibits adenylyl cyclase, is targeted by many antipsychotic drugs. This compound's beta-hydroxylase catalyzes its transformation into norepinephrine. The ventral tegmental area contains the largest group of neurons releasing this neurotransmitter in the brain. A chiral precursor to this compound with (*) L-configuration is used to treat a disease in which neurons releasing it in the substantia nigra die, leading to tremors and a slow, shuffling gait. For 10 points, name this neurotransmitter involved in pleasure-reward pathways in the brain, whose levels fall in Parkinson's disease.ANSWER: dopamine [or 3,4-dihydroxyphenethylamine] <Gupta>
The German Romantic opposition to this classical author was led by the Schlegel brothers, who claimed that an "immeasurable gulf" separated him from his contemporaries. The title character of a play by this man drunkenly calls another character "Ganymede", then drags that character into a cave to have sex with him. In the final scene of another of his plays, the antagonist appears in a dragon-pulled chariot with the bodies of (*) her dead children. This author of Cyclops, the only surviving satyr play, wrote a play in which a group led by Agave rips apart Pentheus, as directed by Dionysus. He also wrote a play whose antagonist murders Glauce to take revenge on her unfaithful husband Jason. For 10 points, name this Greek tragedian who wrote The Bacchae and Medea.ANSWER: Euripides <Carson> - Page 4 of 13 15. In 2010, Greenpeace protesters off the coast of this island scaled the Stena Don oil rig owned by Cairn Energy. This island's extremely agglutinative namesake language was first given a Latin orthography by missionary Samuel Kleinschmidt. Archaeologists divide sites on this island into Western, Middle, and Eastern Settlements, the last of which contains the well-preserved ruins of the medieval-era Hvalsey church. In 1888, this island was crossed for the first time by Fridtjof Nansen. The U.S. operates (*) Thule Air Base on the western shore of this island, part of which faces the Davis Strait. Since 1979, it has been administered under home rule from the settlement of Nuuk. For 10 points, name this large northerly island once owned by Denmark.
In preparation for World War I, workers in this industry were granted an eight-hour day through the Adamson Act. In the Civil War, Herman Haupt supervised this industry for the Union and War Secretary Simon Cameron resigned due to his role in profiteering from it. An 1862 act issued bonds to a company in this industry established by Theodore Judah and financed by the Big Four. A Civil War raid using (*) infrastructure from this industry inspired Buster Keaton's film The General. Ruined infrastructure from this industry became "Sherman's Neckties" during the March to the Sea. An 1862 Act of Congress proposed a project in this industry eventually completed at Promontory Point with the driving in of a golden spike. For 10 points, the Union Pacific Company is in which industry?ANSWER: railroads [or rail industry; prompt on transportation] <Bentley>
The alpha and beta Kamlet-Taft parameters quantify the extent of this effect. This phenomenon is modeled as a double-well potential between donors and acceptors. SN1 reactions, but not SN2, are sped up by solvents demonstrating this effect. It is often incorrectly given as the reason for the higher melting temperatures of CG-rich DNA sequences. This interaction occurs perpendicular to the chains of antiparallel (*) beta sheets and links the amide groups of every fourth residue of an alpha helix. Alcohols have higher boiling points than ethers because of this phenomenon. This strong class of dipole-dipole forces classically requires nitrogen, oxygen, or fluorine to be present. For 10 points, name this intermolecular attractive force involving the lightest element.ANSWER: hydrogen bonding [or H bonding] <Silverman>
This composer's last three masses are all in the key of B-flat, and another of his masses is sometimes nicknamed for the prominent timpani solo in the "Agnus Dei." Another of his choral pieces concludes part 1 with "The Heavens are Telling the Glory of God." The melody from the second movement of this composer's "Emperor" (*) Quartet is now used for the German national anthem. This composer wrote Mass in Time of War and the "Nelson" Mass while under the patronage of Prince Nikolaus Esterhazy, and he also composed an oratorio inspired by Paradise Lost and the Book of Genesis, called The Creation. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer known as the "Father of the String Quartet" and "Father of the Symphony."ANSWER: Joseph Haydn [or Franz Joseph Haydn] <Rosenberg>
A leader of this country enjoyed demolishing huge swathes of urban areas as part of his North Koreainspired "systematization" campaign. This country was represented on the world stage by female diplomat Ana Pauker. A dictator in this country encouraged women to become "heroine mothers" by having ten or more children, and controlled his populace with the Securitate secret police. The (*) Iron Guard carried out the Final Solution in this country, which joined Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia in the Little Entente, and was led throughout most of World War II by the pro-German Ion (EON) Antonescu. A leader of this country was tried and executed with his wife Elena on Christmas, 1989. For 10 points, name this Eastern European country ruled by the dictator Nicolae Ceausescu (chow-SHES-koo).ANSWER: Romania <Mukherjee> - Page 5 of 13 20. A character created by this author dismisses "outward things", claiming "I am my Heaven and my Hell". In a play by this author, a group of generals are shown a document with a clause pledging loyalty to the emperor, which is removed from a different copy that all but one general signs after Illo and Terzky get the generals drunk. A trilogy by this author is titled for a character who is found out to have been (*) negotiating with the Swedes. Another of his protagonists is plotted against both by the vengeful Spiegelberg and by his own brother, Franz, who desires Amalia and tricks the Old Moor into disowning Karl. For 10 points, name this author of Wallenstein and The Robbers, who also wrote a poem to the "daughter of Elysium" called "Ode to Joy."
This man's medical practice with James Bates failed after Bates's death, after which he decided to go to sea. This man's cousin Richard Sympson edited out nearly half of a manuscript this man wrote, in which he described how he was taught languages by the Sorrel Nag and Glumdalclitch. In one episode, he is arrested after putting out a fire by urinating on it, while in another, he is forced out of a community of ultra-rational (*) horse-like creatures who believe him to be a Yahoo. He encounters the Little-Endians and BigEndians in a country whose leaders charge him with treason, forcing him to flee to Blefuscu. For 10 points, name this fictional author and adventurer who visits Laputa, Brobdingnag, and Lilliput in a satirical travelogue by Jonathan Swift.ANSWER: Lemuel Gulliver [accept either underlined portion] <Gehring>
The momentum j-factor in the Chilton-Colburn analogy is given by a number describing this phenomenon, divided by two. A constant factor of 1.33, times the square root of the Reynolds number, gives the magnitude of this phenomenon on a flat plate. For high Reynolds numbers, the magnitude of this force is proportional to the velocity squared, but in creeping flow, the dependence is (*) linear, with a coefficient often symbolized b. This force is proportional to the radius and viscosity according to Stokes' Law for spherical particles. The "form" contribution to this force is greater when a surface is perpendicular to the oncoming streamlines. For 10 points, name this force that balances gravity at the terminal velocity, and opposes thrust in fluids.ANSWER: drag force [or air resistance; prompt on air friction] <Silverman>
Abraham Mendel Theben convinced this ruler to offer limited protections to Jews. This ruler appears on the obverse of a namesake silver bullion thaler which was circulated for over two centuries. Wenzel Anton von Kaunitz was state chancellor and foreign minister to this ruler, during whose reign the physician Gerard van Swieten was sent to Moravia to investigate the existence of vampires. Charles (*) VI's flagrant disregard for Salic law resulted in this ruler taking the throne. After this ruler's death, her country underwent a decade of temporary reform under her son Joseph II. The Pragmatic Sanction attempted to legitimate the rule of this queen, who lost the region of Silesia to Frederick the Great. For 10 points, name this 18th-century queen of Austria.ANSWER: Maria Theresa [or Maria Theresa Walburga Amalia Christina; or Maria Theresia; prompt on partial answer] <Wang>
Ottoman Sultan Abdulmedjid I was forced to scale down his response to this event. The Ballinlass incident was a notorious eviction during this event, in which Count Paul de Strzelecki was tasked with dispersing over four hundred thousand pounds. Attempts to aid the victims of this event were often stymied by the "Gregory clause" of the Poor Law. It's not the Highland Clearances, but people boarded squalid (*) "coffin ships" to escape this event, which was exacerbated by extreme subdivision of land. Robert Peel responded to this event by repealing the Corn Laws. The fungus Phytophthora infestans caused this event. For 10 points, name this period from 1845-52, in which a million people starved to death due to a blight in a staple crop.ANSWER: Irish potato famine [or Great Hunger; or Great Famine; or Irish famine; or An Gorta Mor] <Bentley>
A solo piece for this instrument ends with a movement that quotes folk songs such as "I have been away from you for so long" and "Cabbages and turnips have driven me away." A two-manual variety of this instrument plays the Italian Concerto. A solo piece for this instrument ends with a quodlibet (QUADlee-butt) and includes nine canons, one every three movements. This instrument plays a lengthy cadenza in the first movement of the fifth (*) Brandenburg Concerto. A solo piece for this instrument consists of thirty variations on a G major aria theme. This instrument cannot create dynamics because it plucks the strings rather than hammering them like the piano. For 10 points, the Goldberg Variations were written for what Baroque keyboard instrument?ANSWER: harpsichords [or cembalo; or cembali] <Kim>
One of this author's protagonists uses a drug developed by Magnus Lane to experience the 14th-century unrequited affair between Isolda Carminowe and his doppelganger Roger. In a story by this author of The House on the Strand, Mr. and Mrs. Trigg are among the victims of a series of attacks that Nat Hocken realizes occur only at high tide. In one of this author's novels, the protagonist inadvertently attends a ball wearing a replica of a (*) dress belonging to the deceased title character due to the machinations of Mrs. Danvers. The unnamed narrator is the second wife of Maxim de Winter in that novel by this author, which opens "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again." For 10 points, name this Cornish woman who wrote "The Birds" and Rebecca.ANSWER: Daphne du Maurier [or Dame Daphne du Maurier, Lady Browning] <Carson>
Sympathetic postganglionic cholinergic neurons unusually innervate the structures responsible for this sudomotor process. Ceruminous glands and eyelid ciliary glands are modified forms of structures responsible for this process. This process is used to detect dysfunctional CFTR channels in a namesake test for (*) cystic fibrosis. After puberty, this process can be performed by axillary apocrine glands, where bacteria metabolize its products and produce odor. People suffering from heat stroke cannot perform this process. Dogs pant because they can only perform this thermoregulatory function in their paws. For 10 points, name this process in which evaporative cooling is achieved with salty fluids secreted from the skin.ANSWER: sweating [or perspiration; or diaphoresis; prompt on thermoregulation; prompt on temperature regulation; prompt on cooling] <Smart> - Page 2 of 13 5. A religious leader in this city was accused of eating lozenges in church at the Synod of the Oak. A religious conflict began with the excommunication of Michael I Cerularius, the head of a church in this city. The second-ever ecumenical council was held in this city, and confirmed the Nicene creed. The Divine Liturgy of a church based in this city was penned by St. John Chrysostom. Anthemius of Tralles and Isidore of Miletus constructed a church in this city with a (*) gigantic dome supported on pendentives, which was dedicated to "Holy Wisdom." The Ecumenical Patriarch is the head of a church based in this city that feuded with a church based in Rome during the Great Schism. For 10 points, name this city, home to the Hagia Sophia, the seat of Eastern Orthodoxy.
Frameworks for assisting in this practice include Selenium and Lime. Thoroughly performing this action tends to result in high block coverage. Forms of this practice include the integration and regression types. The term dogfooding is used to describe internal forms of this practice. This process can be performed using tools such as xUnit. Tools that simulate a high number of concurrent connections are useful in performing the (*) "load" or "stress" type of this practice. Alternative layouts might be shown to different groups of users in a website practicing the A/B form of this technique. The public is often asked to participate in the "beta" form of this process. For 10 points, name this practice that tries to root out bugs in programs.ANSWER: software testing [or unit testing; or integration testing; or load testing; or stress testing; or A/B testing; or beta testing; prompt on software validation] <Bentley>
The Byzantine empire gave Geza Arpad one of these objects which is now named for Saint Stephen of Hungary. These objects name a type of phase-transfer catalyst that segregates cations inside a ring of ether monomers. During the Social War, Lucius Cornelius Sulla received a "grass" one of these objects, the highest (*) decoration of the Roman army. In 18th through mid-20th century Britain, these objects named a type of large silver coin worth five shillings. A white and red one symbolizing the unity of Upper and Lower Egypt was often shown in pharaohs' inscriptions. Before the Crucifixion, Jesus received one made of thorns. For 10 points, name these items which are usually heavier than a diadem or tiara, a type of royal headgear.ANSWER: crowns [or Holy Crown of Saint Stephen; or crown ethers; or Grass Crown; or Double Crown; or crown of thorns] <Jackson>
In 1965, a group of French scholars dedicated to Reading this book was led by Louis Althusser, who later analyzed the hailing of citizens by cops as "interpellation." The "transformation problem" was first put forth in the last overarching segment of this text, whose title concept becomes prominent due to "primitive accumulation" and is said to be "vampire-like." The fourth chapter of this book asks whether "C-M-C" or "M-C-M" is the proper formula for (*) circulation. This book, whose fourth volume was compiled posthumously, distinguishes "use value" from "exchange value," and warns that viewing products apart from the laborers exploited to make them leads to commodity fetishism. For 10 points, name this treatise about the economy, by Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx.ANSWER: Das Kapital [or Capital] <Jackson>
This city's Jewish Ghisolfi family helped found the Bank of St. George, which was granted control over colonies in Gazaria and the Taman Peninsula. Constantinople's Galata Tower was built by traders from this city, whose colony of Caffa may have been an entry point for the bubonic plague into Europe. An admiral from this city led the allied fleet that lost to the Ottomans at the Battle of Preveza. (*) Crossbowmen from this city, which was once led by Andrea Doria, were outshot by English longbowmen at the Battle of Crecy. An explorer born in this city appealed to Ferdinand and Isabella for financial support for his four voyages to the New World. For 10 points, name this Italian city, the birthplace of Christopher Columbus, a major maritime rival of Venice.ANSWER: Genoa [or Republic of Genoa] <Wang> - Page 3 of 13 10. After the protagonist of this novel comes home from work, he argues with his mother over whether he returned before or after two in the morning. In this novel, a lawyer gives a man a wooden cross necklace, only for it to be thrown away when that man sees the Ku Klux Klan. A couple eats fried chicken at Charlie's Kitchen Shack to experience (*) black life in this novel, in which the protagonist forges a ransom note with the signature "Reds." Boris A. Max defends this novel's protagonist, who kills a rat with a skillet in its opening scene. This novel's protagonist kills Jan Erlone's girlfriend Mary Dalton by suffocating her with a pillow. For 10 points, name this novel about Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright.
A mother of ten named Etta Mae Miller was sentenced to life in prison for violating this legislation. Violations of this law were changed from misdemeanors to felonies by the Jones Law. This legislation's namesake, a Minnesota Congressman, also co-sponsored a bill that made farm combines exempt from anti-trust laws with Arthur Capper. The "padlock" provisions of this law were used to temporarily (*) close businesses like the Paradise in New York. 13 years after it was passed over Woodrow Wilson's veto, the Blaine Act made it unconstitutional. This legislation's restriction of 0.5% as the legal limit for certain substances were ignored by operators of blind pigs and speakeasies. For 10 points, name this legislation which enforced the 18th Amendment.ANSWER: Volstead Act [or National Prohibition Act; do not accept "18th Amendment"] <Bentley>
A short story character spends the night with some of these people and later dies "with no hopeful verse upon his tombstone." In a novel about this kind of people, three of them conspire to give Jenny cancer in revenge for her marriage to Darryl Van Horne, who has affairs with Alexandra, Jane, and Sukie, residents of a small Rhode Island town. Reverend Hale exclaims "I denounce these proceedings!" in a (*) court case about this kind of people. John Updike wrote a novel about several of these people in Eastwick, and Nathaniel Hawthorne's "Young Goodman Brown" is about one of their meetings. Martha Corey and John Proctor are executed on suspicion of being these people at the end of Arthur Miller's The Crucible. For 10 points, name these people who hang out in covens.ANSWER: witches <Mehigan>
A cat stares at a caged bird in this artist's group portrait of the Graham Children. Faces taken from Raphael and Leonardo are contrasted with contemporary profiles in this artist's Characters and Caricaturas. A child falls from the breast of a woman seated on a flight of stairs in an allegorical etching by this artist warning against foreign spirits. This man's dog stands next to a tondo self-portrait in The (*) Painter and his Pug. The title figure of one of his works ends up naked and shackled to the floor of Bedlam, indifferent to the care of Sarah Young. This artist of Gin Lane created eight paintings of the downfall of Tom Rakewell. For 10 points, name this English artist of the satirical series, A Rake's Progress.ANSWER: William Hogarth <Bentley>
A potential derived from this law predicts energy quantized by half-integer multiples of Planck's constant times frequency. This equation predicts the energy required for an IR-active mode, given the reduced mass of a molecule. In the most common test on an Instron device, this law fails to predict behavior like work hardening or necking as the load increases. This equation models chemical bond vibrations with a quadratic potential energy dependence. A straight line on a (*) stress-strain curve is a consequence of this equation. It uses a proportionality constant which has units of Newtons divided by meters. This law predicts a restoring force that is negative and proportional to the distance extended from equilibrium. For 10 points, name this law which applies to springs.ANSWER: Hooke's Law <Silverman> - Page 4 of 13 15. The Kelvin equation gives solubility as a function of this property. Dynamic light scattering is used to measure this quantity, which continuously increases due to Ostwald ripening. The mean free path is proportional to the negative second power of this quantity. This property of a polymer is determined using chromatography where a gel is the stationary phase. The cross section in (*) collision theory is roughly the sum of this quantity for the molecules. The difference between a colloid and a suspension is this property for the particles. The b term in the van der Waals equation accounts for this property, countering the ideal gas law's assumption that this property for gas molecules is zero. For 10 points, name this quantity which is small for particles that pass through a filter.
Meredith Monk's dance Juice was first performed at this museum, which is where one can find Al Held's Untitled Y and The Yellow Cow by Franz Marc. This museum was originally called The Museum of Non-Objective Painting under the guidance of director Hilla von Rebay. Its architect intended for visitors to ride to the top of the museum and descend down a single incline while viewing its artworks. This museum, designed as a "Temple of the Spirit", resembles both an inverted (*) ziggurat and a ribbon on a cylindrical stack that has been made with curved surfaces. A sister museum to this one is located next to Jeff Koons' statue Puppy; that museum was designed by Frank Gehry and is in Bilbao. For 10 points, name this museum designed by Frank Lloyd Wright in New York City.ANSWER: Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum [or Guggenheim New York; do not accept "Guggenheim Bilbao"] <Jose>
Late in this proceeding, a remark was made that a racecar without a driver can't drive itself. The claim that a decade is "the blink of an eye in the life of a nation" was made at this proceeding, which also warned that in present circumstances, "the enemy of your enemy is your enemy." Its deliverer used the image of "three tentacles of (*) terror" threatening his society. A day after a similar AIPAC address, this speech gave thanks to its audience for aiding the Iron Dome program. Snippets of it were used for ads in the run-up to a March 17th election which this address's speaker won narrowly over Isaac Herzog. For 10 points, what 2015 speech opposing a nuclear deal with Iran was given at the request of House and Senate Republicans by the Prime Minister of Israel?ANSWER: Benjamin Netanyahu's 2015 speech to a joint session of Congress [or Benjamin Netanyahu's third speech to a joint session of the US Congress; or Bibi Netanyahu's March 3rd, 2015 Congressional Speech; accept any answer indicating both Netanyahu and a speech given to Congress] <Bentley>
This character learns how to read from Elective Affinities and a book about Rasputin. This character loves to spit onto his lover's orange fizz powder. He remembers his "presumptive" father holding up a queen of hearts after being arrested in the middle of a game of skat. This character deliberately falls down a trapdoor as a "sacrifice", then joins Bebra's troupe of circus freaks. Bruno (*) Munsterberg makes knot sculptures based on tales told by this character, who finds a murdered nun's severed finger and as a result is locked up in an asylum. This character, who eventually becomes a popular jazz musician at the Onion Cellar, can shatter glass with his voice and decides to stop growing after the age of 3. For 10 points, name this protagonist of The Tin Drum.ANSWER: Oskar Matzerath [accept either underlined portion] <Silverman> - Page 5 of 13 19. This man hid from his creditors by stowing away on a ship in a barrel with his dog. This man undertook his most famous feat after the son of the cacique Comagre promised to show this man a place where people ate on plates of gold. This man, who named the Pearl Islands, was beheaded after great difficulty on trumped-up charges invented by his rival Pedrarias after being personally arrested by Francisco (*) Pizarro. This man established Santa Maria de la Antigua at Darien, the first stable settlement in the Americas. Reinforced by a thousand men supplied by his friend Careta, this man waded through dense forest to cross the Isthmus of Panama. For 10 points, name this conquistador, who in 1513 became the first European to see the Pacific.
The footnote "demon speaking from here on" appears in this text after a narrative about how a hailstorm immediately extinguishes divinely-granted fire. One character in this text dies after eating a bird poisoned with white earth. Its protagonists trick their half-brothers into climbing an endlessly-growing tree. In this text, animals, mud, and wood are used in three failed attempts at (*) creating mankind. In this text, two characters survive the Houses of Gloom and Knives, but one of them is decapitated in the House of Bats by Camazotz. Vucub-Caquix, Cabrakan, and Zipacna are defeated in this text, whose protagonists are called to Xibalba for playing a ball-game too loudly. For 10 points, name this compilation of stories about the Hero Twins, and other Mayan myths.ANSWER: Popol Vuh [or Popol Wuj] <Gupta> - Page 6 of 13 21. Portraits by an artist from this modern-day country include one of a bearded woman breastfeeding and one of a grinning clubfooted boy. An artist from here painted a dead St. Serapion hanging by his arms. A style of still-life set in the kitchen called bodegón evolved in this country. Yet another artist from this country showed Nicolas Pertusato poking a dog with his leg. That artist from this country showed (*) Justinus van Nassau handing over keys in his Surrender of Breda, and another of that artist's paintings includes a selfportrait of the artist at his easel, two dwarfs, and several maids of honor. For 10 points, name this home of Jose de Ribera, Francisco de Zurbaran, and the artist of Las Meninas, Diego Velazquez.
In some cases, performing this operation on a B-Tree requires elements to be partitioned according to a median and then split. In a Red-Black Tree, this operation is followed by at most two additional tree rotations. Geometric expansion is used to ensure that this operation has an amortized constant time in Java's ArrayList. A sorting algorithm named for this operation considers the element at position i in the loop and then sequentially swaps that element with any (*) already sorted entries in the array that it is less than. After performing this operation with a node X in a linked list, the head may now point to X. This operation is equivalent to a push in Java's Stack implementation. For 10 points, name this operation of adding an item to a data structure.ANSWER: insertion [or inserting at the end of a list; or adding an item to a data structure or push until mentioned; do not accept things like "creating a new object"] <Bentley>
Francois-Charles de Bourlamaque unsuccessfully tried to blow up this location while commanding it. After an uncontested surrender of this location, Philip Schuyler and Arthur St. Clair were court-martialed. Legendarily, a man shouted "come out you old rat!" to Captain William Delaplace at this location, followed by a demand to surrender "in the name of the Great Jehovah and the (*) Continental Congress." After a military engagement at this location, Seth Warner led a raid on Crown Point. Henry Knox transported cannons from this location in winter to help relieve the siege of Boston. For 10 points, name this fort at Lake Champlain, New York, that was seized by Ethan Allen's Green Mountain Boys in 1776.ANSWER: Fort Ticonderoga [or Fort Carillon] <Cheyne>
This author invented the proscription in English against preposition stranding while objecting to a sentence written by Ben Jonson. In a play by this author, Rodophil and his wife Doralice are having affairs with, respectively, Melantha and her fiancé Palamede; meanwhile, Leonidas overthrows the usurper Polydamas and marries the princess Palmyra. Nahum Tate likely completed the second part of a poem by this author in which the two (*) Biblical title characters represent the Duke of Monmouth and the Earl of Shaftesbury. This author of Marriage a la Mode was heavily influenced by Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra in the production of his heroic drama All for Love. For 10 points, name this Restoration-era Poet Laureate who wrote Mac Flecknoe and Absalom and Achitophel.ANSWER: John Dryden <Carson>
The Wallace Collection holds a Francois Boucher (boo-SHAY) painting of this character held captive, and Boucher also included two swans in a painting of this character being disarmed. Caravaggio showed this character trampling a suit of armor, a compass, and other symbols of civilization in a Virgil-inspired painting of him "victorious." A statue of this character raises a finger to his lips in a sign of silence, while a man (*) looking up a lady's dress reclines against that statue, in Fragonard's The Swing. This character shares an incestuous kiss with his mother in a painting where the fourth title figure pulls back a curtain to expose them. For 10 points, name this god who appears with Folly, Time, and Venus in a Bronzino painting, the god of love.ANSWER: Cupid [or Eros; or Amor] <Rosenberg>
The London Charter established the laws and procedures for an event that happened in this city. While serving as Gauleiter of Franconia, Julius Streicher published the Der Sturmer newspaper in this city. At an event in this city, 130 evenly-spaced anti-aircraft searchlights formed a "cathedral of light." A large prison complex adjoins Courtroom 600 in this city's Palace of Justice, where a proceeding was prosecuted by Robert (*) Jackson. The film Triumph of the Will by Leni Riefenstahl commemorates this city's large-scale rallies, where in 1935 a law forbidding marriage between Germans and Jews was introduced. Hermann Goering killed himself to avoid the death sentence he received here. For 10 points, name this German city where the Nazi war crime trials took place.ANSWER: Nuremberg [or Nurnberg] <Bentley>
A man in this novel cries when he sees an advertisement for toffee being spelled out by an airplane. In this novel, a woman prays in Westminster Abbey after her student leaves to wait for an omnibus and meets an old friend who had "five enormous boys" with Lord Rosseter. Its protagonist's daughter is tutored by a woman who wears a bulky mackintosh and is a fanatical born-again Christian. Sally (*) Seton and Peter Walsh are among the guests of a dinner party in this novel that is interrupted by a man who avoids Dr. Holmes by jumping from a window. This novel's title character, the wife of Richard, shares a psychiatrist with World War I veteran Septimus Smith. For 10 points, name this stream-of-consciousness novel about Clarissa, written by Virginia Woolf.ANSWER: Mrs. Dalloway <Yu> - Page 2 of 13 5. One of this man's books claims that long-run expectations could not be quantified and were driven more by "animal spirits" than rational weighing of risks. One mathematical model based on this man's most influential book explains shifts in aggregate demand and was developed by Hicks and Hansen. That book by this man inspired the IS-LM model and rejected the idea that that supply creates its own demand and argued that an economy with full (*) employment was really a special case. This man attacked the Treaty of Versailles in The Economic Consequences of the Peace and argued for government spending to boost demand during depressions. For 10 points, name this British father of modern macroeconomics who wrote The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.
This statement is applied separately to each component in multicomponent analysis. NanoDrop devices use this law to calculate the 260/280 ratio of DNA and proteins. This law can be written as I equals Inought times the exponential of negative alpha times density times distance. A correction factor is added to this equation if turbidity is present. A parameter in this law has units of inverse molar times inverse centimeters. A calibration curve and a (*) blank are usually used to standardize before this law is applied, often to find the optimal wavelength. The cuvette path length in this law multiplies the extinction coefficient and concentration to give absorbance. For 10 points, name this law which governs spectrophotometers.7. When the Soviet Union's national soccer team refused to travel to this nation, its dictator ordered its team to take the field anyways, leading them to score 11 times into an open goal. A leader of this nation was revealed to have accepted a shipment of weapons in the Cuban packages scandal. A dissident from this country, Orlando Letelier, was killed by a car bomb in Washington D.C. A leader of this country was supported by the Schneider Doctrine and was the subject of the CIA's Project Fubelt. It implemented free (*) market policies under the guidance of a group of economists called the Chicago Boys. The "Caravan of Death" was created in this nation after a 1973 coup. For 10 points, name this South American country where Salvador Allende was overthrown by Augusto Pinochet.ANSWER: Republic of Chile <Weiser>
Leonard Bernstein called this composer's ninth symphony the "anti-Ninth" due to its humor compared to most other ninth symphonies. The six movements of this composer's last string quartet are all played adagio. Much controversy exists over the authenticity of his "memoirs" as related by Solomon Volkov in the book Testimony. This composer represented himself in his eighth (*) string quartet using the notes D – E-flat – C – B, and one of his symphonies is a setting of a poem by Yevgeny Yevtushenko. He composed fifteen string quartets as well as fifteen symphonies, the seventh of which uses an ostinato which may represent Hitler's invasion. For 10 points, name this Soviet composer of the "Leningrad" and "Babi Yar" Symphonies.ANSWER: Dmitri Shostakovich <Rosenberg>
In one of these people's myths, a thief opens nested bronze, iron, sycamore, ivory, silver, and a gold boxes to access an all-powerful book. These people believed that a frog-headed goddess breathes life into a newborn after her husband spins them on his potter's wheel. The chief god of this people mixes red dye with beer to prevent a lion-headed goddess from destroying (*) humanity, and is cowed by the lewd dancing of his daughter into revealing his own name. In their most extensive myth, a goddess reassembles her husband from the fourteen pieces of his body. Because it is Bast's animal form, these people considered cats sacred. For 10 points, name this people, whose falcon-headed god Horus ensured the divinity of the pharaoh.ANSWER: ancient Egyptians <Gupta> - Page 3 of 13 10. Drugs like cetirizine and loratidine are primarily used to treat this condition. Despite its name, this condition does not actually occur in a non-phototoxic, non-irritant form of contact dermatitis. This nonparasitic condition is mediated by the binding of IgE to Fc epsilon receptors, and is also known as a type I hypersensitivity response. This condition occurs in atopic forms of syndromes like (*) asthma. Anaphylaxis is a serious, life-threatening form of this condition, which can be determined by skin prick or patch testing with substances like metals and food additives. A form of rhinitis in which this condition occurs is known as hay fever, and is caused by pollen. For 10 points, name these immune responses to normally harmless substances.
It's not Orthodox Christianity, but the Supreme Patriarch is the head of this major religious branch in one country, where illicitly-ordained women known as mae ji face discrimination. The "Forest Tradition" within this branch forsakes scriptural study for wilderness asceticism. The insight meditation, or vipasanna, movement in this tradition advocates focusing on the three marks of existence. This branch holds up the (*) arahant as an ideal, and stresses that it is nearly impossible for laypeople to become them. In this tradition, the Vinaya, Sutta, and Abhidhamma Pitakas, or "baskets," make up the Pali Canon, or Tripitaka. For 10 points, name this "Way of the Elders," a branch of Buddhism predominant in Southeast Asia, but with fewer practitioners than Mahayana.ANSWER: Theravada Buddhism [or Hinayana Buddhism; prompt on Thai Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism] <Gupta>
In this novel, a man's purchase of Ralf von Maiboom's crops is ruined when the crops are destroyed by hail. Late in this novel, a boy makes friends with Kai Molin and is criticized by the fiery Pastor Pringsheim. A woman in this novel marries Permaneder after getting divorced from Herr Grunlich, the father of her daughter Erica. In this book, Christian goes to (*) South America and disdains working with his brother, who marries the music-loving Gerda and is named Thomas. Other characters in this novel include the central family's lone daughter, Tony, and a sickly boy who dies from typhoid, named Hanno. For 10 points, name this novel about a merchant family in Lubeck inspired by the family of its author, Thomas Mann.ANSWER: Buddenbrooks: The Decline of a Family [or Buddenbrooks: Verfall einen Familie] <Sy>
Experts on this non-U.S. country's legal system include NYU Law professor Jerome Cohen. Many articles about this present-day country's politics note a steady shift toward so-called "collective leadership" from its First Generation through its current Fifth Generation. Every November 11th, this country celebrates "Singles' Day", which has become a major sales day for online retailers. In May 2013 the S.E.C. began investigating J.P. Morgan's "Sons and Daughters" program, which hired this country's (*) "Princelings". Its popular WeChat messaging app was developed by Tencent, the owner of the web portal QQ. This country is also the origin of the online retailer Alibaba and microblogs known as weibo. For 10 points, name this country with a "One Child" policy.ANSWER: People's Republic of China [or Zhongguo; or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo] <Wang>
The line "A cold coming we had of it" opens a poem by this man in which the speaker asks "were we led this way for/ Birth or Death?" That poem's line "no longer at ease here, in the old dispensation" inspired the title of a Chinua Achebe novel. "Three white leopards sat under a juniper-tree" in a poem by this man that begins with the statement "Because I do not hope to (*) turn again." This poet of "Journey of the Magi" wrote "this is the dead land/ this is the cactus land" in a poem that ends by claiming "this is the way the world ends/ not with a bang but with a whimper." For 10 points, name this American-born poet who defended his conversion to Anglicanism in "Ash Wednesday" and wrote "The Hollow Men".ANSWER: T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot; accept "Journey of the Magi" until "this man" is read] <Weiser> - Page 4 of 13 15. This philosopher referred to the consistent conjunction of virtue and happiness using Cicero's term summum bonum, or highest good. Before G.E. Moore or Wittgenstein, he pointed out the leftness of a free-floating left hand to rebut "dogmatism" about absolute space, arguing instead that space and time are "forms of pure intuition" within the mind along with twelve (*) "categories of the understanding." In his attempt at a "Copernican revolution in metaphysics," this transcendental idealist argued that statements such as "7 + 5 = 12" can be deduced from simpler propositions without any empirical experience, showing that synthetic a priori truths are possible. For 10 points, name this Prussian Enlightenment-era philosopher who wrote Critique of Pure Reason.
This quantity must be the same for each component of an apochromatic triplet. In one approximation, the reciprocal of this quantity equals the index of refraction, minus one, times the difference in the reciprocals of two radii. The inverse of this quantity is measured in diopters and is referred to as power. This quantity is divided by the diameter of the pupil in order to calculate a namesake stop. This quantity, over this quantity minus the distance to the (*) object, gives the magnification. This quantity equals half the radius of curvature for a concave mirror. An object placed outside this distance for a convex lens produces an inverted, real image. For 10 points, name this quantity, the distance from the lens to the point where the light rays converge.ANSWER: focal length [or f; prompt on partial answer] <Silverman>
Queen Teuta expressly endorsed this activity by law before she lost in the Illyrian Wars. While ruling Samos as tyrant, Polycrates was accused of sending out hundreds of penteconters to engage in this activity. According to Suetonius, a teenage Julius Caesar made good on an offhand joke by returning to crucify dozens of people who did this at Pharmacusa. The Lex Gabinia tried to counter this activity during the 1st century BCE. (*) Cilicia was a base for people who partook in this activity in what's now Turkey. After helping subdue the slave revolt of Spartacus, Pompey the Great got expanded proconsular powers to rid the Mediterranean of this activity. For 10 points, name this illegal activity which threatened ancient shipments.ANSWER: piracy [or being a pirate; or kidnapping; or abduction; prompt on answers such as robbery, theft, naval raid, kidnapping, sailing, etc.] <Jackson>
A museum dedicated to this site but not located on it was designed by Bernard Tschumi and features a rotated top floor in order to align with it instead of the street grid. A colonnaded trapezoid at this site was the urban auxiliary to a structure in Brauron. The Sacred Way from Eleusis ended at a gate guarding the buildings here, which was called the Propylaea. One structure on this site included sculptures of women serving as columns on its (*) Porch of the Caryatids, and another building at this site of the Erechtheion includes a frieze depicting a civic procession. This main building on this site was designed by Iktinos and Kallikrates and was formerly home to the Elgin marbles. For 10 points, name this high outcropping in Athens that is the site of the Parthenon.ANSWER: the Acropolis of Athens <Mehigan>
An infinite version of this shape is the only non-trivial line bundle of the circle. Gluing a disk to this figure gives the real projective plane. Repeatedly dividing up this shape will give rise to paradromic rings. Like the torus, this surface, which is commonly pictured embedded in three-dimensional space, has Euler characteristic zero. It is the simplest (*) non-orientable surface. Two of these shapes are formed by cutting a Klein bottle in half. This shape is often used in conveyor belts, because it allows them to have uniform wear without ever having to be flipped inside out. For 10 points, identify this strange surface with only one side, which can be formed by taping together the ends of a paper rectangle after giving it a twist.ANSWER: Mobius strip <Schindler> - Page 5 of 13 20. One division of this organization was mockingly referred to as “Wisner’s Group of Weirdos”. John F. Kennedy reportedly said that he would splinter this organization “into a thousand pieces and scatter it into the wind.” The Family Jewels report documented some of this organization’s actions. Kermit Roosevelt was employed by this organization to arrange Operation (*) Ajax, in which this organization helped to overthrow Mohammed Mossadegh. Allen Dulles was the longest serving director of this agency that was the successor of the William Donovan-led Office of Strategic Services. For ten points, name this US government agency that is responsible for conducting foreign intelligence.
This series uses Bernice Reagon's a cappella rendition of "We Are Climbing Jacob's Ladder" as a recurring musical theme. In its first installment, Paul Roebling reads a letter ending "think I am gone and wait for me, for we shall meet again" as a Jay Ungar piece plays. Horton Foote and Sam Waterston provide voice-overs for this series, which popularized Sullivan Ballou's final letter to his wife and the composition "Ashokan Farewell." This series features interviews with (*) Shelby Foote and narration by David McCullough. It brought fame to the director's namesake "effect," which in this series zoomed and panned across many historical photographs by Matthew Brady. For 10 points, name this documentary series directed by Ken Burns about a 19th century American conflict.ANSWER: The Civil War <Weiser>
In engineering, the Newton number is defined as this quantity over density times rotational speed cubed times stirred diameter to the fifth. The integral of the Poynting vector over an exposed surface has units of this quantity, which can be used to show that it equals two-third times charge squared times acceleration squared over the speed of light cubed. The "reactive" form of this quantity in an AC circuit, caused by a nonzero phase angle, is measured in (*) volt-amps. The pump head times the volumetric flow rate equals this quantity. This quantity is given by the dot product of net torque and the resulting angular velocity, analogous to its definition of force dot velocity. For 10 points, name this quantity, the energy input per unit time to a system.ANSWER: power <Silverman>
A character in this play claims to have been offered a job at a nightclub in Berlin before rhapsodizing about a concert he supposedly once gave. Several characters in this play worry about the appearance of a large vehicle containing a wheelbarrow. Its central character is barraged with questions like "Why do you force that old man out to play chess?" and "Why did you betray the organization?" During a game of (*) blind man's bluff, the central character of this play attempts to strangle a woman who'd previously given him a drum and also attacks Lulu. This play is set in a boarding house near London owned by Petey and Meg Boles. For 10 points, name this play in which Goldberg and McCann take Stanley away after the title celebration, the second by Harold Pinter.ANSWER: The Birthday Party <Cheng>
A suite by this composer includes an often-omitted part for an ad lib baritone soloist used in places such as its second-movement "Romance." This composer included a "Battle on the Ice" in a seven-movement cantata for a mezzo-soprano soloist, which he adapted from his own score to a 1938 film. He wrote the score to a film about a fictional military officer created from a typing error, from which he extracted a suite that includes a fourth-movement (*) "Troika." This composer of Alexander Nevsky and Lieutenant Kije wrote a piece that uses a trio of horns to depict the second title character, whom a narrator describes as being roped by the tail and carried off to a zoo. For 10 points, name this composer of Peter and the Wolf.ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev [Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev] <Kim>
Derek Parfit melded this number of ethical theories into one in his 2011 book On What Matters. A theory about knowledge opposed in a 1966 paper by Edmund Gettier has this many criteria for establishing that "S knows P". In an allegory about Chinese philosophies, this many people taste vinegar and all have different reactions. The soul is divisible into this many parts according to Plato's Republic. The "positive (*) stage" comes last in a model of this many societal stages proposed by Auguste Comte. Hegel's dialectic is often erroneously divided into this many stages. For 10 points, give this number of Critiques written by Immanuel Kant, also the number of propositions in a classical syllogism that has a major premise, a minor premise, and a conclusion.ANSWER: three [or 3] <Jackson>
After dying, a character in this novel opens an eye and shudders when he sees the priest anointing him with oil. At the Governors' Ball in this novel, that character explains that "free-thinking women are all monsters", before visiting such a woman at Nikolskoe ("nee-kol-sko-ye") and offering her a chemistry textbook. Another character in this novel moves to Maryino after losing Princess (*) R, and winds up falling in love with his brother's maidservant. Two characters marry Katya and Fenichka in this novel, while another character saves a sick peasant from typhus, but accidentally infects himself, and reunites with Anna Sergeyevna Odintsova on his deathbed. For 10 points, name this novel about Arkady Kirsanov and his nihilistic friend Bazarov, written by Ivan Turgenev.ANSWER: Fathers and Sons [or Fathers and Children; or Ottsy i Det] <Silverman>
.The Birmingham Temple in Michigan was established by a rabbi with this surname, the founder of Humanistic Judaism. The Chaldeans, the Medes, the Greeks, and the Romans are each represented by a serving of this substance. It is permissible for non-observant Jews to handle the mevushal type of this substance. The words "boreh p'ri ha-gafen" are said during the kiddush blessing, recited over this substance during the Friday night of (*) Shabbat. For each of the ten plagues, a drop of this substance is spilled during the seder. It's not matzo, but Manischewitz supplies most of the "kosher" type of this substance. For 10 points, name this alcoholic beverage important to many Jewish rituals.ANSWER: grape wine [or grape juice; prompt on alcohol; prompt on juice] <Gupta> - Page 2 of 13 5. Leonard Dawe was suspected of leaking information about this event due to the answer selection of his Daily Telegrapher crossword. To spread disinformation before this event, numerous dummy aircraft and airfields were created as part of Operation Fortitude. Its perpetrators modified large numbers of tanks with extendable ramps, flotation screens, or flamethrowers, known as Hobart's (*) Funnies. Artificial Mulberry harbors were developed for this event, which fortuitously happened when Erwin Rommel was on leave for his wife's birthday. The "Atlantic Wall" was challenged by this event, which took place at sites nicknamed Sword, Gold, Juno, Utah, and Omaha. For 10 points, name this June, 6, 1944 Allied invasion of Europe.
The architecture firm Populous receives most of its business by designing this kind of building. Eduardo Souto de Moura integrated the rock wall of a quarry into his design for one of these buildings in Braga, Portugal. A two-layered building of this kind was inspired by crazed pottery and features a red concrete main structure surrounded by an irregular steel mesh. That building was a collaboration between (*) Herzog & de Meuron and Ai Weiwei. A building of this type gave a new name to ChemGrass, which was used there because that building featured a domed roof. These buildings include one in Beijing is nicknamed the "Bird's Nest," as well as the Houston Astrodome. For 10 points, name these buildings where spectator sports are played.ANSWER: stadiums [or arenas; anti-prompt on soccer stadiums or football stadiums or ballparks or similar] <Mehigan>
A classic example of this operation exploits the principle of locality of reference in a matrix multiplication algorithm. When performing this operation for C, one might first pass the -pg flag to gcc and then use a tool such as gprof. Loop unrolling is an example of this operation that would be automatically performed by a compiler. A way to perform this operation is to move disk reads to (*) cached in-memory reads. This operation is typically performed by a programmer after using a profiling tool which identifies the program's bottlenecks. For 10 points, name this practice of improving the speed of an algorithm or program.ANSWER: program optimization [or software optimization; or algorithm optimization; or profiling until it is read] <Bentley>
The precedent set in the case of United States v. Sullivan eventually sealed this man's fate. This man was betrayed by a letter written by his lawyer Lawrence P. Mattingly and a document unearthed by Frank Wilson. This one-time member of the Brooklyn Rippers made an enemy of mayor "Big Bill" Thompson. This man once set up a business selling antiques in the Anton Hotel in Cicero. This man's (*) nickname came from an injury incurred while working in the Harvard Inn for Frankie Yale. Subordinates of this man put over 150 bullets into members of Bugs Moran's gang during the St. Valentine's Day Massacre. This gangster was eventually jailed for tax evasion. For 10 points, name this Chicago gangster known as "Scarface".ANSWER: Al Capone [or Alphonse Gabriel Capone; prompt on Scarface] <Bentley>
This poet wrote about a woman who is disappointed when she doesn't find "marble well-governed cities" and "athletes at their games" among the scenes forged into a poem's title object. This man, who collaborated with Chester Kallman on the libretto for Stravinsky's The Rake's Progress, claimed that "I and the public know" that "Those to whom evil is done / Do evil in return" in a poem whose speaker sits "in one of the (*) dives on Fifty-second Street". Another of his poems laments "I thought that love would last for ever: I was wrong" in describing a man whose death prompts the instruction "Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone". For 10 points, name this Anglo-American poet of "The Shield of Achilles", "Funeral Blues", and "September 1, 1939".ANSWER: W.H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden] <Cheng> - Page 3 of 13 10. Guidepost cells direct and organize these structures. By binding to plexins, semaphorins direct the movement of these structures. In these structures, microtubules and F-actin at the "growth cone" move toward positive stimuli. The Hodgkin-Huxley model was formulated from data taken from the "giant" structure of this kind in squid. The last site of summation prior to this structure occurs at its namesake (*) "hillock." Saltatory conduction takes place at naked sites along this structure known as Nodes of Ranvier. Either oligodendrocytes or Schwann cells supply a substance that insulates these structures. They terminate at synapses. For 10 points, name these often-myelinated long parts of neurons, contrasted with dendrites.
A Samuel Huntington book analyzes the professionalization of this institution since the 17th century. The Human Terrain System was criticized by anthropologists for its connections to this institution. The May 15th Incident is an example of gekokujo, or overthrowing one's superiors, within this institution in Japan. The first clause of Article Two Section Two of the Constitution gives the President (*) control over this institution. Dwight Eisenhower's Farewell Address warns of a complex created through the alliance of industry with this institution. In the United States, this institution is subject to civilian control. For 10 points, name this institution controlled in the US by the Department of Defense that includes branches like the Coast Guard, Marines, and Army.ANSWER: the military [or armed forces; accept answers like United States Armed Forces; accept army but do not accept any other branches of the military; do not accept "Department of Defense" or "the Pentagon"] <Kothari>
The proceeds from the first Washington state screening of Gone With the Wind were forwarded to civilians in this war in an initiative organized by Herbert Hoover. This war began after the attacking side shelled its own village of Mainila in a false flag operation. At the end of this war, the losing side leased the Hanko Peninsula as a naval base. The losing side of this war annihilated a much larger force with the help of (*) ski troopers at the Battle of Suomussalmi, and employed the "White Death," the most successful sniper in world history. It was followed by the Continuation War, and it began when the aggressors crossed the incomplete Mannerheim Line and entered the Isthmus of Karelia. For 10 points, name this 1939 to 1940 war between the Soviet Union and Finland.ANSWER: Winter War [or Talvisota; or Vinterkriget] <Wang>
Six root two, times pi to the three halves, over the natural logarithm of the namesake parameter of these systems is used to calculate the Coulomb collision time. The magnetic diffusivity is used in the Reynolds number for these systems. Filaments in these systems get pinched inward due to external magnetic fields. Although these systems are (*) "quasi-neutral", redistribution of electrons in them forms an electrostatic sheath to screen out electric fields. Toroidal field lines are necessary to confine these substances stably, as in a tokamak. These extremely conductive substances can form when gas is ionized. For 10 points, name this "fourth" state of matter.ANSWER: plasmas [prompt on conductors] <Silverman>
For lying to this deity, Galanthis is turned into a weasel. Biton and Cleobis pull a cart for 45 stadia to a festival dedicated to this deity, who rewards them by allowing them to die in their sleep. This goddess transforms Lamia into a child-eating demon, and strikes Athamas with insanity, causing his wife Ino to leap into the ocean. This goddess loses a contest over whether men or women (*) enjoy sex more. A cloudlike imitation of this goddess named Nephele is the target of Ixion's affections. This goddess takes away Echo's voice, and orders the hundred-eyed watchman Argos to guard a cow that she later torments with a stinging gadfly because it is her husband's lover Io. For 10 points, name this jealous wife of Zeus.ANSWER: Hera [or Juno] <Kim> - Page 4 of 13 15. In a painting by this artist, one of the title characters sits in the shadow of a statue of Roma while clutching a paper edict as if in regret. That man stares at the viewer rather than at the stretcher behind the statue. In another of this artist's paintings, a man covers his eyes in anguish with his left hand, while passing along a goblet with his right. This artist of The (*) Lictors Bring to Brutus the Bodies of his Sons depicted Plato sitting dejectedly at the foot of a bed while his teacher points his left index finger skyward and prepares to consume hemlock. He also depicted three brothers saluting their father while their mother and sisters weep. For 10 points, name this painter of The Death of Socrates and Oath of the Horatii.
The patent case Diamond v. Chakrabarty greatly affected the law concerning these things. Ingo Potrykus and Peter Beyer worked to create another of these goods. Connecticut and Maine have passed laws to enforce new regulations on these things once enough other states pass similar bills. Vandana Shiva has linked these things to a rash of suicides in Maharashtra, India. In 2014, Vermont became the first state to pass a "right to know" law concerning these things; that bill caused a rift between Unilever and its subsidiary, (*) Ben & Jerry's. The designation "RoundUp-Ready" is given to many of these goods to indicate resistance to glyphosate. For 10 points, name this type of crop central to the business model of Monsanto, exemplified by Vitamin A-enriched Golden Rice.ANSWER: GMOs [or genetically modified organisms; or genetically modified crops; or GMO crops; or GMO plants; or GMO alfalfa] <Bentley>
A poem set in this city is about a woman who "whispered a song" to "Mal Waldron / and everyone and I stopped breathing". The author of "The Day Lady Died" and Lunch Poems was part of a "school" named for this city that also included the author of "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror". A long poem about a structure in this modern city includes sections titled "Ave Maria" and "Powhatan's Daughter". Frank O'Hara and John (*) Ashbery worked in this city, which is home to the title structure of Hart Crane's "The Bridge". Another landmark in this city displays the text of a sonnet called "The New Colossus" by Emma Lazarus. For 10 points, name this city, where the lines "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses" appear on the Statue of Liberty.ANSWER: New York City [or NYC] <Carson>
A large reorganization energy can make reactions of this type that are strongly exergonic enter an inverted region. Cofactor recycling is used in enzymatic catalysis of this type of reaction. These reactions can proceed via an inner-sphere or outer-sphere mechanism. These reactions are balanced for oxygen and hydrogen by adding water, then (*) protons, to each side. A reactivity series is used to determine if these reactions will occur, since they often result in single-displacements. Potassium permanganate is used as an indicator for these reactions. They only occur if the cell potential is positive, when modelled as half-reactions in galvanic cells. For 10 points, name this type of reaction which involves electron transfer.ANSWER: redox reactions [or reduction-oxidations; or oxidation-reductions; or electron transfer until it is read; prompt on reductions or oxidations specifically] <Silverman>
Prior to this event, its goals were advocated by the "zero networks," secret societies set up by the "Clan de Madame." The international response to this event was criticized in Shake Hands with the Devil, a memoir by the Canadian general Romeo Dallaire. Many participants in this event escaped via a controversial "safe zone" established by French forces in Operation Turquoise. It began after the RTLM (*) radio station issued the coded phrase "Cut down the tall trees" in response to the shooting down of President Juvenal Habyarimana's airplane. The Interahamwe militias primarily perpetrated this event, which forced millions of refugees into neighboring Zaire. For 10 points, name this 1994 mass killing of Tutsis by Hutus.ANSWER: Rwandan Genocide [or obvious equivalents] <Wang> - Page 5 of 13 20. A novel by this author repeatedly references a pair of pink teacups and contains a scene in which a crowd watches the installation of a red record player called a gumba-gumba. One of this author's title characters watches children play with guinea fowl eggs and discovers a magazine about homosexuality in his son's bag. Another of this author's protagonists is bothered by a Life (*) magazine photo depicting her childhood servant Lydia carrying her schoolbooks. The body of an unidentified man is buried at Mehring's farm in one novel by this author, while another ends with Maureen running after a helicopter and follows the Smales family, who take refuge in their servant's village. For 10 points, name this South African author of The Conservationist and July's People.
The Transact extension to this language introduces try/catch blocks, local variables, and other concepts taken from procedural languages. Although this language does not natively support regular expressions, the percent sign can be used for wildcard matching in it. The concepts of this language can be used in .NET languages through LINQ. This language was developed from the relational algebra defined by Ted (*) Codd. Filtering in this language is achieved by using the WHERE clause. Different tables can be combined in this language using the JOIN keyword. This language is used against entities which support the ACID guarantees in their rows and columns. For 10 points, name this programming language used to query databases.ANSWER: SQL ("sequel" or "S-Q-L") [or Structured Query Language] <Bentley>
Using Knuth's notation, this number can be written as 2, followed by 5 up arrows, followed by another2. For a set of this many mutually tangent circles, Descartes' theorem gives the radius of one of them given the rest. The only case of Fermat's last theorem actually proved by Fermat is when n equals this number. This is the smallest number of elements in a non-cyclic group; that group is named for Felix (*) Klein. This is the largest degree of polynomials for which there is a general solution, by the Abel-Ruffini theorem. Appel and Haken were assisted by a computer in proving that only this many colors were needed to color a map. This is the smallest number of vertices a Platonic solid can have. For 10 points, give this number of faces of a tetrahedron.ANSWER: four <Schindler>
Examples of these people include the kauwa in Hawaii. In 1962, about 300,000 of these people benefitted from the Ten-Point Program put forth by Faisal in Saudi Arabia. These people were helped by the Somerset case in England, and examples in Greece included the penestae of Thessaly. In South America, descendants of these people were the subject of a law named for a kind of (*) "womb." These people were helped by the passage of the Golden Law under Isabella, regent for Pedro II in Brazil. In England, a prominent critic of the treatment of these people was William Wilberforce. Article 4 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights outlaws the creation of these people. For 10 points, name these people, the subject of the Thirteenth Amendment, which emancipated them.ANSWER: slaves [or unfree people; prompt on serfs] <Bentley>
This group is represented by a dove in the Book of the Three Birds, written by a Welsh member of this group named Morgan Llwyd (HLOO-id). A member of this religious group adopted the pseudonym "Martin Marprelate" to pen a series of attacks against authorities. A thousand of them presented the king with the Millenary Petition, enabling them to receive a voice at the Hampton Court Conference. The mortal enemy of this religious group was William (*) Laud, the Archbishop of Canterbury. Between 1620 and 1640, large numbers of these people left England for Holland, though many were dissatisfied with their lives there. For 10 points, name these English Protestants who settled in New England, whose name is now synonymous with extreme straight-laced piety.ANSWER: Puritans [or Separatists; prompt on Protestants; prompt on Nonconformists; prompt on Dissenters] <Gupta>
This person once poisons a mantle richly decorated with precious stones, but the gift is not delivered since its bearer is burnt to coals. In another story, this person makes a replica of an object that protects its bearer from dying from blood loss, giving the real one to Sir Accalon of Gaul. This person is described peddling healing ointments at the wedding of Erec and Enide by Chretien de Troyes, who calls her a "chief physician." This unhappy wife of Urien gives her name to a (*) mirage seen off the coast of Sicily. She unsuccessfully competes for the affection of Lancelot with Guinevere. Along with Morgause, this woman is a daughter of Igraine and Gorlois, making her a half sister to Arthur. For 10 points, name this wicked sorceress in Arthurian myth.ANSWER: Morgan le Fey [or Morgane; or Morgaine; or Fata Morgana] <Gupta>
An annual festival devoted to this dance is held in the Finnish town of Seinajoki, which was hit by a worldwide craze over this dance in 1913. The International and American styles of this dance are characterized by an 8-count basic step. Music for this dance often features a bandoneón, a type of accordion imported from Germany. The French-born Carlos Gardel was its leading vocalist during the early 20th century, and its popular tunes include (*) "El Choclo" and "La Cumparsita," the latter of which is danced by Jack Lemmon in Some Like it Hot. Astor Piazzola blended it with jazz and classical music, and it was popularized in the U.S. by Rudolph Valentino in Four Horseman of the Apocalypse. For 10 points, name this partner dance from Argentina and Uruguay.ANSWER: tango <Rosenberg>
During the 1960 presidential campaign, a woman with this married name was telephoned by John F. Kennedy after her husband was jailed for driving with an out-of-state license. George Holliday videotaped a notorious action carried out against a man with this last name by Stacey Koon. A man with this surname gave the controversial speech, "Beyond Vietnam: A Time to Break Silence" in 1967. That same man never had a chance to organize a (*) Poor People's March after stopping over to support a strike by sanitation workers. The acquittal of police officers who beat a man with this surname sparked riots that damaged much of Koreatown in LA in 1992. For 10 points, give this surname shared by the man shot by James Earl Ray and who gave the "I Have a Dream" speech.ANSWER: King [or Coretta Scott King; or Rodney King; or Martin Luther King, Jr.]<Bentley> - Page 2 of 13 5. The metacentric point is the intersection of two vectors representing this force. This force is represented by the isothermal compressibility times temperature difference between surroundings and surface in the numerator of the Grashof number, which compares it to viscous forces. The magnitude of this force is assumed not to be constant in the Boussinesq approximation. In a gas, the neutral type of this force exactly balances (*) gravity. This force opposes the direction of the hydrostatic pressure gradient, and its magnitude equals the density times gravity times the volume of an object. The center of this force must be close to the center of gravity for a ship to be stable. For 10 points, name this force whose magnitude is equal to the weight of the fluid displaced and which causes objects to float.
A play by this author ends with a student warning the audience about the inescapability of sin after the main character reveals that the hyacinth girl is the daughter of the Colonel. Many of this author's chamber plays were staged in his "Intimate Theater". In another play by this man, the Officer spends years pining for the actress Victoria and visits Foulstrand and Fairhaven after rescuing Agnes, the daughter of (*) Indra. The reversal of power between the upper and lower classes is represented by Serena the canary's decapitation in a work by this author of A Dream Play and The Ghost Sonata. In that play by this man, the Count arrives shortly before the title character takes a razor from Jean to commit suicide. For 10 points, name this Swedish author of Miss Julie.ANSWER: August Strindberg [or Johan August Strindberg] <Smart>
A piano piece of this type in A minor begins with a four-bar lento fragment of the main theme before suddenly switching to allegro con brio for the rest of the piece. Claude Debussy's first book of these pieces is organized by intervals, and the first piece in that book was inspired by Carl Czerny. Franz Liszt wrote "Paysage" and "Feux Follets" as two of his (*) 12 exceedingly difficult "Transcendental" pieces of this type. Pieces of this type make up Frederic Chopin's Opus 10 and 25, which include ones nicknamed "Winter Wind" and "Tristesse," as well as a piece supposedly inspired by Poland's November Uprising, which is often called the "Revolutionary." For 10 points, name these pieces which focus on improving technique.ANSWER: etudes [or studies] <Rosenberg>
In geomelting, radioactive waste is turned into this type of material. Lyophilization of pharmaceuticals occurs at a temperature named for this material. At that temperature, polymers supercooled beyond the "rubber" state transition into a state named for this material. Sensitive pH electrodes are made out of this material. Primary network formers of this substance, like phosphorous oxide, have a decreased melting point because of fluxes, like (*) potash. Hydrofluoric acid reacts with this material to give silicon fluorides. Boric oxide is mixed into this material to prevent thermal expansion. It consists of amorphous silicon oxide. For 10 points, name this material used to make Pyrex beakers and flasks.ANSWER: glasses [or spin glasses; or glass transition temperature; or glass electrodes] <Silverman>
In 1688, an empire in what became this country executed the Greek-born missionary Constantine Phaulkon. The phrase "mai pen rai," which loosely means "No problem," is used commonly in this country, where dance dramas known as khon are based largely on foreign epics. This country allied with Japan and the Axis Powers on the same week as the Pearl Harbor attack. This country, the non-United Kingdom signatory of the (*) Bowring treaty, is home to biologically-male people who present as women called kathoey, or "ladyboys." The resort island of Phuket is off this country's portion of the Isthmus of Kra in the Andaman Sea. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian country led by King Rama IX, which Westerners once called Siam.ANSWER: Thailand [or Prathet Thai] <Jackson> - Page 3 of 13 10. A 2011 play about this character was produced in collaboration between Rokia Traore, Peter Sellars, and Toni Morrison. According to some historians, performing this role made Margaret Hughes the first professional actress in England. She mentions a "poor soul" who "sat sighing by the sycamore tree" while reciting a ditty learned from her mother's maid Barbara, her "willow song". This character is compared to a "white ewe" in a scene in which (*) Roderigo and another character wake her father Brabantio. Her handkerchief is picked up by Emilia, after which it is used to frame Michael Cassio in a scheme that results in this character being suffocated to death. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean character who is murdered after Iago dupes her husband Othello.
The founder of this movement was inspired to develop its style by the stained glass windows he made for the De Lange (LAHN-guh) House. It's not Cubism, but one member of this group created the abstract painting The Gray Tree after his more realistic The Red Tree. A house in this style has an upper floor which can be divided in three using sliding panels. That house was designed for the (*) Schröder Family by Gerrit Rietveld. Another member of this movement limited himself to mostly primary colors in a painting in which a yellow grid represents the streets of Manhattan. For 10 points, name this Dutch art movement which produced Broadway Boogie Woogie, and whose members included Theo van Doesburg and Piet Mondrian.ANSWER: De Stijl [or the Style or Neoplasticism] <Bentley>
Calvin Bridges sketched a specific type of these structures that contain diffuse regions called Balbiani rings and puffs. Many plants and fungi contain extra "B" examples of these structures. In a widely-used technique, G-banding stains these structures. The two arms of these structures are denoted with the letters "p" and "q." Salivary glands in Drosophila are home to over-sized, (*) "polytene" examples of these structures. Miller-Dieker syndrome and cri-du-chat are examples of abnormalities in these structures, called "aneuploidies." Three of these structures are present in trisomies like Down syndrome, and can be easily visualized in a karyotype. For 10 points, name these DNA-containing structures that humans have 23 pairs of.ANSWER: chromosomes [accept specific kinds, like polytene chromosomes and B chromosomes] <Gupta>
This leader spent three days in house arrest during an event masterminded by the "Gang of Eight." More than a hundred civilians were killed on Black January after this leader ordered an invasion of Baku. This leader encouraged small-scale private ownership with his Law on Cooperatives and urged economic acceleration with his slogan uskoreniye. Cartoonists often poked fun at the port wine-colored (*) birthmark on this leader's forehead. A coup against this man was defeated by his successor, who spoke from atop the turret of a tank. This leader withdrew his country's troops from Afghanistan and pursued the duel policies of "openness" and "restructuring." For 10 points, name this coiner of the terms glasnost and perestroika, the final leader of the Soviet Union.ANSWER: Mikhail Gorbachev [or Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev] <Gupta>
Bryan and Cox conducted influential work in modeling these things. A ground-breaking experiment that studied these things was the TOPEX satellite. Walter Munk's influential circulation model for these things built on the work of Sverdrup. Transgression and regression are eustatic changes for these structures. Curtis Ebbesmeyer, who studies these structures, found that a collection of (*) garbage moves in accordance with their gyres. Fridtjof Nansen discovered that wind stress on these things creates an Ekman spiral. Density gradients in these things are driven by the thermohaline circulation. The bottom of these things is bounded by the abyssal plain. For 10 points, name these bodies of water that include the Atlantic and Pacific.ANSWER: oceans [or seas; do not accept "lakes"] <Jose> - Page 4 of 13 15. One member of this family uses an analogy where if B picks up A's hat, B should not examine A's face for gratitude to explain why he does not expect his family to miss him, and requests books by authors like Guy de Maupassant in "Hapworth 16, 1924". Eloise Wengler regrets marrying her husband Lew rather than a member of this family named Walt. Lane Coutell dates a member of this family who repeats the (*) Jesus prayer over and over, and another member goes swimming at a beach with Sybil Carpenter before shooting himself. This family's members include Franny, Zooey, and Seymour, the last of whom appears in "Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenter" and "A Perfect Day for Bananafish". For 10 points, name this literary family created by J.D. Salinger.
Colin Turnbull depicted one culture from this landmass as callous and alienated in The Mountain People. Richard B. Lee's work on one culture on this landmass led Marshall Sahlins to use them as an example of "the original affluent society." One culture on this landmass tells the future using termites and a ritual called benge (BEN-gay). E. E. Evans-Pritchard studied this landmass's (*) Nuer and the Azande (uh-ZAN-dee) people. This continent is the origin of the L0 (L zero) haplogroup and Mitochondrial Eve. This continent is home to nearly all click languages. The multiregional origin hypothesis competes with one termed "outof-" this continent, where Lucy the fossil was discovered. For 10 points, name this continent where humans are thought to have originated that is south of Europe.ANSWER: Africa <Kothari>
Three statues of sacred oxen are located at a site in this empire's Roluos group of monuments. The people of this empire believed that its king spent every night with a nine-headed snake woman in a golden tower, according to Zhou Daguan's account of this empire. Raids on this kingdom by the Champas damaged its irrigation network, which used water tanks called (*) barays. This empire was preceded by the Funan Kingdom and the Chenla Kingdom. This empire was home to a site featuring many giant statues of smiling heads, Bayon. Several kings named Jayavarman and Suryavarman ruled this empire, which also built a massive temple complex designed to look like Mount Meru. For 10 points, name this Cambodian empire which built Angkor Wat.ANSWER: Khmer Empire [or Angkor Empire until "Angkor" is read; prompt on Kampuchea or Cambodia] <Brownstein>
One instance of this activity is performed until the first star is seen in the evening sky, and is called the "Paramony," or "Preparation." Some Pentecostals practice the particularly severe "Black" type. Isaiah 58:6-7 rebukes Israel for not performing the "acceptable" type of this activity by caring for the poor and oppressed. By preaching that this activity should not be mandatory, (*) Huldrych Zwingli kickstarted the Reformation in Switzerland. The four main seasons for this activity in Christianity include three named for the Dormition, the Nativity, the Apostles, and one starting on Ash Wednesday in which people often give up a luxury in lieu of performing this action. For 10 points, name this activity performed for forty days during Lent by not eating meat.ANSWER: fasting [or abstaining from food; or abstinence from food; or not eating; accept not eating meat and other answers specific to certain foods] <Gupta>
This mountain range is home to the exclave of Llivia, which was unintentionally created by a 17thcentury treaty ceding all of Llivia's surroundings. This mountain range was southwest of the historical border region of Septimania. The motto "Virtus unita fortior" appears on the coat of arms of a sovereign entity in this range, whose coat of arms shows the miter hat of its co-leader, the (*) Bishop of Urgell, in the upper-left. Five citadels known as the "Sons of Carcassonne" were built along this mountain range, where pilgrims to the Rosary Basilica honor the Lady of Lourdes. This range's Roncevaux Pass opens out near Basque country. For 10 points, name this mountain range home to Andorra, on the border between Spain and France.ANSWER: Pyrenees [or Pirineos] <Wang> - Page 5 of 13 20. A character in this novel leads a revolution aiming to smash all of his country's clocks in defiance of the Empress. A character in this novel is forced to eat his own excrement by the immigration officers Novak and Stein, and after he finally returns home he loses his job on The Aliens and finds his wife Pamela Lovelace having an affair. Dreams in this novel include one in which Ayesha leads a pilgrimage into the ocean and one in which (*) Jahilia is conquered by Mahound. Allie Cone is killed by a character in this novel who develops schizophrenia after surviving a fall from an exploding airplane. Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta are the main characters of, for 10 points, which novel, for which Ayatollah Khomeini declared a fatwa on its author Salman Rushdie?
During this campaign, William Scurry invented a self-firing "drip" rifle whose trigger was attached to a tin can. After the Battle of Scimitar Hill ended this campaign's failed August Offensive, Charles Monro replaced Ian Hamilton as Allied commander. At its beginning, minefields sank three Allied warships, prompting landings at Kum Kale and Cape Helles to clear surrounding artillery. It forced (*) Winston Churchill to resign as First Lord of the Admiralty and inflicted heavy casualties upon New Zealander and Australian forces, who are remembered on ANZAC Day. The Allied forces in this campaign were repelled by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. For 10 points, name this failed amphibious campaign against the Ottoman Empire in World War I.ANSWER: Gallipoli Campaign [accept anything that mentions Gallipoli; accept Dardanelles Campaign; accept Battle of Canakkale] <Wang>
Along with chlorophyll and three iron-sulfur proteins, a form of this compound serves as an early electron acceptor in photosystem I, and is known as phylloquinone. In animals, this compound serves as a cofactor for reactions that gamma-carboxylate glutamate receptors into Gla receptors. The epoxide form of this vitamin is reduced by an enzyme targeted by the drug (*) Warfarin. This vitamin, which is abundant in green leafy vegetables, is needed to activate factors II, VII, IX, and X, and along with vitamins A, D, and E, it is fatsoluble. Hematomas and bruising can result from a deficiency of this vitamin, which is symptomatically similar to hemophilia. For 10 points, name this vitamin important for blood clotting.ANSWER: Vitamin K [or phylloquinone before mentioned; or menaquinones] <Gupta>
In a Johann Wolfgang von Goethe work named for this genre, a ferryman refuses payment in gold and demands to be paid in vegetables instead. Andrew Lang produced books of twelve different colors which contained these works, including "Allerleirauh" (all-err-"lie"-rau). In one work of this type, members of the title group stand on top of each other to observe and foil a group of thieves in a cottage. In German, these works are called (*) märchen ("mare"-chen). In another work in this genre, the title characters are abandoned in the forest by their woodcutter father before they encounter an edible house. For 10 points, name this type of story, examples of which include "The Town Musicians of Bremen" and "Hansel and Gretel", which appear in a collection by the Brothers Grimm.ANSWER: fairy tales [or folk tales; accept Märchen before mention; do not accept "fables"] <Jose>
Alexander Kashlinsky used the term "dark flow" to describe an unexplained form of this quantity in galaxy clusters. The statistical dispersion of this quantity for an elliptical galaxy is related to its luminosity by the Faber-Jackson relation. This quantity's value relative to a rest frame is called the "peculiar" type of it, and it is not explained by (*) Hubble's Law. The change in this quantity is related to the logarithm of the initial mass divided by the final mass by the rocket equation. By setting the kinetic energy equal to the potential energy, one can derive the minimum value for this quantity for an object to escape from a body's gravitational field. For 10 points, name this quantity, the time derivative of position.ANSWER: velocity [or motion; or speed] <Jose>
During this conflict, Leon Chester Thrasher died on the Falaba. In this war, Ralph Van Deman helped organize groups like the Terrible Threateners into the American Protective League and people volunteered as "Four Minute Men" to make short propaganda speeches. The profitable munitions industry of this war was later investigated by the Nye Committee. During this war, the Committee on Public Information was led by (*) George Creel. The U.S. Food Administration was created during this war and was headed by Herbert Hoover. Charles Evans Hughes ran for president a year before America entered this war in response to the Zimmerman Telegram. For 10 points, Woodrow Wilson claimed that "he kept us out of" what war in his 1916 presidential campaign?ANSWER: World War I [or First World War; or WWI; or the Great War] <Wang>
Peptide bonds are reduced by this element in the Lowry assay for protein concentration. Complex IV of the ETC relies on iron and this element exchanging electrons. This element's tetraammine complex is colored indigo, making it a great detector for ammonia. The original high-temperature superconductors were oxides of this element. It only forms +1 and +2 oxidation states. This element and (*) zinc made up a Daniell cell, the prototypical galvanic cell. The standard for electrical conductivity is given relative to this element. This element reacts with carbonates to form verdigris. It alloys with both zinc and tin to make brass and bronze respectively. For 10 points, name this metal found right above silver and gold on the Periodic Table.ANSWER: copper [or Cu] <Silverman>
One of this author's characters receives an aquamarine bowl at a "house-heating" party where he is fired by Dr. Hagen. A character is misled by a magazine that misprints "mountain" as "fountain" in a story about a woman's near-death experience in one of his novels, while another features a recurring motif in which a hotel where the main characters sleep together and another character's play are among the things called a variant of "The (*) Enchanted Hunter". This author who wrote about an employee of Waindell College in Pnin also created Charles Kinbote, who believes himself to be the King of Zembla and provides commentary on a 999-line poem by John Shade. For 10 points, name this author of Pale Fire who wrote about Humbert Humbert in Lolita.ANSWER: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov] <Brownstein> - Page 2 of 13 5. In the Argonautica, Polydeuces kills the Bebrycian king Amycus with a pair of these objects made of cowhide. In the Aeneid, Entellus wins a contest using a cestus, an object of this kind. In the Gylfaginning, one of these objects owned by Utgard-Loki turns out to be the "great hall" in which Thor and his servants had experienced earthquakes during the night. A set of these objects had to be used because a gadfly sent by Loki distracted Brokkr and forced him to make a (*) weapon's handle much shorter than it should have been. The belt Megingjorth, a hammer, and a set of these objects named Jarngreipr are the most important possessions of the Norse god of thunder. For 10 points, name these items of clothing, an iron pair of which enables Thor to grasp Mjolnir.
The second section of this ballet begins with the strings playing persistent eighth-note double stops with shifting accents, all down-bow. With assistance from Millicent Hodson, the Joffrey Ballet reconstructed the original choreography from this ballet in 1987. During the story, a series of games is interrupted by the "Procession of the Wise Elder." In the final section of this ballet, which changes meter almost every measure, a (*) chosen victim dances herself to death. An unusually high bassoon solo opens this ballet, which closes with the "Sacrificial Dance." The adventurous music, combined with Vaslav Nijinsky's angular, forceful choreography, caused a riot on the night of the Paris premiere. For 10 points, name this ballet by Igor Stravinsky about pagan Russia.ANSWER: The Rite of Spring or Le Sacre du Printemps or Vesna svyashchennaya <Rosenberg>
Harry Pollitt was a leader of a movement urging non-intervention in this war, known as "Hands Off" the country where it took place. In this war's aftermath, the "Mad Baron" Roman von Ungern-Sternberg attempted to establish his own independent state to the south. In this war's eastern front, Alexander Kolchak declared himself "Supreme Ruler" shortly before he was imprisoned by the rebellious Czechoslovak Legion. The policy of "War (*) Communism" was implemented during this war. After the Allied intervention in this war petered out, Japanese forces continued to occupy Siberia. At a basement in the Ipatiev House in Yekaterinburg during this war, Nicholas II and his family were executed. For 10 points, name this 1917-22 war between White Army and the Bolshevik Red Army.ANSWER: Russian Civil War [or Grazhdanskaya voyna v Rossiy; prompt on Russian Revolution; prompt on October Revolution] <Wang>
This man was followed around without his consent by journalist Gay Talese for several months as Talese wrote an article for Esquire titled "[this man] Has a Cold". He re-recorded a version of the song "High Hopes" to support a presidential campaign. Gennadi Gerasimov compared one of this man's songs to the Soviet Union's abandonment of the Brezhnev Doctrine, leading to a (*) new Soviet diplomatic policy named for this man. After helping organize an Inaugural Gala, this musician had a falling out with President Kennedy due to his relationship with the American Mafia. Peter Lawford and Sammy Davis, Jr. joined him in an informal group of performers nicknamed the "Rat Pack." For 10 points, name this American singer of "Theme from New York, New York" and "My Way."ANSWER: Frank Sinatra [or Francis Albert Sinatra] <Weiser>
In the late 1950s, Lacey and Lacey's studies of responses to this phenomenon introduced the concept of "individual response-stereotypy." Modern understanding of this concept began in studies of a three-stage condition called GAS, or General Adaptation Syndrome, by Hans Selye (SEL-yay). The Social Readjustment Rating Scale measures the likelihood that this condition has been caused by major life events. It's not heart disease, but lower incidence of this thing distinguishes (*) "Type B" personalities from "Type A" personalities. The long-term type of this response results in release of the hormone cortisol. Lazarus and Folkman's first study of "coping responses" defined them as reactions to this condition. For 10 points, name this psychological response to disturbing stimuli.ANSWER: stress response <Jackson> - Page 3 of 13 10. A character in this novel complains to the Duchess of Monmouth that "the man who could call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one." This novel's preface states that "dislike of realism is the rage of Caliban upon seeing his own face" before stating "all art is quite useless." A sailor in this novel overhears a man being called "Prince Charming", though that man's (*) youthful face puts off the sailor's accusations that he was responsible for the suicide of the Shakespearean actress Sibyl Vane. The painter Basil Hallward is murdered by this novel's protagonist, who is mentored by Lord Henry Wotton. For 10 points, name this novel whose title portrait ages and becomes disfigured in place of its hedonistic subject, written by Oscar Wilde.
French Interior Minister Charles Pasqua was jailed for facilitating Pierre Falcone's arms shipments to this country. Secret U.S. military aid to this country was prohibited by the Clark Amendment. Cuban troops deployed to this country fought in the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale during a war interrupted by the Bicesse Accords. This country's northern border was home to Holden Roberto's FNLA during its war of independence. Its 26-year-long (*) civil war pitted Agostinho Neto's MPLA, which was mostly funded by oil revenue, against Jonas Savimbi's UNITA, which was mostly funded by the sale of diamonds. Eduardo dos Santos currently leads this country. For 10 points, name this African country, a former Portugese colony with a capital at Luanda.ANSWER: Angola [or Republic of Angola] <Wang>
Measuring this value for a semiconductor is done with a four-point probe and allows one to determine the concentration of impurities. A device first fabricated at HP Labs using a thin film of titanium dioxide has a value for this quantity that depends on the history of current in the device. After the turn-on voltage, an ideal diode has a value of zero for this quantity. An unknown value of this quantity can be found by setting up a diamond shape and adjusting until there's no voltage drop across the bridge, a method popularized by Charles (*) Wheatstone. This quantity is the real part of impedance. For a wire this quantity equals rho times length over cross-sectional area, where rho is the inverse of the conductivity. This quantity adds when its namesake circuit elements are placed in series. For 10 points, what quantity is equal to voltage divided by current, by Ohm's law?ANSWER: resistance [or R; or resistivity or rho until "impedance" is read] <Schindler>
This is the family name most commonly used to refer to the politician who tried to stop the repeal of a law banning female displays of wealth, the Lex Oppia, who shared the consulship with his mentor Lucius Valerius Flaccus, and wrote the Origines, the first prose history in Latin. This is also the family name of the politician who, after hearing about the Republican defeat at the Battle of Thapsus, committed suicide in Utica, and rallied the (*) Optimates in opposing the agricultural reforms pushed by Julius Caesar. The earlier Roman politician with this name ended every speech, no matter the topic, with the phrase "Carthago Delenda Est," meaning "Carthage must be destroyed." For 10 points, give this name shared by an Elder and Younger Roman Republic statesman.ANSWER: Cato [or Cato the Elder; or Cato the Younger; or Marcus Porcius Cato; or Marcus Porcius Cato Uticensis] <Gupta>
This mountain range is home to the shortest known viper, which grows to be just over a foot long, and to a species of gazelle named for naturalist George Cuvier. The Kabyle people, who build villages in a high section of these mountains, were studied by cultural sociologist Pierre Bourdieu. Ouarzazate is a city high in a western "Anti-" section of this range, whose easternmost portion is called the (*) Aurès region. The Ourika and Draa Rivers flow through part of this range, which is separated by the Sebou River from the Rif region to its northwest. This range's highest peak is Jebel Toubkal. The highlands south of this range contain the city of Marrakesh, which was founded by Berbers. For 10 points, name this mountain range spanning Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria.ANSWER: Atlas Mountains [accept Tell Atlas until "Anti-"] <Jose> - Page 4 of 13 15. In a posthumously published collection of this man's poems, Andrew Marvell attacked critics as "Word-peckers, Paper-rats," and "Book-scorpions". His poem addressed to Charles Cotton describes how "The joys of earth and air are thine entire". This author of "The Grasshopper" ended another poem with the couplet "I could not love thee, Dear, so much, / Loved I not honor more". "Enlarged wings that curl the flood" and "fishes that (*) tipple in the deep" are among the things that "know no such liberty" according to a poem by this man that also includes the famous line "Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage". For 10 points, name this Cavalier poet of "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars" and "To Althea from Prison".
An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of this compound has erythrocyte, liver, and muscle isoforms, and is deficient in a condition that creates "burr cells." An oxidized lipoate species with a "swinging arm" is attacked by an anionic carbon in a TPP cofactor in the three-enzyme complex that dehydrogenates this compound. This compound's carboxylase catalyzes the formation of oxaloacetate in the first step of (*) gluconeogenesis. In anaerobic conditions, NAD+ can be regenerated by converting this compound to lactate. In respiration, this compound is made into acetyl-CoA, which then enters the citric acid cycle. For 10 points, name this three-carbon compound that is the end-product of glycolysis.ANSWER: pyruvate [or pyruvic acid] <Gupta>
The instigator of this event describes angels that "lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone." After this event ends, it is noted that "angels came and attended" its subject. Milton's Paradise Regained dramatizes this event from the Gospel of Luke, which ends when its subject declares "Do not put the Lord your God to the test." The narrative of this event immediately follows that of the (*) baptism of Jesus, and occurs after Jesus spends forty days fasting in the desert. During this event, Jesus is instructed to turn stones into bread, to leap off of the highest point of the temple, and to bow down and worship the devil. For 10 points, identify this event in which the devil attempts to influence Jesus to sin.ANSWER: the temptation of Jesus Christ [or answers akin to the testing of Jesus; prompt on Jesus in the desert for forty days or similar answers before "forty days" is read] <Kim>
This author opened a critical guide to appreciating literature with the "parable of the sunfish". He reused the meter from his translation of The Seafarer to create a version of the nekuia from the Odyssey for a poem that precedes one in which the speaker tells Robert Browning to "hang it all" because "there can be but the one Sordello". This author of The ABC of Reading wrote about a man whose "true (*) Penelope was Flaubert" and who seeks to "resuscitate the dead art of poetry" in his poem "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley". Sections named for John Adams, Pisa, and a "Rock-Drill" are included in a collection by this author, whose study of Chinese characters inspired his development of Imagism. For 10 points, name this fascist American poet of The Cantos.ANSWER: Ezra Pound [or Ezra Weston Loomis Pound] <Carson>
As an outlet for his work, this composer founded a namesake ensemble comprised of three keyboards, some winds, and a soprano who generally only sings solfege. This composer wrote the score to a film in which the liftoff of a Saturn V rocket is followed by footage of an Atlas rocket exploding; an earlier section of that score contains the song "Pruitt Igoe." (*) Time-lapse images comprise much of that film titled after the Hopi word for "life out of balance." This composer wrote a "Portrait Trilogy" of operas and, along with Steve Reich, John Adams, and Terry Riley, is one of the major American minimalists. For 10 points, name this composer of the score for Koyaanisqatsi and the opera Einstein on the Beach.ANSWER: Philip Glass [or Philip Morris Glass] <Rosenberg> - Page 5 of 13 20. A recent exhibit of this artist's "Regrets" at the MoMA was inspired by a beat-up photo of Lucian (LOO-see-un) Freud owned by Francis Bacon. He exhibited his Number Paintings with Leo Castelli after being discovered in Robert Rauschenberg's studio. The names of loosely delineated states are stenciled onto his painting Map. A canvas by this artist, with five-inch-thick paint, plays with perspective so that the closest of the three superimposed objects appears smallest. That thick paint was made with (*) encaustic, which this artist also employed in his paintings of targets surrounded by plaster casts. His first painting of a recurring subject features 48 stars on a blue field, increased to 50 in later versions. For 10 points, name this American Pop artist of Three Flags.
This woman is advised to remain silent while passing old women weaving and a lame man driving a mule laden with sticks, and has sleep extracted from her face and placed in a box. This woman births the goddess of sensual pleasure, a companion of the Graces named Voluptas. This woman, whose story was first told in Apuleius's The Golden Ass, slips from a dragon-infested cliff from which black water pours, lets briers collect the golden (*) wool of the Sun, and receives a crust of bread after accepting the aid of insects who sort a huge pile of grains for her. Her envious sisters convince her to sneak in a lamp to a liaison with her lover, betraying her promise to never look upon his face. For 10 points, name this nemesis of Venus, a woman who falls in love with Cupid.ANSWER: Psyche <Gupta>
In one novel written in this language, the death of Colonel Delmare causes Ralph to abandon the suicide pact made with his lover Indiana. Another novel written in this language ends with the protagonist's severed head being buried in a cave inside of which is a shrine made of marble. One author who wrote in this language wrote A Winter in Majorca, which recounts her passionate affair with a (*) composer. This language was used to write a novel in which the son of a woodcutter falls in love with Mathilde de la Mole and struggles between choosing the army or the clergy. That novel in this language, which depicts the rise and fall of Julien Sorel, is The Red and the Black. For 10 points, name this language used by George Sand and Stendhal..ANSWER: French [or Francais] <Jose>
William Pitt the Younger unsuccessfully pursued an armament policy against this country as part of the Triple Alliance. This country warmly received the explorer Richard Chancellor. Ramsay MacDonald's Labor Party lost the 1924 general election in part due to a controversial and probably forged letter written by a government official from this country. Its navy accidentally fired on some British fishing vessels in the (*) Dogger Bank incident. In the Great Game, this country and the United Kingdom vied for supremacy of Central Asia. In the 16th century, this country granted trade privileges to England at its port of Arkhangelsk. For 10 points, name this country that opened trade relations with England during the reign of Ivan the Terrible.ANSWER: Russia [or the Soviet Union or USSR] <Bentley>
The Polish officer Jozef Kosacki invented a portable counter to these weapons that was first used at the Battle of El Alamein. In 1976 Christopher Ewart-Biggs, the British Ambassador to Ireland, was killed by one of these weapons. The United States, Russia and China are non-signatories to the 1997 Ottawa Treaty aiming to eliminate some of these weapons. The Belgian-based APOPO uses (*) rats to counter these weapons in Africa. The Buffalo and the Casspir MRAPs employ a V-Hull to protect against these weapons. The special-edition comic book Superman: Deadly Legacy warns about their dangers in Bosnia. Naval warships called "sweepers" protect against these weapons. For 10 points, name these weapons that trigger an explosion when stepped on.ANSWER: anti-personnel land mines [or blast mines; or fragmentation mines; or naval mines; or IED; or culvert bomb; or roadside bomb; or improvised explosive device; or unexploded ordnance; or UXO; or UXB; or UO; prompt on bomb] <Bentley>
According to its artist, a portrait of a man in this profession captured "the heartbroken expression of our time". A girl in a red beret holds up a doll to a man in this profession in a painting by Norman Rockwell, who also depicted a man in this profession preparing his equipment as a boy stands on a chair with his pants partially pulled down. A man in this profession rests his right elbow next to two yellow books in one of two portraits by (*) Vincent Van Gogh. A large book is open on the right-hand side of the canvas where seven men in this profession watch the title man lecture on the sinewy arm of the central corpse. For 10 points, name this profession of Paul Gachet and Nicholaes Tulp, the latter of whom is the subject of Rembrandt's The Anatomy Lesson.ANSWER: medical doctor [or surgeon or physician] <Bentley>
The mercuric salt of this ion is used for oxymercuration. Like borate, Tris bonds this ion in a common buffer for electrophoresis. This ion is the smallest short-chain fatty acid. This ion, which has a conjugate pKa of 4.76, is a much weaker base than ethoxide, as shown in a common classroom example of resonance stability. Cellulose esters are almost always made to this group, which is added to salicylic acid to make (*) aspirin. Like nitrate, chlorate, and perchlorate, all salts of this anion are water-soluble. Adding vinegar to bicarbonate makes carbonic acid and this ion. This carboxylate has two carbon atoms. For 10 points, name this ion with formula CH3COO minus, the conjugate base of acetic acid.ANSWER: acetate [or acetyl group; or acetoxy group; do not accept or prompt on "acetic acid"] <Silverman>
In Friedman's test, the distribution of the test statistic Q approximates this distribution. Wilks's theorem shows that this distribution approximates negative two times the natural log of the likelihood ratio for nested models. Yates's continuity correction is applied to tests that use this distribution on contingency tables. One test statistic is approximated by this distribution, calculated as the sum of the observed minus expected values (*) squared, divided by the expected value. This distribution describes the sum of squares of a number of standard normal random variables. The only parameter of this distribution is degrees of freedom. For 10 points, name this distribution used in Pearson's "goodness of fit" test.ANSWER: central chi-squared distribution <Kothari> - Page 2 of 14 5. One thinker from this non-Greek tradition defended the immortality of the soul in Phaedon and was part of this tradition's enlightenment or Haskalah. Another philosopher of this religion criticized the methods, but not the conclusions, of the Kalam school in a treatise whose third book begins with an exegesis of a passage about a chariot. That book argued that the God of this religion can only be described by what he is (*) not and attempted to reconcile Aristotelianism with this religion. The Tractatus Theologico-Politicus disputed this religion's claim to chosenness. The Guide for the Perplexed was written by a member of this religion, Maimonides. For 10 points, name this religion from which Baruch Spinoza was expelled for denying the divine origins of the Torah.
A son-in-law of this man, who has gotten corruption charges for money-laundering through the No-os institute, is former handball star Inaki Urdangarin. This man claimed to be recovering in bed from a broken hip when he was actually out with a possible mistress named Corinna zu Sayn-Wittgenstein on an elephant hunting trip. A June 2014 decision by this man led to a rise in rank for former television anchor (*) Letizia Ortiz. In part due to youth unemployment rates at or above 50% in his country, this man, who once blurted out "Why don't you shut up?" to Hugo Chavez, decided to step aside in favor of his son, who became Felipe VI. For 10 points, name this man who undid the dictatorial system left behind by Francisco Franco during his 37 years as King of Spain.ANSWER: King Juan Carlos I <Jackson>
This poem originally appeared as the poem following "Brother Square-Toes" in the collection Rewards and Fairies. It warns that truths can be "twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools" and suggests that one's "heart and nerve and sinew" can be made subject to "the Will which says to them: 'Hold on'". This poem, which was inspired by the exploits of Leander Starr (*) Jameson, describes the "two imposters" of "triumph and disaster". It also encourages the addressee to "fill the unforgiving minute / with sixty seconds' worth of distance run" and to "keep your head when all about you / Are losing theirs and blaming it on you". For 10 points, name this Rudyard Kipling poem that lays out the conditions by which "you'll be a Man, my son!"ANSWER: "If–" <Carson>
In a concert overture by this composer, the English horn quotes a love song from one of his operas, which later gives way to the saltarello rhythm that opened the overture. This composer's Requiem contains a "Lacrymosa" in 9/8 time and sonata form, and also calls for four offstage brass choirs at the four cardinal directions which enter in the "Tuba Mirum". This composer reworked material from his opera (*) Benvenuto Cellini into the Roman Carnival Overture. Another of his pieces depicts an artist's opium trip and revolves around a recurring ideé fixe symbolizing unrequited love. For 10 points, name this French composer who included "March to the Scaffold" and "Dream of a Witches' Sabbath" in his Symphonie fantastique.ANSWER: Hector Berlioz <Rosenberg>
This man wrote a treatise on the influence of the crusades on medieval architecture after taking a bicycle trip around France. After this man refused the Order of the Bath and the DSO, a shocked King George V noted that he was left "holding the box in my hand." This man adopted the alias John Hume Ross to escape the fame of a Lowell Thomas biography. This man was commanded by Edmund Allenby in an operation in which his men crossed the treacherous (*) Nefud (neh-FOOD) desert and laid waste to the Hejaz Railway. This man, who was raped by the Turks during a recon mission, died in a motorcycle crash. He launched an attack against Aqaba that was recounted in his memoir Seven Pillars of Wisdom. For 10 points, name this British leader of the Arab Revolt in World War I.ANSWER: T. E. Lawrence [or Lawrence of Arabia; or Thomas Edward Lawrence; or Ned Lawrence; or John Hume Ross before mentioned] <Bentley> - Page 3 of 14 10. The Landmarkists held that this sect maintained an unbroken line of continuity since Apostolic times. The issue of whether or not to adhere to a Calvinist soteriology divides the "General" and "Reformed" sects within this denomination. This denomination believes in soul competency, two church offices, and two ordinances: the Lord's Supper and the (*) "believer's" form of a certain practice. The first congregation of this denomination in North America was established in Providence by Roger Williams. In 2012, Fred Luter was elected as the first African American president of the Southern Convention of this denomination, the largest Protestant group in the US. For 10 points, name this denomination that advocates performing the namesake sacrament by total immersion.
The risk of these events in major cities was documented by the Sanborn maps. Many victims of one of these events had earlier been led by Clara Lemlich in the Uprising of the 20,000. Ignatius Donnelly's crazy book Ragnarok claims that one of these events was caused by Biela's Comet. In a trial over one of these events, the lawyer Max Steur tricked Kate Alterman into repeating the testimony she had memorized. Daniel (*) "Pegleg" Sullivan may have caused one of these events which happened simultaneously with one in Peshtigo. Frances Perkins investigated claims that victims of one of these events were trapped by locked doors. For 10 points, name this type of disaster, examples of which affected the Triangle Shirtwaist factory in 1911 and Chicago in 1871.ANSWER: fires [or obvious equivalents; or Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire; or Great Chicago Fire of 1871] <Brownstein>
A man vows to prevent ghosts from wandering near the blood of two freshly-slain sheep until this person answers his questions in an epic poem. In an instance of nekyia from Book XI of the Odyssey, Odysseus rebuffs his own mother Anticleia while waiting to speak to this man in the underworld. This man's mother Chariclo begs Athena to reverse her punishment of him after he saw the goddess bathing. While wandering Mount Cyllene, this man angers (*) Hera by beating up a pair of copulating snakes, and is transformed into a woman. This man rebukes Creon for ordering Antigone to be buried alive, and he refuses to aid an investigation into the murder of Laius, because he doesn't want to reveal that Oedipus is the killer. For 10 points, name this blind Greek sage.ANSWER: Tiresias <Gupta>
The first novel by this author to appear in English was translated by Meredith Weatherby and has a protagonist who reattaches a ship to a mooring buoy during a typhoon in order to prove his worthiness to marry the shipowner's daughter. This author of a novel about the love between Hatsue (haht-soo-eh) and Shinji also created a student at the Peers School who dies after falling in love with Satoko Ayakura, then (*) reappears as Isao Iinuma (ee-ee-nu-ma), Ying Chan, and Toru Yasunaga. This author of The Sound of Waves wrote about Shigekuni Honda in a four-volume sequence that includes Runaway Horses and Spring Snow. For 10 points, name this Japanese author of the Sea of Fertility tetralogy and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, who committed seppuku after his nationalist coup failed.ANSWER: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept either name in either order] <Jose>
Many of these systems improve on the setup of Army Beta, which was introduced during World War I. One method of performing this activity features a price tag-shaped blank region in the lower right of cards printed with n-by-n patterns and was designed by John C. Raven. "Progressive matrices" and the WAIS are two types of these things, whose results are often correlated with a value developed by Charles Spearman called (*) g-factor. A increase in the results of these constructs over time, including the Wechsler varieties, is called the Flynn effect and requires these constructs to be periodically re-normed so calculations of "mental age" don't become inflated. For 10 points, name these evaluations of aptitude which often calculate a person's IQ.ANSWER: intelligence tests [accept any answer indicating ways of evaluating, quantifying, testing, etc. the general intelligence of persons; or IQ tests before "IQ"] <Jackson> - Page 4 of 14 15. In 1862, the Provisional Theater was founded as a stage for opera in this language. In an opera in this language, a stuttering teenager is convinced to dress up as a bear for a circus troupe, which enters in the "March of the Comedians." In another opera in this language, a prince pursuing a white doe is the love interest of the title character, who sings the "Song to the Moon" and is a (*) water nymph similar to the Undine (un-DEEN). This language was used to tell the story of how Jenik (yen-ik) appears to accept money in exchange for the right to wed his lover, but instead ends up marrying Mařenka anyway. For 10 points, name this language which was used to write the operas Rusalka and The Bartered Bride, the latter by Bedřich Smetana.
This species was infected by the PtERV1 retrovirus four million years ago, possibly causing a speciation event. Before she was moved to a namesake facility in Ellensburg, Washington, a female one of these animals was cared for by Allen and Beatrix Gardner and later by Roger Fouts. Some of these animals placed stalks of grass in termite holes to "fish" for termites, and formed (*) troops that cannibalized rivals. One of them named Washoe was the first non-human to learn ASL, inspiring research of one of these animals with a name punning on "Noam Chomsky." These animals share the genus Pan with bonobos, and groups of them were studied in Gombe by the primatologist Jane Goodall. For 10 points, name these great apes more closely related to humans than gorillas.ANSWER: chimpanzees [or Pan troglodytes; prompt on great apes before it is read; prompt on primates before "primatologist" is read] <Smart>
A poem by this author calls a woman a "thin brown mouse... living all alone/In this cold house" and contrasts her with a woman who "stayed home and scraped life with a fine tooth comb." This author of "Sadie and Maud" set a poem in a "rented back room" inhabited by two women "who have lived their day" and are "Mostly Good", for whom "dinner is a casual affair". In addition to "The (*) Bean Eaters", her works include a collection of poems about a girl growing up in Bronzeville called Annie Allen. Her most famous poem is about a group of pool players at "The Golden Shovel" who "lurk late," "strike straight," "jazz June," and "die soon". For 10 points, name this first African-American Pulitzer Prize winner, the poet of "We Real Cool."ANSWER: Gwendolyn Brooks [or Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks] <Cheng>
In this modern-day country, the North Korean-trained Fifth Brigade led a four-year-long period of political terror known by a name which translates as "the early rain that washes away the chaff." This country gained its independence after its "Bush War," or Second Chimurenga, which ended with the Lancaster House Agreement. In 1987, Joseph (*) Nkomo, an opposition leader from this country, was coerced into leaving politics after thousands of his supporters were killed in this country's Matabeleland region. The Movement for Democratic Change is the main opposition party in this country, where forced land redistribution targeting whites carried out the ruling ZANU-PF party caused massive hyperinflation during the 2000's. For 10 points, name this African country led by Robert Mugabe.ANSWER: Zimbabwe [or Republic of Zimbabwe] <Wang>
A character in this novel religiously watches the Luxembourg Gardens, hoping to see his beloved "lark", whom he calls Ursula. A boy in this novel unknowingly brings his infant brothers to live with him in a giant plaster elephant. This novel's villain is bribed to move with his daughter Azelma to America and become a slave trader. A street gang in this novel is known by the name (*) Patron-Minette. In the first section of this book, a man is turned away from inns because of his yellow passport but is given shelter by Bishop Myriel, from whom he steals some silver. This novel's protagonist carries a body through the sewers, a deed which Thernardier eventually reveals to Marius. For 10 points, name this Victor Hugo novel about Jean Valjean.ANSWER: Les Miserables [or The Dispossessed; or The Miserable Ones; or The Poor Ones; or The Wretched Ones; prompt on "Les Mis"] <Silverman> - Page 5 of 14 20. A bar being dragged down a metal rail by a constant external force may have an exponential decrease in its velocity because of this law. This equation explains how skin and proximity effects create eddies that heat up metals. A commutator and a rotating solenoid are used to generate power in a common application of this equation. This law gives the magnitude of the step-up or step-down in voltage from a (*) transformer. This law has a minus sign as a consequence of Lenz's law. It sets the electromotive force equal to the negative time derivative of the B flux through a current loop. For 10 points, name this equation giving the induced voltage from a change in magnetic field, the only one of Maxwell's equations named for an English scientist.
These people often earned funds for traveling through the credit-ticket system. The citizenship of a child of two members of this ethnicity was confirmed via the jus soli concept in an 1898 Supreme Court case. The Six Companies catered to people of this ethnicity, who were the subject of the Geary Act. These people were the target of the Rock Springs massacre and were initially attracted by (*) "Gold Mountain". People of this ethnicity benefited from the Magnuson Act of 1943 which largely repealed the 1875 Page Act. Large numbers of them worked on the Central Pacific Railroad. They were taxed by California's Anti-Coolie Act. For 10 points, name these people whose entry to the United States was restricted through a namesake "Exclusion Act".ANSWER: Chinese-Americans [or Chinese immigrants to the United States] <Bentley>
A few months after this conflict, two belligerents quarreled over the sinking of the Eilat. Gunnar Jarring's peace mission after this war partly failed due to the "three no's" of the Khartoum Resolution. After losing this war, a leader ceded power to his vice-president Zakaria Mohieddin, but popular support drew him back to office. UN Security Council Resolution 242 dealt with the territorial exchanges in this war, which began with an attack on 25 different (*) airfields after the Straits of Tiran were closed. In this conflict, the Sinai Peninsula and the Gaza Strip were seized from Gamal Abdel Nasser's Egypt. This war was fought six years prior to the Yom Kippur War. For 10 points, name this 1967 victory for Israel over its Arab enemies, concluded in less than a week.ANSWER: Six-Day War [or June War; or Third Arab-Israeli War; or 1967 Arab-Israeli War until mentioned] <Bentley>
Lee and Osheroff investigated a solid phase of this element using a Pomeranchuk cell. This element is the most common one used to study quantized vortices. New properties of this element were discovered by Kapitza, Allen, and Misener, all working independently. Two isotopes of this element are continuously mixed and undergo a spontaneous phase separation in a dilution refrigerator. An isotope of this element that is a (*) boson was used by Kamerlingh-Onnes for his most famous discovery. This element is the only one to never form a solid and standard pressure. Below its lambda point, a form of this element becomes a superfluid, which has zero viscosity. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number two.ANSWER: superfluid 4-helium [or superfluid 4-He; or "3" in place of "4"] <Voight>
This man terrorizes the island of Paros until its inhabitants agree to hand over two grandsons of Minos to serve as his companions. This man bursts out of the shackles placed upon him by Busiris, an Egyptian king who sacrifices all visitors to his realm. This man is cheated out of one-tenth of the cattle promised to him by a king whom he deposes and replaces with Phyleus. This man gets his toe pinched by a crab during a fight in which he tells his (*) nephew Iolaus use a torch to cauterize several stumps. In another adventure, this man diverts two rivers. To atone for murdering his own family, this man helps a king who hides in a bronze jar, Eurystheus, by cleaning the Augean stables and killing the Hydra. For 10 points, name this Greek hero who completes Twelve Labors.ANSWER: Heracles [or Hercules] <Jose>
This man promoted the use of his family's heraldic crest, consisting of grey wolves flanking a cooking pot. This man traced the turning point in his life to when he read a book by Ludolph of Saxony in his family's meager library. That happened while this man recovered from a botched surgery after suffering a leg wound at the siege of Pamplona. This man advocated going on a month-long secular retreat while reading his book of (*) prayers and meditations, and penned a set of Constitutions excluding female participation in his order and making his disciples swear allegiance to the Pope. Francis Xavier continued this man's work by leading missions into Asia. For 10 points, name this author of Spiritual Exercises, the founder of the Jesuits.ANSWER: Saint Ignatius of Loyola [accept either underlined part; or Ignacio de Loyola] <Bentley>
A leader of this country killed thousands of supporters of Imam al-Hadi by bombing Aba Island, and executed a scholar who advocated "the second message of Islam," Mahmoud Taha. This country's opposition Umma Party developed from its Ansar movement, which reveres a 19th-century religious figure. John Garang founded this country's People's Liberation Army in response to Jaafar Nimeiri's imposition of (*) sharia law. A 2005 "Comprehensive Peace Agreement" ended this country's second civil war, and led to a referendum that created a state led by Salva Kiir. The International Criminal Court indicted this country's president, Omar al-Bashir, for his role in the Darfur conflict. For 10 points, name this African country whose south seceded in 2011.ANSWER: Republic of the Sudan [or Jumhuriyat as-Sudan] <Yu>
This man expressed a desire to "unsphere / the spirit of Plato to unfold / what worlds or what vast regions hold / the immortal mind" in a poem that features invocations of Saturn, Vesta, and Urania. He declares "Mirth, with thee I mean to live" at the end of one poem, while in that poem's companion, he dismissed "vain deluding joys" in favor of "divinest Melancholy". In a non-fiction work, this man asserted that "he who destroys a good (*) book, kills reason itself." He coined the phrase "they also serve who only stand and wait" in a sonnet that begins with the line "When I consider how my light is spent" and reflects on his blindness. For 10 points, name this author of "L'Allegro" and "Il Penseroso", as well as Areopagitica and the epic poem Paradise Lost.ANSWER: John Milton <Cheng> - Page 2 of 13 5. The second movement of this composer's piano concerto is an "Intermezzo: Andantino Grazioso" which transitions directly into the finale after a return of a theme from the "Allegro affetuoso" first movement. A song cycle by this composer ends with the speaker planning to put all his old bitter songs into a coffin. He composed two Liederkreis as well as (*) Dichterliebe in 1840, which is known as his "Year of Song." Like Grieg, this composer's only piano concerto is in A minor, and his Symphony No. 3 was apocryphally inspired by a viewing of Cologne Cathedral. For 10 points, name this German composer of Scenes from Childhood, Carnaval, and the Rhenish Symphony, who wrote his piano concerto for his wife Clara.
A material demonstrating this phenomenon appears to decrease in weight in a Gouy balance. An electron in 2D orbit around a nucleus demonstrates this phenomenon due to Larmor precession, with a magnitude proportional to the radius squared over six times the mass. This phenomenon explains the strong downfield shift of aromatic compounds' ring currents in proton NMR. A normal conductor cooled into superconducting state displays the (*) perfect form of this phenomenon, with a susceptibility of negative one. This phenomenon occurs if all electrons in a material are paired. This behavior could be used to accomplish levitation because it causes materials to repel all B fields. For 10 points, name this type of magnetism contrasted with paramagnetism and ferromagnetism.ANSWER: diamagnetism [prompt on magnetism] <Silverman>
A character in this novel loses the right to marry a farmer's daughter when the farmer realizes he eats more than his work is worth, and is commonly referred to as "the idiot". One of its characters is tricked into wearing a headband that can be tightened at will by another character. In a scene from this novel, the protagonist urinates on one of five huge pink pillars, only to learn that he's on a giant (*) hand. Supporting characters in this novel include a man who transforms into a monster, haunting a river after smashing a crystal goblet, and the lecherous wielder of the nine-toothed iron rake, respectively known as Sandy and Pigsy. For 10 points, name this classical Chinese novel in which Xuanzang (shoo-wen-zahng) is accompanied by Sun Wukong, the Monkey King, on a trip to India.ANSWER: Journey to the West [or Xi You Ji; or Hsi-yu Chi] <Gupta>
One pathogen affecting these non-feline organisms is the Friend virus, a serotype of a namesake leukemia virus. A type of this organism with defective myelin is called its "shiverer" strain. The BALB/c strain of these animals is frequently used to create monoclonal antibodies. Behavior known as barbering is often observed in females of this species, who will remove vibrissae and hair from subordinates. The 2007 Nobel Prize was awarded to the researchers who developed this animal's (*) knockout type. An albino strain of this creature's Mus musculus species is a common model organism in labs. The "house" type of this mammal is a common pest. For 10 points, name these small murine rodents related to rats.ANSWER: mouse [or house mouse; or Mus musculus or M. musculus before they are read] <Smart>
Stucco sculptures by Antonio Raggi and Leonardo Retti are interspersed with a painting covering one of these things titled The Triumph of the Sacred Name of Jesus by Giovanni Battista Gaulli. Andrea Pozzo's Baroque masterpiece The Glory of St. Ignatius Loyola and the Missionary Work of the Jesuits covers one of these things. In a trompe-l'oeil (tromp-leh-ee) painting covering one of these places, putti (POO-tee) stand around a (*) circular opening; that painting was executed by Andrea Mantegna for the Camera degli (DAYyee) Sposi. A painting that covers one of these places contains an image of the title figure joining his index finger to that of God. For 10 points, name these parts of a room, one of which features Michelangelo's The Creation of Adam and is located in the Sistine Chapel.ANSWER: ceiling [or dome or nave; prompt on room or church or chapel] <Bentley> - Page 3 of 13 10. In a book about this thinker, Edmund Leach criticized him for obscurantism and for spending only a few weeks at each field site. This thinker applied "normal-transformed" and "culture-nature" axes to a construct that was modeled on Roman Jakobson's primary vowel-consonant triangle. That construct is the culinary triangle. He noted that trickster gods tend to play a mediating role as part of his analysis of (*) mythemes. This anthropologist rejected the distinction between totemism and caste in a work that described the title entity as one that builds with the materials at its disposal, a bricoleur. For 10 points, name this French structural anthropologist who included The Raw and the Cooked in Mythologiques and wrote The Savage Mind.
The relative energy shift in the Kundig experiment is proportional to this quantity squared for the absorber. This quantity was sinusoidally varied by a loudspeaker for the radiation source in the PoundRebka experiment. For a galaxy, the total value for this quantity equals its "peculiar" form plus H-nought times distance. This quantity multiplies the cosine of the angle between the emitter and receiver in a (*) transverse effect predicted by special relativity. The change in frequency equals the emitted frequency times a ratio of this quantity. If the radial form of this quantity is increasing, then a redshift is seen. For 10 points, name this quantity which causes a Doppler shift if it's different for the source and emitter, and equals the product of wavelength and frequency of a wave.ANSWER: wave velocity [or source velocity; or radial velocity; or speed] <Silverman>
A work by this man claims that "life is a self-evolving" one of the title things, of which the horizon is the second and the eye the first. This author examined "essences unchanged by man" that make up the "NOT ME" in an eight-part essay, and criticized "faith that stands on authority" in an essay about a concept "within which every man's particular being is contained." He wrote a passage in which "all mean egotism vanishes" as the speaker becomes like a (*) "transparent eyeball". In another essay, he asserted that "a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds" and urged the reader to "trust thyself". For 10 points, name this author of "Circles", "The Over-Soul", and "Self-Reliance", whose essay "Nature" outlines the foundations of Transcendentalism.ANSWER: Ralph Waldo Emerson <Carson>
This species is disproportionated by reacting with sodium hydroxide in the Hooker process. In the classic example of the reactivity-selectivity principle, this molecule abstracts any hydrogen from a hydrocarbon. Addition of this species to carbon monoxide makes phosgene. This oxidizing agent forms when acid reacts with bleach. Homolytic bond cleavage of this molecule is the first step in the BornHaber cycle for (*) table salt. It forms at the anode when brine is electrolyzed. Before Zyklon B and mustard gas, Fritz Haber weaponized this molecule for the Germans in World War I. For 10 points, name this molecule which is added to water to sterilize it, a diatomic yellow poisonous gas composed of the second halogen.ANSWER: chlorine gas [or Cl2] <Silverman>
The mother of all of these animals is often pictured on posters with mountains making up her legs and gods making up her eyes and shoulders.The earth-goddess Prithvi, who worked with Prithu to overcome a famine, took this animal form. These animals are washed and decorated in temples on the eighth day of the month of Kartika, a holiday known as Gopastami. The (*) excrement of these animals is used as a fuel in many pujas, and is one of this animal's "five products," along with ghee. A white, male example of these animals is the mount of Shiva and is named Nandi. The Law of Manu, Rig Veda, and Mahabharata all prohibit killing this animal. For 10 points, name these animals that are sacred in Hinduism.ANSWER: cows [or bulls; or cattle; or Bos taurus] <Gupta> - Page 4 of 13 15. The LUBILOSA program sought to control these organisms with an isolate from Metarhizium fungus called "Green Muscle." A characteristic behavior of these animals results from a phase polymorphism in which serotonin accumulates in their brains, causing gregariousness. These animals return to Umuofia for the first time in many years in Things Fall Apart, allowing villagers to (*) catch them and roast them in clay pots. In a novel partly named for this arthropod, Tod Hackett falls in love with the starlet Faye Greener; that novel by Nathanael West is set in Hollywood. In the film Days of Heaven, these insects destroy the farmer's wheat field. For 10 points, name these insects, a phase of many short-horned grasshoppers, that form swarms.
In 2012, this city completed work on a 58-story glass skyscraper with a roughly macaroni-shaped footprint called The Bow, which was designed by Norman Foster's firm. The 201 Red Line and 202 Blue Line, which make up this city's light-rail system, share a west-to-east track just north of this non-U.S. city's central Beltline neighborhood. In 2013, floods in this city caused the Bow and Elbow rivers to burst their banks. The southwesternmost (*) riding in this city is represented by Stephen Harper in the House of Commons. This city, about an hour and a half east of Banff National Park, is served by an airport with the code YYC and hosts an annual rodeo called the Stampede. For 10 points, name this city south of Edmonton, the most populous in Alberta.ANSWER: Calgary, Alberta <Jackson>
Joan (HWAN) Gardy Artigas tiled a twenty-two meter-tall sculpture with a vulva-shaped opening of one of these non-human animals, which overlooks the Joan (HWAN) Miró park in Barcelona. For the front steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Jacques Lipchitz sculpted one of these animals being strangled. Several sculptures of these animals never made it to a 1926 exhibition at the Brummer Gallery, curated by Marcel Duchamp. In seven marble and nine bronze sculptures of these animals, their creator reduced their (*) anatomical features to a simple slanted oval plane. Those sculptures of these animals by a Romanian were taxed by U.S. Customs officials who refused to believe they were art. For 10 points, name these animals depicted "in space" in a series by Constantin Brancusi.ANSWER: birds [or Aves; accept vultures; accept condors; accept Accipitridae; accept Cathartidae; accept Bird in Space] <Gupta>
During the reign of Augustus and Tiberius, many of these objects were produced at Lugdunum. Participants in the Bar Kokhba revolt used a file to remove the original designs of these objects. Caracalla commissioned the antonianus type of these objects. Under Constantine, the solidus type of these objects was often replaced with the pecunia type. Standardization and reform of these objects was carried out by (*) Diocletian, who issued an edict that was heavily based on one of these objects called the denarius. The term for the study of these objects is derived from the Latin word numismatis. These objects, whose aureus type was made of gold, often contained a profile portrait of the emperor on the obverse. For 10 points, name these units of Roman currency.ANSWER: Roman coins [or Roman coinage; accept antonianus before mentioned; accept solidus before mentioned; accept pecunia before mentioned; accept denarius before mentioned; accept aureus before mentioned] <Bentley>
A character in this novel joins a protest in Cambodia as part of his desire to be part of the Grand March of History. Its protagonist works as a window cleaner after twice refusing to retract an article he wrote quote "Es muss sein". Another character in this novel is a painter who declares a "war on kitsch" and wears her (*) grandfather's bowler hat while having sex. The protagonist's son Simon arranges his funeral after he dies in a car accident in this novel, in which the professor Franz has an affair with Sabina, who also sleeps with the protagonist. For 10 points, name this novel about Tereza and her womanizing husband Tomas, written by Milan Kundera.ANSWER: The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí] <Bentley> - Page 5 of 13 20. It didn't happen in 1948, but newspapers during this election prematurely announced the victory in the Wisconsin primary of former basketball player Mo Udall. Frank Church and Jerry Brown led a movement called "anyone but" this election's winner. The loser of this election blundered by claiming that "there is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe," overshadowing his opponent's admission in a (*) Playboy interview that he committed adultery in his heart. This election marked the last time that a Democrat won all the states in the Deep South. The incumbent going into this election, who never recovered from an unpopular pardon, lost to a dark horse candidate from Georgia. For 10 points, name this election which led to Jimmy Carter becoming president.
W.T. Yasso studied the half-hearted and crenulate shaped type of these structures, which resembles the logarithmic spiral shape. Plants that grow at these locations include Honckenya peploides and the grassleaf orache. The namesake "cusps" of these locations are marked alternating paths of horns and embayments. The sediment of these locations is refilled through "nourishment", and one can construct a revetment to reverse the loss of materials via (*) longshore drift at these locations. Sediment in these places is modified by standing waves, and water called swash weathers the rocks at them, including pebbles. For 10 points, name these locations along the coast which contain shoals and sand.ANSWER: beaches [or seashores, lakeshores, or shorelines until "longshore drift" is read; prompt on coasts or seasides] <Jose>
A Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart piece in this genre suddenly interrupts the rondo finale with songlike minuet in the subdominant key of A-flat major. Mozart also wrote an A major piece in this genre whose second-movement Adagio in F-sharp minor is the only movement that Mozart ever wrote in that key. Mozart's C major twenty-first piece in this genre includes an F major Andante used prominently in the followed by a brief cadenza from the soloist. That piece in E-flat major is his fifth and final piece is this genre, nicknamed Emperor. For 10 points, name these pieces for a keyboard soloist with orchestral accompaniment.ANSWER: piano concertos [or piano concerti; prompt on concertos; prompt on concerti] <Kim>
The Committee of 25 was an influential group of businessmen in this city that engineered the campaign of Norris Poulson for mayor. Harrison Gray Otis founded the Merchants and Manufacturers Association to keep unions out of this city and published its major newspaper. He was succeeded as publisher by Harry Chandler, and together Otis and Chandler bought up land surrounding this city while another friend bought water rights in the (*) Owens Valley. Buildings in Chavez Ravine were razed initially for public housing here, but the land was sold to Walter O'Malley to build a stadium instead. William Mulholland oversaw the construction of an aqueduct through the San Fernando Valley to this city where the Brooklyn Dodgers moved in 1958. For 10 points, name this largest city in California.ANSWER: Los Angeles, California [or L.A., California] <Bailey>
This politician resigned from the Cabinet when the Prime Minister proposed granting extra funds to Maynooth College. This man appointed Francis Napier head of a commission investigating the conditions of crofters and cotters in the Scottish Highlands. This prime minister, who introduced the secret ballot and frequently donated his own money to rescue fallen women, seized upon Ottomanperpetrated atrocities in Bulgaria to go on a foreign policy speech tour in his (*) "Midlothian Campaign." Despite signing the Kilmanhaim Treaty with Charles Parnell, this protege of Robert Peel was unable to secure Irish Home Rule across his four terms as Prime Minister. For 10 points, name this Liberal Prime Minister, the rival of Benjamin Disraeli.ANSWER: William Gladstone [or William Ewart Gladstone] <Bentley>
On the right-hand side of this painting, a pot, a metal spoon, and a yellow knapsack are laid out in preparation for a meager lunch. The artist wrote, "You begin like one and end like the other," in reference to this painting's differently aged title figures. When this painting, which was destroyed in 1945, was exhibited at the Salon of 1850, critics attacked it for being too large given the ugliness of its characters. The bare back of one of the men in this painting can be seen through a (*) hole in his tattered overalls. A straw hat obscures the face of the older man in this painting, who uses a pickaxe to perform the title action while working to build a road. For 10 points, name this Gustave Courbet painting of two workers chipping away at rocks.ANSWER: The Stone Breakers [or Les Casseurs de pierres] <Bentley>
This person's prediction that displacement squared equals six multiplied by diffusivity multiplied by time in random walks was used by Jean Perrin to measure Avogadro's number. The proportionality constants for the rates of spontaneous and stimulated emission are named for this person. This scientist showed that, as temperature goes to infinity, heat capacity goes to 3R, if a solid is modeled as a lattice of independent (*) springs with quantized vibrations. This physicist also showed that light energy is quantized into photons in a Nobel Prize-winning description of the photoelectric effect. The fourth of his Annus mirabilis papers published in 1905 introduced mass-energy equivalence. For 10 points, name this German physicist who proposed that E equals m times c squared.ANSWER: Albert Einstein <Silverman>
In this novel, a woman runs scalding water over the utensils used by her black maid, who eats lunch "alone like a leper." A boy in this novel is berated for supposedly eating French fries with Melvin Weiner after he lies about having diarrhea. A man in this novel recalls bathing with his frequently-constipated father, an insurance salesman. This novel ends with the question, "Now vee may perhaps to begin. Yes?" While in Connecticut, its protagonist pretends to be married to his (*) sexually adventurous girlfriend, who he nicknames "The Monkey". The title character describes his adolescent obsession with masturbation and his overbearing mother Sophie to his psychiatrist, Dr. Spielvogel. For 10 points, name this novel about the title "nice Jewish boy", by Philip Roth.ANSWER: Portnoy's Complaint <Yu> - Page 2 of 13 5. In reactions, metal aquo complexes act as these species. These species are in the numerator of alpha fractions. In organic chemistry, these compounds activate electrophiles like carbonyls or alkyl halides. KHP serves this role in reactions. These compounds dehydrate sugars to pure carbon. The inductive effect explains why nearby electronegative groups increase the (*) strength of these compounds. The "mineral" type of these compounds are inorganic. Ammonium chloride and ferric chloride act as these species. The strength of these compounds varies inversely with their pKas. In reactions, they are often written as "HA." For 10 points, name these compounds which accept electron pairs or donate protons to solution, the opposite of bases.
On this island, Barghash bin Said built a palace with electricity and an elevator, the House of Wonders. This island's rulers employed the ivory and slave trader Tippu Tip. With the support of the ASP Youth League, John Okello declared himself Field Marshall and massacred this island's Arabs during its 1964 revolution. Henry Rawson bombarded this island for 38 minutes before it surrendered during the shortest war in history. Like nearby (*) Mafia Island and Pemba Island, this island is called a "spice island" for its production of cloves. Until the late 19th century, this island's namesake sultanate controlled the nearby city of Mombasa. Julius Nyerere unified this island with the Republic of Tanganyika. For 10 points, name this largest island in Tanzania.ANSWER: Zanzibar [or Unjuga] <Wang>
This man claimed the morality of action depends on the merit of that action's motive, which in turn depends on the action's merit, in his "circle argument." One of this man's characters pointed out the problem of infinite regress in first cause theory in his attack on the cosmological argument. This creator of Philo and Cleathes divided statements into relations of ideas and matters of fact and formulated the (*) copy principle. This man created a thought experiment that contradicted his theory that ideas are derived from impressions. This man posited a missing shade of blue and warned against deriving an "ought" from an "is" in his Treatise of Human Nature. For 10 points, name this author of An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, a Scottish empiricist philosopher.ANSWER: David Hume <Gupta>
This initiative was motivated by the three separate setbacks its proponent learned about on a lesserknown Black Monday. This initiative prompted the vice president to hold his nose and give a thumbs down on the Senate floor. New officials called "proctors" were proposed in this initiative, which was secretly prepared by Attorney General Homer Cummings. Owen Roberts is credited with (*) defeating this initiative by choosing not to side with the so-called "Four Horsemen." Three weeks after this initiative was discussed in the ninth fireside chat, a minimum wage law in Washington was upheld in West Coast Hotel v. Parrish thanks to "the switch in time that saved nine." For 10 points each, identify this failed plan by Franklin D. Roosevelt to add six new Supreme Court justices.ANSWER: Franklin Roosevelt's court-packing scheme [or Judicial Procedures Reform Bill of 1937; accept answers that convey packing the court] <Gupta>
This author modeled several characters on the real Father Trevor Huddleston. One character with that name is in a novel that begins with the arrest of an Indian headmaster's daughter named Prem at a library and depicts the start of the Defiance Campaign. Another novel by this author was adapted by Kurt Weill and Maxwell Anderson into the musical Lost in the (*) Stars. In that novel by this author, a man stays with the Harrisons and learns about his son's social justice work, which eventually leads to the farming expert Napoleon Letsitsi being sent to help Ndotsheni by James Jarvis. For 10 points, name this author of the novel Ah, But Your Land Is Beautiful, who wrote about a journey taken by Stephen Kumalo to Johannesberg in Cry, the Beloved Country.ANSWER: Alan Paton [or Alan Stewart Paton] <Gehring> - Page 3 of 13 10. Hesiod reports that the men of the Golden Age lived in the air after undergoing this action, whereas the men of the Silver Age stayed on the ground. Athena changes her mind about performing it on Tydeus when she saw him devour the brains of Melanippus. Metanira interrupts an instance of this action by stumbling upon her son Demophon inside the family hearth. This action is performed on a man who became a cicada because (*) Eos forgets to request eternal youth. Peleus interrupts the best-known instance of this action, which alternately takes the form of Thetis anointing her son with ambrosia and placing him atop a fire, or by dipping him in the river Styx. For 10 points, name this action that is nearly completely conferred upon Achilles, save for his heel.
Sets of these objects are classified as basic, alternative, or definitive by the Humphrey-Parkes system. These structures are found along the alar tract. Some of these objects contain thin segments called barbules organized around a rachis. Diogenes Laertius claimed that Socrates defined man as a biped without any of these objects. Three white ones appear in the heraldic symbol of the (*) prince of Wales. These objects, a prized trade good in the Aztec empire, can be cut or fitted with metal to create a nib. Recent fossil discoveries suggest that theropod dinosaurs had these features even earlier than the first discovered fossil of one on Archaeopteryx. For 10 points, name these biological structures which can be made into quill pens.ANSWER: feathers [or plumes; accept plumages until "barbules"] <Jackson>
Rebecca Mead describes identifying with this character at age 17 in a book titled My Life In the novel in which this character appears. After encountering this character dressed in grey and lost in thought in front of the Sleeping Ariadne in the Vatican, Naumann paints a portrait of her as Santa Clara. This woman's interest in improving the cottages of nearby tenant farmers attracts the interest of James Chettam, who eventually marries her sister Celie. Her desire to help her husband research The (*) Key to All Mythologies is rebuffed, and despite being disinherited by that husband, she marries Will Ladislaw after his death. For 10 points, name this woman who comes to regret having married Reverend Edward Casaubon in George Eliot's Middlemarch.ANSWER: Dorothea Brooke [accept either underlined portion] <Carson>
This composer's fifth symphony includes a frequently omitted part for the rare serpent instrument. He's not Hector Berlioz, but the second movement of his fourth symphony is sometimes described as a "Pilgrim's March." The four movements of this composer's A minor third symphony are all performed without a break in between. The finale of his fifth symphony begins with a solo flute quoting the chorale A (*) Mighty Fortress Is Our God. This composer's A major fourth symphony ends with an A minor saltarello, while his third symphony was inspired by the same trip that produced his Hebrides Overture. For 10 points, name this composer of the Reformation, Scottish, and Italian symphonies, and incidental music to A Midsummer Night's Dream.ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn [Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy] <Kim>
The run-time of this procedure is measured by k, the clearing factor. Cesium chloride is used in the isopycnic form of this procedure, enabling identification of the AT to GC base pair ratio. A buffered tissue sample may be blended to homogenize the solution before performing the "ultra" type of this technique. Ribosomal subunits are distinguished based on their values for a parameter in this technique measured in (*) Svedberg units. This step of the cell fractionation process sediments a solution into a pellet and a supernatant and is often performed at 1200 rpm. For 10 points, name this technique in which a namesake machine separates cellular components by size or density by spinning it at a high angular velocity.ANSWER: centrifugation [or word forms such as centrifuge; prompt on spinning down; prompt on sedimentation until it is read] <Smart> - Page 4 of 13 15. Chris Burden created an "Other" version of this artwork, while Diane Carlson Evans raised funds for a women's version of it. 287 additions were made to this work after its completion, and Duery Felton, Jr. organized a collection of objects left next to it. Viewers must walk down a slight grade to approach this work, whose two main components combine to form a "V" shape and are made from gabbro. The artist later created a similar sculpture for (*) Montgomery, Alabama's Civil Rights Museum. This sculpture is accompanied by Frederick Hart's The Three Soldiers. During its construction, a Purple Heart was thrown into the concrete foundation. For 10 points, name this Maya Lin-designed memorial to American soldiers killed in an Asian conflict.
One of this author's protagonists becomes a blacksmith's apprentice after his friend Heilner is expelled from the Maulbronn seminary, then later gets drunk and drowns in a river. Another of his protagonists plans to commit suicide at age fifty, but is delayed by a chance visit to the Black Eagle Tavern, where he learns to dance and meets his future lover Maria. The pressures of academia crush (*) Hans Giebenrath in one of this man's novels, while in another, a jazz saxophonist named Pablo takes the protagonist to a hall of mirrors inside the Magic Theater. The title character of another of his novels abandons his friend Govinda and falls in love with the beautiful Kamala. For 10 points, name this German author who created Harry Haller in Steppenwolf and wrote Siddhartha.ANSWER: Hermann Hesse <Jose>
For a group of sets of this type in the plane, if any three of the sets intersect, then they all intersect by Helly's Theorem. Two disjoint open sets of this type can always be separated by a hyperplane. Jensen's inequality applies to functions described by this adjective, and basically states that a function's average value across inputs is greater than that function of the average of the inputs. The smallest set of this type that encloses a given set is known as that set's (*) "hull" of this type. A shape has this property if all line segments between points in it remain in the figure. A function is described by this word if its second derivative is positive. For 10 points, give this word that denotes polygons whose internal angles are all less than 180 degrees.ANSWER: convexity [accept any word forms] <Schindler>
Once every twelve years in several of these structures, a ceremony is performed during which a heavenly silver wire enters a granite sculpture. Most of these structures follow an 8-by-8 or a 9-by-9 square grid plan. The inner sanctum of these places is known as the "womb chamber," and is often directly underneath a spire called the vimana. The term (*) prasada refers to both these buildings and to the refreshments served inside them after services. People remove their shoes before entering these religious structures, which contain murtis, or idols, of deities like Lakshmi or Ganesh. For 10 points, name these places of worship for the predominant religion in India.ANSWER: Hindu temples [or mandirs; or prasada before mentioned; prompt on partial answer; accept Hindu after "places of worship" is read] <Gupta>
One event planned in this country intended to use a special cooling technology developed by the British firm Arup. Carnegie Mellon's first undergraduate branch campus opened in this country's extensive Education City. This country gave a 3.4 million dollar bribe to the daughter of Ricardo Teixeira in order to secure a 2010 (*) vote in its favor from Brazil. As many as one Nepalese migrant dies per day constructing this country's Lusail City, which is being built in preparation for an event moved to wintertime by an organization led by Sepp Blatter. The Al-Thani family rules this country where Al Jazeera is based. For 10 points, name this Middle East country slated to host the 2022 World Cup.ANSWER: State of Qatar <Bentley> - Page 5 of 13 20. A naval commander decided to wait twenty-seven more days before leaving this island after seeing a lunar eclipse. The hot-blooded Lamachus got his army trapped in a ditch on this island, whose defense was galvanized by Gylippus. Distracted defenders of this island were attacked during a festival to Artemis by Marcus Claudius Marcellus, whose forces were supposedly stymied by a (*) death ray made with a giant mirror and a mechanical claw that could drag entire ships out of the water. Nicias was executed at the end of a military campaign against this island planned by Alcibiades. While drawing circles, Archimedes was killed by Roman soldiers on this island. For 10 points, name this island, the target of an Athenian "expedition" that failed to capture Syracuse.
A family of this ethnicity gives all its jewelry to David Clancy in order to retrieve their son from customs officials in "In the Land of the Free", a story by an author of this ethnicity who was born Edith Maud Eaton. Grace and Steve take on mythological roles and eventually abandon Dale in a restaurant in a play by an author of this ethnicity who also wrote a play in which Rene Gallimard kills himself after his longterm lover reveals that he is male. The author of (*) F.O.B. and M. Butterfly is of this ethnicity, as is the author of a novel in which June, Rose, Lena, and the chess prodigy Waverly are the daughters of a quartet of mahjongplaying women called the Joy Luck Club. For 10 points, identify this ethnicity of Sui Sin Far ("sway" sin far), David Henry Hwang, and Amy Tan.ANSWER: Chinese-American [or Chinese-British-American; or Chinese-British-Canadian; or Chinese-BritishCanadian-American] <Carson>
A 1993 History of this topic, which rejected the rational view of it, was written by John Keegan. A frequently-read summary of this activity by a subordinate of Michel Ney named Baron Jomini was outmoded by a book which described the differences between expectations and reality as "friction." An early treatise about this thing puts "desperate ground" at the end of a list of Nine (*) Situations. The idea that this practice is "the continuation of politics by other means" was put forward in the 19th century by Carl von Clausewitz, whose writings reacted to the rise of its "total" form. The maxim "Know your enemy, and you shall know yourself" comes from a text about it. For 10 points, name this type of organized violence whose "art" was described by Sun Tzu.ANSWER: warfare [or military operations; prompt on military strategy or military tactics] <Bentley>
The carpenter Joseph Arne was awarded a triumph for his role in this event. Mayor Flesselles was executed for refusing to aid this event's participants, some of whom were crushed to death trying to obtain arms from Les Invalides. Stanislas Maillard received a set of never accepted surrender terms during this event, for which artillery was wheeled in by Pierre-Augustin Hulin from the Hotel de Ville. Three days before this event, Jacques (*) Necker was dismissed as finance minister. The Marquis de Sade was transferred to an insane asylum from its location just days before this event, which liberated only seven prisoners. For 10 points, name this event. commemorated on a July 14th holiday, traditionally held to have kicked off the French Revolution.ANSWER: storming of the Bastille [accept equivalents that involve taking the Bastille; prompt on French Revolution] <Bentley>
This poet first raised a recurring subject of his in a poem that described how "Everywhere the eye concedes to / Encrouching horizon, / Is wooed into the cyclops' eye / Of a tarn." The work of P.V. Glob inspired his poem "Tolland Man", a pseudo-sequel to the aforementioned poem from Door to the Dark. This author of several "bog poems" included a collection titled "Sweeney Redivivus" in his collection (*) Station Island. The speaker of another of his poems vows to use the "squat pen" resting "between my finger and my thumb" to perform the title action, which both his father and grandfather did with a spade. That poem, "Digging", was published in his collection Death of a Naturalist. For 10 points, name this Irish author of a famed 1996 translation of Beowulf.ANSWER: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney] <Bentley>
In the IS-LM model, the LM function is bounded by the liquidity preference and this other quantity. In a liquidity trap, fluctuations of this quantity do not correspond to fluctuations in price levels. This quantity is equal to the base times the inverse of the reserve ratio when institutions employ a fractional-reserve policy. A broad definition of this quantity includes negotiable order of withdrawals and certificates of deposits as well as (*) savings accounts and travelers checks. Those various components of this quantity are split into groups called M0, M1, and M2, which distinguish between that left in the bank and the amount of this value in circulation. For 10 points, name this value, which can be defined as the total quantity of currency in the economy.ANSWER: money supply [or supply of money; or money stock; prompt on money] <Jose>
In one of his operas, two characters remember how they both witnessed the appearance of a beautiful veiled woman, and now they notice that their hands push each other apart. One of those characters later burns his village to allow his love interest and his rival to escape execution. This composer adapted material from the carol "March of the Kings" into the "Farandole (fa-run-dole)" that closes his (*) L'Arlesienne (lahr-lay-syen) Suite No. 2. Nadir and Zurga sing this composer's aria "Au fond du temple saint," better known as the "Friendship Duet." Another of his operas features Escamillo singing the "Toreador Song," and ends with Don José stabbing the title gypsy girl. For 10 points, name this French composer of The Pearl Fishers and Carmen.ANSWER: Georges Bizet <Rosenberg>
Near the end of Jacob's life, he blesses his son Judah by comparing him to this animal. A dead variety of this animal inspires the riddle "Out of the eater, something to eat; out of the strong, something sweet." The faces of an ox, a man, an eagle, and this animal characterize the drivers of the flaming chariot in Ezekiel's vision. A swarm of bees populate the carcass of one of these animals discovered by (*) Samson on his way to marry Delilah. When satraps push through a thirty-day ban on worshiping anyone who is not Darius, a righteous Jewish official is to be punished by being fed to these animals, but their mouths are kept shut by an angel. For 10 points, identify these animals which populate a den in which Daniel is imprisoned.ANSWER: lions [or Panthero leo; or P. leo] <Kim> - Page 2 of 13 5. Visitors to this city can spin around on top of a floor mosaic of a bull for good luck, below a massive glass dome in a glass-covered shopping complex. The Fininvest holding company was founded in this city. This city, which founded a renowned tram system in 1881 which maintains an orange color scheme, contains an Arch of Peace lying at the northwest end of its Sempione Park. Expo (*) 2015 began in this city on May 1. Malpensa airport brings visitors into this city, whose reputation as the financial center of its country grew in part due to native media tycoon Silvio Berlusconi. The Galleria Vittorio Emmanuele is in this city, whose opera house is called La Scala. For 10 points, name this capital of Lombardy, a bustling city of northwestern Italy.
A very strong form of this statement holds in spaces like the p-adics. Along with symmetry and nonnegativity restriction, this statement must be true for a distance function to be a metric. The generalization of this statement to the p-norm is named for Minkowski, and it can also be derived from a statement named for (*) Cauchy and Schwarz. One reformulation of it states that absolute value of quantity x plus y is less than or equal to absolute value of x plus absolute value of y. This statement follows from the law of cosines, because the magnitude of cosine in the namesake shapes is less than one. For 10 points, identify this statement which says that, for a certain three-sided figure, a plus b is greater than c.ANSWER: triangle inequality [prompt on ultrametric inequality before the word metric is said, do not accept "Cauchy-Schwarz" inequality at any point] <Schindler>
A character created by this author observes a pack of stubborn mules on a bridge, then returns home and beats his wife, hoping that she'll make him his favorite meal. A book by this author with the subtitle "Prince Galehaut" contains a story beginning with King Solomon ordering a man to visit the Bridge of Geese. Christine de Pizan was inspired by a collection of 106 biographies of (*) women by this man, who fictionalized his muse as "Fiammetta". In a story by this man, the Marquis of Saluzzo pretends to have his first two children killed in order to test the patience of his wife Griselda. Seven men and three women go to Fiesole in the countryside to avoid the Black Death in Florence in his most famous work. For 10 points, name this Italian author of The Decameron.ANSWER: Giovanni Boccaccio <Jose>
This scientist is the first namesake of a strip reaction in which a deuterium nucleus gives a neutron to a heavier nucleus, causing the release of a proton. A Physical Review paper written by Hartland Snyder and this physicist provided the modern concept of a black hole. With Tolman and Volkoff, he calculated the upper bound on the mass of a neutron star. He is the second namesake of a statement that permits factorization of an atomic (*) wavefunction by fixing the position of the nucleus and factoring out the electronic wavefunction, an approximation he names with Max Born. He quoted from the Bhagavad Gita after the success of the Trinity test near Alamogordo, New Mexico in 1945. For 10 points, name this American physicist who directed Los Alamos National Laboratory during the Manhattan Project.ANSWER: Robert Oppenheimer [or Julius Robert Oppenheimer] <Silverman>
In one campaign, this man vowed that his first act in office would be to fire Carey McWilliams, who did not share his anti-Japanese-American views. In 1948 this man was unable to deliver his home state for his running mate, Thomas Dewey. This man proposed a compulsory state health care system in 1945 while serving as Governor of California. Eisenhower claimed he made a "damned-fool mistake" about this successor to (*) Fred Vinson. This man was the subject of a 1961 campaign by the John Birch Society that called for his impeachment. This judge ordered that "all deliberate speed" be used to carry out his decision in a case that overturned Plessy v. Ferguson. For 10 points, name this Chief Justice of the Supreme Court who wrote the Brown v. Board decision.ANSWER: Earl Warren <Bentley> - Page 3 of 13 10. This present-day country was the place where a highly-regarded wine called cerentum was produced. Because it was manufactured by skilled swordsmiths from this present-day country, the gladius was nicknamed the sword of this place. In this present-day country, Metellus Pius was deadlocked against the rogue general Quintus Sertorius for three years until Pompey's arrival. The province corresponding to this country was divided into regions marked (*) "Citerior" and "Ulterior." The emperors Hadrian and Trajan were born in what is now this country, where the siege of Saguntum triggered the start of the Second Punic War. The Visigoths settled in this country and its smaller western neighbor. For 10 points, name this present-day country corresponding to the Roman province of Hispania.
The final section of this poem claims that "it was evening all afternoon". A man who "rode over Connecticut in a glass coach" mistook the subject of this poem for "the shadow of his equipage". Its speaker claims to know "noble accents and lucid, inescapable rhythms" but notes that the subject of the poem "is involved in what I know". This poem contrasts the "beauty of inflections" with the "beauty of (*) innuendos". One section of this poem opens by mentioning the "thin men of Haddam", while in another, the speaker looks through icicles for the shadow of the title creature, whose eye is the only moving thing "among twenty snowy mountains". For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem about various perspectives on a certain animal.ANSWER: "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird" <Sy>
This artist painted stones falling out of the arches of a building while the king who ordered its construction oversees his workers. He made a series of six panels depicting different times of the year, although the panel depicting late spring is lost. In one of those paintings, three men and their dogs return from an unsuccessful trip, and silhouettes can be seen ice skating in the distance. In another of his paintings, bowls of soup at a (*) feast are carried on a door that has been removed from its hinges. This artist of The Tower of Babel and Hunters in the Snow painted a mythical character drowning in the sea, unnoticed by the shepherd on a cliff. For 10 points, name this Flemish painter of The Peasant Wedding and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.ANSWER: Pieter Bruegel the Elder <Rosenberg>
This event disrupted a community of drug-addled aristocrats called the Happy Valley set. During this event, prisoners classified as "White," "Grey," and "Black," were moved up and down the Pipeline concentration camp system. In response to this event, land was redistributed to families via the Swynnerton Plan. Rawson Macuria claimed that participants in this event practiced blood-drinking initiations during the trial of the Kapenguria Six. General (*) China led forces in this conflict, during which Operation Anvil occurred. This rebellion prompted Governor Evelyn Baring to declare a State of Emergency, and it was begun by the Kikuyu-dominated Land and Freedom Army. For 10 points, name this rebellion against British rule in Kenya.ANSWER: Mau Mau Uprising [or equivalents such as Mau Mau Rebellion; or Kenya Emergency until "Kenya" is read] <Brownstein>
This author wrote a poem that describes a scene "in the childhood of the world" in which a group calls for "milky sap" and "honey from the hollow oak". A mention of a "still, small voice of calm" ends a poem by this man that was the source of the hymn "Dear Lord and Father of Mankind". The uncle tells hunting stories and the schoolmaster relays news from Dartmouth in a poem by this man whose speaker wakes up after a storm to "no cloud above, no earth below, / a universe of (*) sky and snow!" In a poem by this author of "The Brewing of Soma", Stonewall Jackson orders his men not to harm the title character, who says "Shoot, if you must, this old gray head, / But spare your country's flag". For 10 points, name this Quaker poet of "SnowBound" and "Barbara Frietchie".ANSWER: John Greenleaf Whittier <Carson> - Page 4 of 13 15. This man was abandoned by his cosmographer Ruy Faleiro, who either went insane or was spooked by an unfavorable horoscope. This man suppressed a mutiny on Easter day led by Juan de Cartagena (car-taHAY-na), an event chronicled by the scholar Antonio Pigafetta. This man ran into trouble when the San Antonio abandoned the other ships at the Cape of the Virgins. Charles I of (*) Spain asked this man to find a route to the Spice Islands. The chieftain Lapu-Lapu is revered as a hero on the island of Cebu for defeating this man. Juan Sebastian del Cano, sailing aboard the Victoria, completed the voyage after this man was killed by natives in the Battle of Mactan in 1521 in the Philippines. For 10 points, name this explorer who led the first expedition to circumnavigate the Earth.
In 20th century philosophy, the question of what does or doesn't count as this activity was the "problem of demarcation." A 1962 book defined the "normal" type of this activity as an accumulation of results from "problem-solving," and used Wittgenstein's image of the "duckrabbit" to show how different types of it might perceive differnetly. This activity is disrupted during times of "paradigm shift" according to philosopher (*) Thomas Kuhn, and its claims must be falsifiable according to Karl Popper's work on this type of discovery. In 1620, a new way of doing this was proposed in Novum Organum. For 10 points, name this method of academic inquiry championed by Francis Bacon, whose "revolutions" might replace ideas such as Newtonian physics with special relativity.ANSWER: science [or scientific method; or scientific research; or scientific revolutions] <Jackson>
The second subject of this symphony's first movement is unusually stated in the submediant G major in the exposition, but in D major in the recapitulation. The second movement is marked "andante con moto" and is in E major. Although not premiered until 1865, decades after its composer's death, this is the earliest symphony in B minor in the standard repertoire. August Ludwig modified this symphony by (*) adding a "Philosopher's Scherzo" and a "March of Destiny." It has been theorized that an entr'acte from the composer's incidental music to Rosamunde was intended to serve as the finale. It was followed up by its composer's "Great" C Major symphony. For 10 points, name this symphony by Franz Schubert with only two complete movements.ANSWER: Unfinished Symphony [or Franz Schubert's Symphony No. 8; Schubert's name is not required after it is read] <Rosenberg>
This compound has two ESCA peaks, at 14.2 and 22.9 electron-volts, which valence bond theory cannot predict. This is the simplest compound whose bond angles exactly equal the arccosine of negative onethird. Bacteria can metabolize glucose to three molecules of carbon dioxide and three molecules of this compound. It reacts with water during steam reforming to make syngas, and it is triply chlorinated to make (*) chloroform. This compound is stored in ice in clathrates. After carbon dioxide, this compound is the second most common greenhouse gas emitted by humans. It is the most reduced form of carbon. One mole of this compound combusts with oxygen to form one mole of carbon dioxide and two moles of water. For 10 points, name this tetrahedral alkane found in natural gas, with formula CH4.ANSWER: methane [or CH4 until it is read] <Silverman>
The lumen of this structure contains BiP, or binding immunoglobulin protein. The desmotubule passes through the plasmodesmata and links two of these organelles in adjacent cells. In eukaryotes, signal recognition particle targets proteins and sends them to the translocons on this organelle's membrane. In excitation-contraction coupling, large stores of (*) calcium are released from a specialized form of this organelle in myocytes. One form of this organelle metabolizes lipids and detoxifies drugs, whereas another type is covered with ribosomes. Membrane-bound vesicles shuttle between the Golgi apparatus and this organelle. For 10 points, name this organelle, a network of flattened sacs that comes in "smooth" and "rough" forms.ANSWER: endoplasmic reticulum [or sarcoplasmic reticulum; or ER; or SR; or smooth endoplasmic reticulum; or smooth ER; or SER; or rough endoplasmic reticulum; or rough ER; or RER] <Gupta> - Page 5 of 13 20. This man is once taunted for having "the face of a dog but the heart of a deer." This man is forced from the battlefield by a wound inflicted by Coon (co-ON), who tries to avenge his brother Iphidamas. This man enters his house on an ornate purple carpet with his war bride, Cassandra, in tow. After Apollo sends a plague in response to this man's capture of Chryseis, he pilfers another man's war prize (*) Briseis. This man is ensnared in a robe and chopped with an axe in his bath by Aegisthus and his adulterous wife. This man, who sacrifices his daughter Iphigenia to garner a favorable wind for his fleet, alienates Achilles at the start of the Iliad. For 10 points. name this king of Mycenae and husband of Clytemnestra, who leads the Greeks during the Trojan War.
A chapter in this text likens virtuous people to newborns who have a strong grip despite their brittle bones and weak muscles. According to this text, the Heaven and Earth are just as heartless as humans who fashion straw dogs to use in sacrifices. The sixth chapter of this text exalts the "mysterious female" for her role in bridging Heaven and Earth. This text declares that "Knowing others is (*) intelligence," but "Knowing yourself is true wisdom." The second line of this text declares that "the names that can be named are not unvarying names." This text, which is more popular than the similar Zhuangzi, (JUANG zeh) promotes a paradoxical action through non-action, known as wu wei. For 10 points, name this key Taoist text sometimes named for its author, Lao-tzu.ANSWER: Daodejing [or Tao Te Ching; or Lao-tzu before mentioned] <Gupta>
This author wrote a story in which a syphilitic soldier overhears a conversation between Scipio and Berganza about how they can talk even though they are animals. After one of this man's characters refuses to pay at an inn, another character is wrapped in a blanket and tossed up and down. A rash of spurious sequels to a work that this man initially attributed to (*) "Cide Hamete Benengeli" caused him to write a continuation ten years later. "The Colloquy of the Dogs" is one of this man's Exemplary Novels. The title character of another of his novels confuses a washbasin for the helmet of Mambrino, names his horse Rocinante and an unsuspecting village girl Dulcinea, and tilts at windmills with his friend Sancho Panza. For 10 points, name this author of Don Quixote.ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes <Jose>
This man called for leniency in punishing James Nayler for recreating Christ's entry into Jerusalem. This man was given the power to appoint a new chamber of government in the Humble Petition and Advice. This man built a pontoon bridge over the Thames to win the Battle of Worcester, one year to the day after he defeated the Scots at the Battle of Dunbar. This man's son-in-law Henry Ireton was captured by Prince (*) Rupert of the Rhine at the Battle of Naseby. Large numbers of prisoners and civilians were killed during the Siege of Drogheda during this man's invasion of Ireland. This commander of the New Model Army was briefly succeeded by his son, Richard, who himself was succeeded by Charles II. For 10 points, name this Lord Protector of England.ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell <Bentley>
El Greco painted at least six versions of a scene where this man weeps in prayer while an angel sits on an unoccupied grave in the background. He's not St. Matthew, but a woman and a soldier join this man in pointing a finger at himself in a Caravaggio painting. This man kneels and receives the title objects in front of an octagonal temple in a painting by Pietro Perugino. In a cycle of paintings of this figure partially executed by Masolino, he is shown baptizing the (*) Neophytes. This man appears three times in a mural in the Brancacci Chapel whose left-most scene depicts him catching a fish. That mural is Masaccio's The Tribute Money. For 10 points, name this apostle who Perugino painted receiving the keys to the church, thus making him the first Pope.ANSWER: Saint Peter [or Simon Peter; prompt on Simon] <Bentley>
The speaker of a poem in this collection desires to "plant on you for the first time the lips of a determin'd man" and asks "What is this that frees me so in storms?" A poem in this collection compares the speaker's soul "surrounded, in measureless oceans of space" to a creature standing "on a little promontory" which launches "filament, filament, filament, out of itself". "One Hour to Madness and Joy" and "A (*) Noiseless Patient Spider" are found in this collection, later editions of which added a poem that opens by describing how "the great star early droop'd in the western sky" and mourns the death of Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points, name this collection that includes "When Lilacs Last in Dooryard Bloom'd" and "Song of Myself", and was written by Walt Whitman.ANSWER: Leaves of Grass <Cheng>
During this event, its organizer was treated by a doctor named Nelson for his malaria, which forced him to be carried in a litter. This event was publicized by the journalist Edgar Snow, who interviewed its leaders in its aftermath. The heavily mythologized Battle of Luding Bridge occurred as part of this event, during which the German adviser Otto Braun lost influence in the (*) Zunyi Conference. A year after this event, hostilities temporarily ceased when the Second United Front was formed to fight the Japanese. It began after 130,000 soldiers and civilians escaped the Encirclement Campaigns in the Jiangxi Province, and ended when several thousand troops reached the Shaanxi Province. For 10 points, name this 1935 to 1936 "March" of Chinese Communist forces led by Mao Zedong.ANSWER: Long March of the Red Army [or Hongjung Chang Zheng] <Wang>
These creatures fight King Arthur's army concurrently with a game of chess during a bizarre dream of Rhonabwy. This animal form is the most frequently one assumed by a wounded deity that becomes healed after offering a tired hero three drinks of milk. One of these animals approaches a dying hero who is trying to keep himself upright by tying his body to a tall rock. The Morrigan most frequently assumes this (*) bird form, such as when she perches on Cu Chulainn's shoulder to foreshadow his death. Odin is brought news from all over the world by two of these birds that personify thought and memory. This bird doubles as a creator god and as a trickster god in many Native American cultures. For 10 points, name this bird which often portends death due to its black color.ANSWER: ravens [or crows; prompt on birds until mentioned] <Kim> - Page 2 of 13 5. A dry-land-set painting by Thomas Eakins shows men competing in this sport in front of a man using a rowing machine. In The World According to Garp, Garp is murdered while acting as Ernie Holm's replacement in this sport. The Achaeans get bored of watching this sport at the funeral games for Patroclus, so Achilles declares that Ajax the Greater and (*) Odysseus both win. In Japanese lore, kappa sometimes challenge their victims to this sport. Paul Gauguin's Vision after the Sermon depicts two characters engaging in this sport; that painting was inspired by a Biblical instance of it in which one competitor gets his hip dislocated. For 10 points, name this sport that results in Jacob being renamed Israel after competing with an angel.
The Stone-Weierstrass theorem proves the existence of a uniformly converging series of these things. Runge's phenomenon arises when using these functions to interpolate, so combinations of them called splines are often used instead. If two functions of this type are equal at infinitely many points, then they are the same, a fact that follows from the (*) fundamental theorem of algebra. Differentiable functions can be locally approximated as these functions using Taylor expansion. Rational functions are the ratio of two of them. When you multiply two of them together, the degree of the new function of this type is the sum of the degrees of the previous two. For 10 points, what functions contain sums of coefficients times powers of variables, like two xcubed plus x?ANSWER: polynomials <Schindler>
The polytropic index for an ideal gas undergoing an isothermal process equals this number. The Hill coefficient for myoglobin binding oxygen is closest to this number. The sum of spin equals this number for a triplet state. In high-temperature proton NMR, cyclohexane has this many peaks.The Lyman series corresponds to this value for N in the Rydberg equation. This value is the van't Hoff factor for (*) glucose. This number is the most common oxidation state of silver. p orbitals have at most this angular momentum quantum number. Hypochlorite has this many oxygen atoms. In Daltons, this is the weight of a hydrogen atom. For 10 points, give the number of neutrons in deuterium, or the number of protons in hydrogen.ANSWER: one [or equivalents] <Silverman>
One of this author's protagonists finds a letter addressed to a person in Germany in the captain's cabin of the Esperança, but burns it rather than turning it in to the authorities. This author, who divided his literary output into "novels" and "entertainments", created a character who is blackmailed into diamond smuggling after Yusef discovers his affair with Helen Rolt. Another of this author's protagonists befriends Mr. Tench and (*) Coral Fellows, but is betrayed by the mestizo. Major Henry Scobie commits suicide at the end of one novel by this author, while in another novel a police lieutenant travels across Mexico in pursuit of an unnamed "whisky priest". For 10 points, name this English Catholic author of The Heart of the Matter and The Power and the Glory.ANSWER: Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene] <Carson>
A politician with this surname made his fortune in the screw business and won the support of the "Birmingham caucus" as mayor of that city. A politician with this surname spent his early career on the sisal plantation in the Bahamas belonging to his father, Joseph, who loudly supported Britain's entry into the Second Boer War as Colonial Secretary. A British politician with this surname won the Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating the Locarno Treaties. The half-brother of (*) Austen with this surname succeeded Stanley Baldwin and assented to the annexation of the Sudetenland. For 10 points, give the surname of the British Prime Minister who promised "peace for our time" after signing the Munich Agreement with Hitler and was criticized for his policy of "appeasement."ANSWER: Chamberlain <Bentley> - Page 3 of 13 10. One million people attended a rally at the city of Grozny to protest the activities of this company. This company was sued for wrongful termination after firing an employee who cited a rumor that a political leader's son was going to convert to Judaism before marriage. The Republican Marches happened in solidarity with this company, whose employee Sigolene (*) Vinson was spared by men who said "I'm not killing you because you are a woman." Two days after an attack on this company, Amedy Coulibaly took several hostages at a kosher supermarket. Supporters of free speech rallied behind the slogan "Je suis" [this company]. For 10 points, name this satirical French magazine that was targeted by a 2015 terrorist attack for its cartoons depicting Muhammad.
Anyone who recites a chapter telling the story of the seven sleepers of Ephesus on this day will be blessed until the next iteration of this day. Muhammad al-Bukhari reports that on this day, angels guard the gates of mosques and record the name of entrants on a scroll in chronological order. It's not an Eid, but sermons known as Khutbah are said on this day, and edifices known as Jama Masjid are specifically built for services on this day. On this day, the dhuhr (*) prayer just after noon is replaced by the Jumu'ah, which is part of a service that all Muslims are obligated to attend. Most Muslim countries have made this day the legal day of rest. For 10 points, name this day of the week, the holiest in Islam.ANSWER: Friday [or Jumu'ah until it is read; prompt on Islamic Sabbath or related answers] <Gupta>
A style of arpeggiated lute music from this country has a name that translates to "broken style." A type of overture named for this country had a slow part in dotted rhythms and a fast fugato part. A composer from this country included pieces such as "The Cyclopes" and "The Hen" in his five suites of harpsichord pieces and wrote Treatise on Harmony. Another included pieces like "The Mysterious Barricades" in his four books of harpsichord pieces and also wrote The (*) Art of Playing the Harpsichord. Opera in this country was founded by an Italian-born composer who died from stabbing himself with a conducting staff. The bourrée and gavotte are dances from here. For 10 points, name this country home to the Couperin family, Jean-Baptiste Lully, and Jean-Philippe Rameau.ANSWER: France <Kothari>
The key figure in this event said its effect on the world was "like a match lighting a bonfire." Harry F. Knight and Harold Bixby put up much of the funding needed to accomplish this action, which its achiever chronicled just weeks later in a popular memoir entitled "WE". A 25,000-dollar reward from the owner of the Lafayette and Brevoort hotels known as the (*) Orteig Prize was awarded for this feat, which relied on an engine known as the Wright Whirlwind. The man who accomplished this feat later became the spokesman for the isolationist America First Committee, and lost his baby a half-decade later to a kidnapper. For 10 points, name this feat which ended at Le Bourget field, a 1927 solo aeronautic feat done in The Spirit of St. Louis.ANSWER: Charles Lindbergh's transatlantic flight [or Charles Lindbergh's flight from New York to Paris; or the first transatlantic flight; or the first flight from New York to Paris; or the first flight from North America to Europe; accept winning the Orteig Prize before "Orteig"] <Bentley>
A novel set in one of these places features Thady Quirk, an early example of an unreliable narrator, and was written by Maria Edgeworth. A group of otherwise-mute travelers are able to only speak with tarot cards in a novel titled for one of these places written by Italo Calvino. The protagonist of a novel titled for one of these structures is assigned the assistants Arthur and Jeremiah and uses the messenger Barnabas in his many efforts to schedule a meeting with (*) Klamm. That example of these structures is located near the Herrenhof Inn, where a land-surveyor struggles against the endless bureaucratic roadblocks it produces. For 10 points, a man named K. tries to enter what type of structure in an unfinished novel by Franz Kafka?ANSWER: castles [accept Castle Rackrent or The Castle of Crossed Destinies or The Castle or Das Schloss] <Jose> - Page 4 of 13 15. In prokaryotes, this process is down-regulated by the binding of GATC sequences to SeqA. During this process, three molecules of PCNA act as a "sliding clamp" holding an enzyme to its substrate. This process starts at regions denoted "ori," and is performed by an enzyme that yields the Klenow fragment when cleaved. By growing E. coli in media with the 14 and 15 isotopes of nitrogen, the (*) Meselson-Stahl experiment demonstrated that this process was semiconservative. In this process, which takes place during the S phase of the cell cycle, the enzyme ligase I joins Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand, which diverges from the leading strand at this process's namesake fork. For 10 points, name this process of making two identical copies of one DNA molecule.
In 2008, Giulio Pozzo substituted a biprism for these objects in a single-electron experiment first hypothesized by Richard Feynman. The intensity distribution from a single one of these objects in the Fraunhofer setup is proportional to the sine squared of half the phase shift. A grating contains a large number of them. The distance (*) between these objects, multiplied by the sine of the angular distance theta, will be either a half-integer or whole-integer multiple of the wavelength. According to complementarity, it's impossible to ascertain which of these things a photon passed through. For 10 points, name these objects which diffracted light onto a screen in an experiment conducted by Thomas Young.ANSWER: double slits <Silverman>
The historic Hotel Evropa was demolished in the riots following this event. This event was planned by a colonel who had overthrown King Alexander and Queen Draga in a military coup 11 years earlier, codenamed "Apis." During this event, which took place at the northern end of the Latin Bridge, a man begged Sophie to "live for our children." One of this event's planners failed to commit suicide by swallowing (*) expired cyanide and jumping into a shallow river. It sparked the July Crisis, during which the aggrieved country issued an intentionally unreasonable ultimatum in an attempt to provoke war. This event was perpetrated by a member of the Black Hand terrorist group named Gavrilo Princip. For 10 points, name this 1914 event in Sarajevo that sparked the first World War.ANSWER: assassination of Franz Ferdinand [accept equivalents that include Franz Ferdinand and the act of killing or murdering him; prompt on partial answers] <Wang>
Joseph Koch decorated four rooms devoted to this author in the Villa Massimi. A character created by this author bites his own fingers as he's embraced by some naked youth in a sculpture by Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux. He's not François Villon, but this author provided the source material for a sculpture of an elderly former model who stares at the ground titled The Old Courtesan, and for the Atlas-like man in the sculpture (*) I Am Beautiful. A man bites the bow of a ship as this author, wearing a red hood, recoils in horror in an 1822 painting by Eugene Delacroix titled for his "barque." In a sculpture inspired by this author, a man holds his hand to his chin in a thinking pose. For 10 points, name this author whose work inspired Rodin's The Gates of Hell.ANSWER: Dante Alighieri [or Durante degli Alighieri] <Bentley>
A character in this play describes hearing an oracle commanding him to "Gore them like a bull!" In this play, a morose nurse gives a speech about how babies must be taken care of because they cannot think for themselves. A speech by this play's chorus begins "Oh, the torment bred in the race." Two men speak like Parnassians to gain access to the royal palace in this play, in which a woman dreams of a (*) snake that drinks milk from her breast, then bites her, drawing blood. This play opens with the disguised protagonist approaching his father's grave with Pylades and placing two locks of hair on it, after which he is recognized by his sister Electra. For 10 points, name this play in which Orestes kills Aegisthus and Clytemnestra, the second in Aeschylus's Oresteia.ANSWER: The Libation Bearers [or Choephoroi] <Sy> - Page 5 of 13 20. This man harshly attacked the doctrine of "probabilism" in the first of a set of eighteen writings for which he used the pseudonym Louis de Montalte. This man sewed a page of writing into his coat to remember his "night of fire," a transformative mystical experience. This man jumped into the formulary controversy by defending Antoine Arnauld and the Port Royal abbey, whose religious views were under threat. He argued in posthumously-published writings that the prospect of eternal (*) damnation is so bad that it's safer to receive the sacraments even if one is skeptical. For 10 points, name this author of the pro-Jansensist Provincial Letters, a French philosopher and mathematician whose Pensees (pahn-SAYz) include a namesake theological "wager."
An author who returned to this country, his ancestral homeland, in 1935 made his name with the novel Wolf Solent. An author from this country wrote about people who "though they sink through the sea they shall rise again" in a poem that describes a time when "though lovers be lost love shall not". A character from this adopted home of John Cowper Powys (COO-per POW-iss) holds Edmund Mortimer captive and proposes lending his (*) magic to Hotspur's rebellion in Henry IV, Part 1. A poet from this country wrote "And death shall have no dominion" and a poem that urges the addressee to "Rage, rage against the dying of the light". For 10 points, name this country, the birthplace of Owen Glendower and the author of "Do not go gentle into that good night", Dylan Thomas.ANSWER: Wales [or Cymru; prompt on Great Britain or the United Kingdom or the U.K.; do not accept or prompt on "England"] <Carson>
Soldiers adhering to this religion prayed to a goddess of light and the sun named Marici before battles. People float paper lanterns down a river at the culmination of a three-day summer festival in this religion for honoring ancestors, called Obon. Atop Mount Hiei, many members of this religion's clergy trained for combat. Two esoteric schools of this religion, introduced by Kukai and Saicho, were respectively known as (*) Shingon and Tendai. Practitioners of one form of this religion strive to attain an initial insight known as kensho, or satori, and practice the contemplation of statements and questions known as koans. For 10 points, name this religion which has blended heavily with Shinto in Japan, where the "Zen" type is particularly popular.ANSWER: Buddhism [accept specific types, such as Zen Buddhism] <Gupta>
One person at issue during this event was Charles Maultsby, who veered off-course and got lost. A telegram whose first three words were "YOUR ACTION DESPERATE" was sent during this event by Bertrand Russell. An operation misleadingly codenamed with the place name Anadyr preceded this event, which was chronicled in the memoir Thirteen (*) Days. The claim "I am prepared to wait until Hell freezes over" was made by UN Ambassador Adlai Stevenson during this event, which inspired the creation of a "hotline" between two world capitals. It was resolved when the Americans agreed to secretly remove its Jupiter weapons from Turkey. For 10 points, name this tense period in 1962 which began when nuclear weapons were discovered in a country ruled by Fidel Castro.ANSWER: Cuban Missile Crisis [prompt on October Crisis] <Bentley>
These elements undergo oxidative additions and reductive eliminations. The sum of group number, charge, and the number of covalent and dative bonds is used to count electrons for these elements, and that number adds up to around 18. The N plus L rule was formulated after observing that some of these elements lose an electron from their valence shell to half-fill a (*) lower-energy shell. Most heterogeneous catalysts are composed of these elements. The orbitals of these elements split according to crystal field theory, which explains why solutions of them are often colorful. Lewis bases coordinating these elements form octahedral complexes and are called ligands. For 10 points, name these elements with unfilled d orbitals, which occupy the center of the Periodic Table.ANSWER: transition metals [or transition elements; prompt on metals] <Silverman>
A stock-broker from this city takes a train to Chicago with his suicidal cousin after that cousin's fiance is killed in a car crash. In this city, a janitor who frequently exclaims "woo-ee!" and a woman who appears as Harlett O'Hara in a cockatoo-related striptease act both work at the Night of Joy Bar. A character from this city dresses as a pirate while running a hot dog stand. Binx Bolling lives in this city in Walker Percy's The (*) Moviegoer. A character from this city hates Greyhound Buses, organizes a strike at Levy Pants to impress Myrna Minkoff, and always wears a green felt hat. Ignatius J. Reilly lives in this city in John Kennedy Toole's A Confederacy of Dunces. For 10 points, name this Gulf Coast city in Louisiana.ANSWER: New Orleans, Louisiana <Brownstein>
On intermediary days in Judaism, it is forbidden to deliver hesped during these events. In Islam, three fist-sized spheres are poured while reading Quranic verses during these events, which are called janazah. In Hinduism, the conductor of this ceremony sprinkles sesame seeds and rice, draws a line representing Yama, and reminds attendees to go home and shower as soon as possible. The Prayer of Absolution in Eastern Orthodoxy or the Absolute in Catholicism is said during this event. After this ceremony in Judaism, people (*) "sit Shiva" for seven days of sustained bereavement. This is the most frequent setting at which the Requiem Mass is sung. For 10 points, name these events, which in different religions usually culminates in either cremation or burial of a corpse.ANSWER: funerals [accept burials before mention; accept cremations before mention; or janazah before mention; or antyesti] <Gupta>
Neil Cohn studies works of this type from a linguistics perspective. William Gaines was asked about a depiction of a decapitated woman in a Senate investigation of these works led by Estes Kefauver. Fredric Wertham's book Seduction of the Innocent attacked these publications. A book titled for Understanding them includes analyses by Scott McCloud. Guidelines such as "in every (*) instance good shall triumph over evil" were enforced by their namesake Code Authority. In part due to allegations that they promoted juvenile delinquency, the "Golden Age" of these publications ended in the 1950s. Jewish authors such as Jerry Siegel, Joe Shuster, and Will Eisner all worked on them. For 10 points, name these publications that introduced The Spirit and Superman.ANSWER: comic books [or comics; or superhero comics; or Golden Age comics; accept graphic novels during the first sentence; do not accept "comic strips"] <Weiser> - Page 2 of 13 5. A poet from this country wrote "Generous reader / Burn this book" in "I Take Back Everything I've Said", one of his anti-poems. Another poet from this country instructed "You shall love beauty, which is the shadow of God over the Universe" in "Decalogue of the Artist" and included the line "I will lower you to the humble and sunny ground" in one of her Sonnets of (*) Death. A poem by an author from this country repeats "It is the hour of departure" and tells a "Pale blind diver" that "In you, everything sank!" A collection from this country concludes with the poem "Tonight I can write the saddest lines." For 10 points, name this home of Nicanor Parra, Gabriela Mistral, and the author of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, Pablo Neruda.
In one portrait, this artist painted his mistress Madeleine Knobloch powdering herself. A bassist with his back to the viewer stands under leg-kicking dancers in his painting, Le Chahut (sha-oo). An acrobat does a backflip while a woman in yellow stands on a white horse in his unfinished Circus. His best-known painting hangs to the left of the three title nude women within his painting The Models. His (*) Bathers at Asnieres is set on the opposite riverbank from another painting now in the Art Institute of Chicago. That painting features a woman holding a monkey on a leash, and is painted using small dots that blur together when viewed from a distance. For 10 points, name this Pointillist artist of A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.ANSWER: Georges Seurat <Bentley>
A manifesto named for this city declared that the dynasty of Sultan al-Hakim was of Jewish descent and was thus illegitimate. This city was the headquarters of an inquisition called the Mihna, which punished opponents of the Mu'tazilite school. A family descended from Buddhist priests, the Barmakids, held power in this city. During an event in this city, a river here supposedly ran black with ink and its leader was rolled up in a carpet and (*) trampled by horses. The Banu Musa brothers and the mathematician alKhwarizmi worked in this city's House of Wisdom. Hulagu Khan sacked this city in 1258, ending its rule by a dynasty that had included al-Mansur and Harun al-Rashid. For 10 points, name this capital of the Abbasid caliphate and of modern-day Iraq.ANSWER: Baghdad, Iraq <Brownstein>
One speech accused a politician of this surname of a "common plan or draft" drawn up with "Franklin and Roger and James." A Supreme Court justice with this last name faced impeachment hearings in the Senate after he briefly stayed the execution of the Rosenbergs. He later wrote the majority opinion establishing a right to privacy in Griswold v. Connecticut. A politician with this last name ran for President with running mate Herschel V. Johnson and devised the (*) Freeport Doctrine. That politician of this last name, known as the "Little Giant," engineered the Kansas-Nebraska Act during his time as a senator from Illinois before the Civil War. For 10 points, give this surname of Stephen, a politician who engaged in seven debates with future president Abraham Lincoln.ANSWER: Douglas [or William Orville Douglas; or Stephen Arnold Douglas] <Bentley>
Achates (uh-KAY-tees) and his best friend first arrive in this city enshrouded in a magical cloud. At a banquet held in this city, a man recounts tearing the branches of a tree, only to have dark blood spill out, since the tree was the spirit of Polydorus. Anna is the sister of the ruler of this city, which boasts a grand mural depicting the Trojan War. Two lovers first have sex in a cave outside this city where they take (*) shelter from the rain. Aeolus blows a fleet off course, causing it to end up on a shore near this city beloved by Juno. The ruler of this city, who had fled Tyre to establish a new homeland, throws herself onto a funeral pyre when she learns that her lover is departing for Italy. For 10 points, name this North African city ruled by Dido in the Aeneid.ANSWER: Carthage <Gupta> - Page 3 of 13 10. The protagonist of a novel from this country encounters Marenda, who has a deformed arm, Lydia, with whom he has an affair, and the ghost of an author from this country who wrote the symbolist epic Message. The protagonist of another novel from this country befriends the "dog of tears". Another novel by the same writer from this country opens with an election in which 83% of people cast (*) blank ballots. A poet from this country wrote under many "heteronyms", including one reused by an author who wrote a novel in which the Doctor's Wife stabs the King of Ward 3 and is the only one not afflicted with the title condition. For 10 points, name this home of Fernando Pessoa and the author of The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis and Blindness, José Saramago.
A benign Warthin tumor may form in a structure that produces this substance. An elevated level of cortisol in this substance at midnight indicates Cushing's syndrome. The painkiller opiorphin was isolated from this substance. Its production decreases in xerostomia. The bird genus Aerodramus, which lives in rural China, creates its nests out of this substance. HHV-6, the causative agent of roseola, is transmitted solely through this substance, and (*) mononucleosis gets its nickname from being transmitted in it. The submandibular, sublingual, and parotid glands secrete this liquid, which transforms food into a bolus and begins the process of digesting starch. For 10 points, name this mostly watery liquid found in the mouths of humans.ANSWER: saliva [prompt on spittle] <Gupta>
A popular legend recounts how this man drew inspiration from seeing a spider spin a web while he hid in a cave on Rathlin Island. Pope Clement V excommunicated this rival of John "the Red" Comyn, who supported the overthrow of a king nicknamed "empty coat" for the ripping-off of his seal after the Battle of Dunbar. The kingship of this successor to John Balliol was the subject of a letter directed to Pope John XXII, called the Declaration of (*) Arbroath. This man's sovereignty was recognized by the Treaty of Northampton. Near the River Forth, this man defeated a force attempting to relieve a siege of Stirling Castle and won a decisive victory over Edward II at the Battle of Bannockburn. For 10 points, name this king who won the First War of Scottish Independence.ANSWER: Robert I [or Robert the Bruce; or Robert Brus; or Roibert a Briuis; or Robert de Bruys; or Raibeart Bruis; prompt on Robert] <Yu>
The LRL vector is usually scaled by the namesake vector of this quantity. This quantity equals the square root of 1 plus two times the energy times angular momentum squared over the mass times Big G squared. This quantity multiplies the sine of its namesake anomaly, then is subtracted from that anomaly, in order to calculate the mean anomaly. For Earth, this quantity is approximately 0.016. This quantity multiplies the cosine of the angle to the point of (*) closest approach in the denominator of a mathematical description of Kepler's First Law. The nonzero value for this quantity explains why the time between equinoxes is not equal. For 10 points, name this quantity which represents the ratio of focal length and semimajor axis length for an elliptical orbit, symbolized epsilon.ANSWER: eccentricity [or epsilon until it is read] <Silverman>
Massachusetts Bay governor William Shirley failed to placate thousands of people protesting this practice. Trinity House offered protections against all but the "hot" type of this practice, which escalated at the county level through the passage of the 1795 Quota Acts. An urban legend states that this practice was accomplished by depositing a king's shilling in a man's ale glass. Like (*) penal transportation, it has its legal basis in the Vagrancy Act of 1597. Four men were subject to this practice in the Chesapeake-Leopard affair, prompting Thomas Jefferson to sign the retaliatory Embargo Act. This practice was carried out by men in "press gangs" and was a key cause of the War of 1812. For 10 points, name this practice of forcing sailors to man British warships.ANSWER: naval impressment [or word forms, such as impressing; accept answers indicating being pressed into service; prompt on naval recruitment; do not accept or prompt on "shanghaiing"] <Bentley> - Page 4 of 13 15. This organization was designed during a secret meeting on Jekyll Island held between Nelson Aldrich and leading businessmen. In 2007, this organization introduced a temporary program called the Term Auction Facility that released short term funds to anonymous bidders. This organization's policy is set by its namesake Open Market Committee that includes the Board of Governors, the governor of its (*) New York branch, and 4 of its remaining 11 branch governors. This institution uses the discount window and, under its first female leader, has introduced quantitative easing to help achieve its dual-mandate of maximum employment and stable prices. For 10 points, name this Janet Yellen-led U.S. central bank that is independent from the Treasury.
This composer's fifth symphony was originally in four movements but he fused the first two together for the final version. That symphony closes with six tutti chords separated by silence and opens with a horn call in E-flat. His violin concerto opens with the orchestral violins playing muted D minor arpeggios and is the only concerto he ever wrote. His seventh and last symphony, which includes a theme named for his wife (*) Aino, is in only one movement and in C major. He used the English horn to depict a bird swimming through the underworld in "The Swan of Tuonela". His most frequently-performed symphony is his D major second, often considered a nationalist statement inspired by his Scandinavian homeland. For 10 points, name this composer of Finlandia.ANSWER: Jean Sibelius <Rosenberg>
A former senator from this state helped get John Yettaw out of prison, after Yettaw trespassed on the estate where Aung San Suu Kyi was under house arrest. The sudden June 2014 resignation of Democrat Philip Puckett from its State Senate ended a 20-20 partisan deadlock. Libertarian Bob Sarvis got 6.5% of the vote against its current governor, who oversaw a failed factory in Mississippi as chairman of the electric car company (*) GreenTech Automotive. From 2007 to 2013, a Democrat and former Marine named Jim Webb was one of its senators. Recent Democratic gains in this state's suburban north led to narrow losses for Republicans Ed Gillespie and Ken Cuccinelli. For 10 points, what "swing state" governed by Terry McAuliffe is represented in the Senate by Mark Warner?ANSWER: Virginia <Jackson>
Spin-aligned electrons tunnel into the "free layer" in a form of magnetoresistive RAM named for this quantity. In a noninertial reference frame, this quantity equals a time derivative in the body frame, plus omega-cross-L in the noninertial frame. The product of current, magnetic field, and the area of the loop of wire gives this quantity, if the field is oriented perpendicular to the loop. Precession is either (*) "induced" or "free" of this quantity. The sum of this quantity for the system equals moment of inertia times angular acceleration. For a pulley, this quantity equals the tension in the rope times the radius of the disk. For 10 points, name this quantity that equals force cross distance, and which causes rotational motion if it's nonzero.ANSWER: torque [or tau; or T] <Silverman>
The "Titeux dancer" sculpture from this period is one of thousands uncovered in the town of Tanagra. A sculpture from this period discovered by French consul Charles Champoiseau originally overlooked the Sanctuary of the Great Gods. Another sculpture from this period was attributed by Pliny the Elder to Athanodoros, Hagesandros, and (*) Polydoros of Rhodes, although he inaccurately claims that it was made from one block of marble. That sculpture shows a Trojan and his family in contorted poses being devoured by serpents, possibly for realizing that the Trojan horse was a ruse. For 10 points, name this period of art history which produced the Winged Victory of Samothrace and the Laocoön group, and began with the conquests of Alexander the Great.ANSWER: Hellenistic period [prompt on Ancient Greek; do not accept classical or Hellenic]<Rosenberg> - Page 5 of 13 20. This poet described himself being carried "from out our bourne of Time and Place" in a poem that describes waters "Too full for sound and foam." In that poem, this author noted that after "Twilight and evening bell" comes "the dark," and hoped that "there be no sadness of farewell" after his death. This poet penned the lines "Sunset and evening star, and one clear call for me!" in a poem that describes seeing "my (*) Pilot face to face" at his death. "All the world wondered" at the subjects of a poem by this man that begins "Half a league, half a league, half a league onward" and describes six hundred soldiers riding "into the valley of Death." For 10 points, name this British poet of "Crossing the Bar" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade."
This author created a character who imagines a "phantom salutation of the dead" as he stands "in the middle of the road / Like Roland's ghost winding a silent horn". Another of this man's characters "dreams of Thebes and Camelot / And Priam's neighbors" in a poem that describes how he "mourned Romance, now on the town / And Art, a vagrant". A man climbs a hill to drink from a jug and talk to himself in his poem "Mr. (*) Flood's Party", which like many of his short lyrics was set in the fictional Tilbury Town. A "gentleman from sole to crown" who "glittered when he walked" chooses a calm summer night to inexplicably "put a bullet through his head" in this man's most famous poem. For 10 points, name this American poet of "Miniver Cheevy" and "Richard Cory".ANSWER: Edwin Arlington Robinson <Carson>
A common ore of this element consisting of its various oxide-hydroxides is limonite. Shales and cherts alternate with minerals rich in this element in namesake banded formations of Precambrian age. A silicate of this element is fayalite, which is an endmember of the olivine group. This element commonly substitutes for magnesium in minerals that are solid solutions, including olivine. Bacteria that oxidize this element, such as Gallionella, are a common fouling organism in wells and create a (*) reddish-brown or orange-ish slime. The inner core consists primarily of nickel and this element. A sulfide of this element is pyrite and its most common ore is hematite. For 10 points, name this common magnetic metal in the Earth's crust, which has chemical symbol Fe.ANSWER: iron [or Fe until it is read] <Voight>
A photo taken during this war depicts a soldier marching with a flag and is entitled The Yomper. This war effectively came to an end when Mount Tumbledown was captured after a day of trench warfare. This war's main theater began with an amphibious landing at San Carlos Water and a paratroop attack on the town of Goose Green. The ship (*) General Belgrano was controversially sunk in international waters during this war, which resulted in the collapse of Leopold Galteri's military government. The South Georgia Islands were recaptured in the early stages of this war. It temporarily increased the popularity of Margaret Thatcher's government. For 10 points, name this 1980s war between Britain and Argentina over a group of disputed islands in the South Atlantic.ANSWER: Falklands War <Wang>
The ratio of two isotopes of this element is calibrated using troilite from the Canyon Diablo Meteorite. This element's namesake cycle begins with assimilative and dissimilative reduction from organic material until it is re-incorporated into organic matter. The removal of this element from fossil fuels can be done with the Claus process. A column of superheated water is used to extract this element in the (*) Frasch process. It is found bonded to lead in the mineral galena. An acid of this element is often naturally formed by weathering pyrite; along with nitric acid, that acid is the principal component of acid rain. For 10 points, name this element that is responsible for the smell of brimstone and whose odor is reminiscent of rotten eggs.ANSWER: sulfur [or S] <Jose>
Because it was deteriorating, one of these things was replaced by its artist after Steven Cohen bought the work for $8 million in 2004. These creatures dominate the bottom of an 1899 painting where the words "Anna - Key West" can be read. One of these things, preserved in formaldehyde, comprises Damien Hirst's The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living. A man standing in front of Morro Castle drives a (*) spear down towards one of these things in a 1778 painting. These creatures can be seen in the foreground while a water spout swells ominously behind the black man in Winslow Homer's The Gulf Stream. For 10 points, name these sea creatures, one of which is about to eat Brook Watson in Havana harbor in a John Singleton Copley painting.ANSWER: sharks [or tiger sharks; prompt on installation before "creatures"; prompt on first-line buzzes of animal carcasses or animal corpses] <Bentley>
The Tur Halakhic law code developed in this present-day country outlined divisions of law that correspond to each of the four rows of jewels on the priestly breastplate. A rabbi born in this country declared giving money out of pity to be the lowest form of charity, and articulated thirteen principles of faith. The Xueta community of crypto-Jews arose in this country, the birthplace of the author who traveled throughout the Middle East before writing his namesake (*) Mishnah Torah. Jews living in this country developed the language Ladino, and were called "marranos" after converting to Christianity. Most Sephardic communities developed in this country. For 10 points, name this country, from where Jews were expelled in 1492 via the Alhambra Decree issued by Ferdinand and Isabella.ANSWER: Spain [or Espana; or Kingdom of Spain; or Reino de Espana] <Gupta>
The speaker of Percy Shelley's "To a Lady, with a Guitar" compares himself to this character, who delivers an epilogue in which he is "echoed by the prompter" in W.H. Auden's The Sea and the Mirror. The actor playing this character is instructed to use a "quainte device" to make food disappear during a banquet. This character mentions a "sea-change / into something rich and strange" in a speech that begins with the line (*) "Full fathom five thy father lies", given to convince another character of Alonso's death in a shipwreck. This character was trapped in a pine by Sycorax, and was freed by a character who rewards him for matchmaking Ferdinand and Miranda. For 10 points, name this servant of Prospero, a spirit who causes the title storm of Shakespeare's The Tempest.ANSWER: Ariel <Carson> - Page 2 of 13 5. From classical times through the 19th century, the main source of this substance in Europe was Almaden in Spain. This substance is at the bottom of cells in which the Castner-Kellner process is performed, in which it serves as a cathode. This substance was used along with saltwater in vats for the "patio process" to extract silver ores at sites in New Spain such as Potosi. A bond between it and sulfur exists in each molecule of the preservative (*) thimerosal, and it also exists bonded to sulfur in the ore cinnabar. Qin Shi Huangdi allegedly died by taking pills of this substance to extend his lifespan. For 10 points, name this metal, the only one which is liquid at room temperature.
In 2000, a sanctuary for these creatures was established on the Coromandel peninsula. Eco-activist Philip Anderton faked the death of one of these creatures to inspire outrage against the pesticide 1080, which has little effect on them. A giant one of these creatures was carved in chalk on Sling Hill in England by visiting soldiers. These creatures, the smallest ratites, include a small brown-colored population which outlasted a now-extinct eagle in the Haast area. The (*) tokoeka and rowi are varieties of these birds, which are distantly related to the predatory moa which once walked the same islands. Cloaks made from them were described by James Cook. For 10 points, name these enormous-egged flightless birds, whose name is also used to refer to human New Zealanders.ANSWER: kiwi birds <Jackson>
To protect the Iazyges, this emperor ordered the construction of a fortification system called the Devil's Dykes. One of the best examples of spolia, or the reusing of earlier sculptural reliefs, is this emperor's triumphal arch next to the Colosseum. For unclear reasons, this man ordered his wife Fausta to be suffocated in an overheated bath. At the battle of Chrysopolis, this ruler, the first to use the (*) labarum, prevailed over his rival Licinius. This man gazed skyward and saw the phrase "In this sign, you shall conquer," inspiring him to adopt the Chi-Rho standard to victory over Maxentius at the Battle of Milvian Bridge. This man built his new capital on the site of ancient Byzantium. For 10 points, name this first Christian Roman emperor.ANSWER: Constantine the Great [or Constantine I; or Flavius Valerius Aurelius Constantinus Augustus] <Gupta>
This character is deeply affected by the performance of a barbershop quartet called the Four-Eyed Bastards at his eighteenth anniversary party. He has a vision of "Adam and Eve in the golden depths" while staring at a pair of boots taken from Roland Weary, who later convinces Paul Lazzaro to kill this character. This character attends the Ilium School of Optometry and marries Valencia Merble after he is released from the mental hospital where (*) Eliot Rosewater introduces him to the novels of Kilgore Trout, and he has a child with Montana Wildhack after being abducted by aliens from Tralfamadore. For 10 points, name this character who survives the firebombing of Dresden and becomes "unstuck in time", the protagonist of Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five.ANSWER: Billy Pilgrim [accept either underlined portion] <Carson>
Nitroso or nitrone compounds "trap" this quantity by forming an adduct measured in EPR spectroscopy. This quantity is high for octahedral complexes with low splitting energy. Coupling of this quantity makes doublets and triplets with peak ratios given by Pascal's triangle. This quantity allows molecular orbitals to be antisymmetric. In NMR, a magnetic field (*) "flips" this quantity. Hund's rule of maximum multiplicity says that atoms maximize the total amount of this quantity. A single-barbed arrow represents this vector quantity in configuration diagrams. Two electrons in the same orbital must have the opposite value for this quantity by the Pauli exclusion principle. For 10 points, name this measure of intrinsic angular momentum.ANSWER: spin [do not accept or prompt on "angular momentum"] <Silverman> - Page 3 of 13 10. One of these events unfolded after the newspaper Bessarabetz published a story about a girl who committed suicide in a hospital. The Black Hundreds enthusiastically participated in these events. In his book Two Hundred Years Together, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn controversially asserts that these events arose spontaneously, and Nikolai Ignatyev claimed that reducing them was the aim of passing the (*) May Laws. They happened in Kishinev in 1903 and in Odessa multiple times, and were especially common in the Pale of Settlement during the reign of Alexander III. These events were often sparked by allegations of blood libel, wherein the targets supposedly used Christian blood to bake Passover bread. For 10 points, name these organized massacres of Jews.
TPHA and FTA-ABS may be supported by a form of this technique to detect Treponema pallidum, the causative agent of syphilis. Biological samples are stabilized by cryofixation prior to undergoing a form of this technique. DAPI staining is performed before a kind of this technique that takes advantage of immunofluorescence. Live cell imaging uses a form of this technique incorporating time-lapse photography. Antonie van (*) Leeuwenhoek popularized this technique, as did the coiner of the word "cell," Robert Hooke. In a simple form of this technique, a drop of sample is placed on a slide then covered with a coverslip. For 10 points, name this technique that comes in fluorescent, electron, and light varieties, which magnifies biological objects too small to see.ANSWER: microscopy [accept word forms; or electron microscopy; or EM; or fluorescent microscopy; or light microscopy; or dark-field microscopy] <Gupta>
A writing system for people of this ethnicity was developed by Erdeni. who was patronized by a leader who declared his "Seven Grievances to Heaven." A monarch of this ethnicity put down the Revolt of the Three Feudatories and names a massive dictionary with over 40,000 entries. A leader of this ethnicity used flags to organize his troops as part of the Eight Banner System. These people forced all males to adopt their distinctive (*) hairstyle of a long pigtail down the back of the head, the queue. These people were united under Nurhaci. The long-reining Kangxi Emperor belonged to this ethnicity. The namesake home of these people was invaded following the Mukden Incident and was ruled Puyi, a puppet for the Japanese. For 10 points, name these people who ruled China during the Qing dynasty.ANSWER: Manchu people [or Manzu or Manju; or Jurchens; prompt on Chinese; do not accept or prompt on "Qing people"] <Bentley>
In a novel by this author, notes taken by Dr. Bormenthal relate the history of a character who adopts the worldview of the housing committee leader Shvonder after encountering Dr. Preobrazhensky. In a scene from another of his novels, a crowd of women are left standing in their underwear after the clothing they were given during a magic show disappears. In another of his novels, Ivan (*) Bezdomny is sent to an asylum, where he meets an author who is told "manuscripts don't burn" after he is handed a copy of his own novel about Yeshua Ha-Notsri and Pontius Pilate. In that novel, Azazello and the talking cat Behemoth are among the retinue of Professor Woland, who is Satan in disguise. For 10 points, name this author of Heart of a Dog and The Master and Margarita.ANSWER: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov] <Brownstein>
In the Iliad, these people are called antianeirai, (AN tee ah nay rai) and Priam tells Helen about when he helped King Mygdon defend Phrygia against an attack by them. Heracles reaches a cordial, but shortlived agreement with a leader of these people aboard a ship, because Hera spread a rumor that Heracles was trying to abduct that leader. After killing one of these people and mocking the corpse, Achilles removes the helmet and feels (*) remorse. These people annually mate with the Gargareans so their race doesn't die out, and they improve their archery by cutting off their right breast. A queen whose girdle is taken by Heracles, named Hippolyta, rules these people. For 10 points, name these warrior women in Greek mythology.ANSWER: Amazons [prompt on women] <Gupta> - Page 4 of 13 15. This force names the cross-terms composed of the product of two different generalized coordinates in the Euler-Lagrange equations. This force stabilizes the fourth and fifth Lagrange points. It opposes pressure in geostrophic flow. Because this force always acts perpendicular to the velocity of the bob at the end of (*) Foucault's pendulum, it does no work on the bob. The magnitude of this force is given as two times the cross product of an angular velocity and a linear velocity. The namesake coefficient of this force is proportional to the sine of the latitude and the rotation rate of Earth. It explains why a ball thrown from a carousel appears to deflect, depending on the hemisphere. For 10 points, name this fictitious force seen in rotating reference frames.
The economic independence of women was one of several links to this group's more ancient past elucidated by the sociologist Melville Herskovits. John Howard Griffin went undercover to study these people. The phrase "blaming the victim" was coined in a response to a Daniel Patrick Moynihan report on these people that critiqued the "tangled pathology" of their family structures. A book on these people concludes with a section on (*) "sorrow songs"; that same book explores the "double-consciousness" these people face behind "the veil" when the "doors of Opportunity [are] closed roughly in his face". For 10 points, name this group of people, whose "Souls" are discussed in a book by W. E. B. Du Bois and were often subject to Jim Crow Laws after the Civil War.ANSWER: African Americans [or black people; or Negroes; or black folk; accept Africans or Haitians until "John"; prompt on Americans] <Bentley>
A version of this architectural style that developed in America includes the Buffalo State Asylum and Boston's Trinity Church and is named for H.H. Richardson. Fontenay Abbey and other early Cistercian buildings were created in this style, as were Pisa Cathedral and its leaning tower. The Byzantine style in Western Europe began transforming into this one with buildings like Charlemagne's Palatine Chapel in (*) Aachen. In England, this style is called "Norman" and includes the since-replaced original Westminster Abbey and the still-extant Tower of London. The successor to this style replaced its round arches with pointed ones. For 10 points, name this European architectural style that preceded the Gothic.ANSWER: Romanesque [accept Norman until it is read] <Mehigan>
A literary character from this country poisons her devoutly-Catholic father Eugene after falling in love with the young priest Father Amadi. That character's creator is an author born in this country whose most recent novel is about two lovers, one of whom writes a blog partly titled "Raceteenth". Another literary work set in this country opens with a scene in which the protagonist tells the story of the "Not-I Bird" to the (*) Praise-Singer. The author of Purple Hibiscus and Americanah is from this country, which is the setting of a play in which Simon Pilkings attempts to prevent the ritual suicide of Elesin Oba. For 10 points, name this African nation, the birthplace of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and the playwright of Death and the King's Horseman, Wole Soyinka.ANSWER: Nigeria [or Federal Republic of Nigeria or British Nigeria] <Bentley>
John Clarke helped secure the royal charter for the colony based in this modern-day state. Six of its colonial governors, including "Judge" William Coddington, are buried in its Coddington Cemetery. John Sullivan failed to expel the British from this state in the first combined Franco-American operation in the Revolutionary War. Canochet's Fort was in this modern-day state where Josiah Winslow won the Great Swamp Fight. A less famous John Brown sunk the (*) Gaspee off of this state’s coast. In this last of the original thirteen colonies to ratify the Constitution, a haven for Antinomians was established by Anne Hutchinson. For 10 points, name this state where Roger Williams set up a refuge for religious dissidents in Providence.ANSWER: Rhode Island and Providence Plantations <Bentley> - Page 5 of 13 20. The composer of this piece re-used the music from his earlier duet "No, di voi non vo fidarmi" in one movement. In Mozart's re-orchestration of this piece, a difficult clarino trumpet solo is transferred to the horn. The first choral movement of this piece closes with a plagal cadence on the words "hath spoken it." This piece includes an instrumental Pifa interlude which is sometimes referred to as a (*) "Pastoral Symphony." The first aria in this piece promises to make "The crooked straight and the rough pieces plane" and is titled "Every Valley Shall Be Exalted." Part 3 of this work opens with the soprano aria "I know that my redeemer liveth." For 10 points, name this oratorio by George Frideric Handel which includes the "Hallelujah Chorus."
This ruler fired his foreign minister, the Duke of Choiseul, for supporting Spain during the Falklands Crisis. This man supported his father-in-law Stanislaw I during the War of the Polish Succession. His forces temporarily captured the Austrian Netherlands after Maurice de Saxe won the Battle of Fontenoy, but he gave up these gains in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. This king aligned his country with Austria during the (*) Diplomatic Revolution, which occurred a mere decade after his country had allied with Prussia in the War of the Austrian Succession. Madame Pompadour was a long-time mistress of this king. For 10 points, name this French king who lost his North American territories after the French and Indian War, and was the grandson of the previous "Sun" king.ANSWER: Louis XV [prompt on Louis] <Wang>
One of this author's narrators stumbles upon a broken device labeled with "hot" and "cold" switches and surmises that it contained strong magic. That character from a short story by this author is told to avoid the "Dead Places" where ruined monuments to the god "ASHING" lie. Jack Ellyat and Clay Wingate join different armies in an (*) epic poem by this man that depicts its title character's trial in Charles Town. One of this author's title characters is told "some will call you Ichabod" in a story that includes Judge Hathorne among a set of jurors. In that story, Jabez Stone is successfully acquitted despite breaking his contract with Mr. Scratch. For 10 points, name this author of "By the Waters of Babylon", John Brown's Body, and "The Devil and Daniel Webster".ANSWER: Stephen Vincent Benet <Cheng>
In an experiment at this location, the first-ever SCRAM mechanism, a vat of cadmium solution, was introduced. The actual goal of that experiment at this location was to determine the reproduction factor in the four-factor formula. A giant square balloon surrounded the apparatus of that experiment at this location in order to remove all air. That experiment at this location was overseen by Arthur Compton, head of the Metallurgical Laboratory. That experiment at this location used 57 layers of a (*) graphite cubic lattice for deceleration and was conducted underneath a football field, on an abandoned squash court. For 10 points, name this university where a 1942 experiment led by Enrico Fermi produced the world's first self-sustained nuclear reaction.ANSWER: University of Chicago [prompt on UC; prompt on Illinois until "university" is read] <Silverman>
In the worst case, this function is the tight asymptotic lower bound of the median of medians algorithm to select the kth largest element. For a word size of k, the worst case performance of radix sort is big O of k times this function with respect to the elements being sorted. Searching an unbalanced binary search tree has a worst case runtime tightly bounded by this function. This function is the best case time complexity of (*) bubble sort. Algorithms that traverse from the first to last element in a singly linked list without a tail pointer and ones that iterate through a one-dimensional array in a for loop are bounded by this function. For 10 points, name this function that dominates algorithms that run in Big O of n time.ANSWER: linear function [or linear time; or Big O of n until it is read] <Bentley>
At the end of this novel, the protagonist thinks "Zero hour...time to go" after habitually checking his broken watch. A flashback describes how its protagonist's father pursues a relationship with the lab tech Ramona after the protagonist's mother Sharon abandoned him, taking his pet rakunk Killer. In a narrative thread of this novel, the protagonist travels from the "pleeblands" to the ruins of Paradice. A character in this novel who attends the Watson-Crick Institute and gets a job with (*) RejoovenEsense took his nickname from the game Extinctathon. This novel's sequel in the MaddAddam trilogy is The Year of the Flood. For 10 points, name this 2003 novel in which Snowman's flashbacks detail his pre-apocalypse life with the two title characters, by Margaret Atwood.ANSWER: Oryx and Crake <Carson>
Nusselt film theory describes this process. The working fluid undergoes this process after it is turbined, before it is pumped, in a Rankine cycle. An exit stream undergoes this process, and then a recycle, during reflux. This process shares its name with a method of polymerization contrasted with addition. Cold fingers are used to effect this process, which often occurs in glassware named for (*) Liebig. Silver iodide serves as a nucleus for this process to occur during cloud seeding. This process begins to happen as temperature dips below the dew point. This process occurs in the tube leading to the receiving flask in a distillation. This exothermic process is the inverse of vaporization. For 10 points, name this process in which a vapor is converted into a liquid.ANSWER: condensation [or condensation polymerization; prompt on cooling or subcooling or supercooling] <Silverman>
An unfinished piece by this composer contains a central "Purgatorio" movement surrounded by two scherzos. Another of his pieces ends with an alto or baritone repeating "Ewig… ewig" (ay-vig), or "Forever… forever." The opening adagio was the only movement of his tenth symphony that he fully orchestrated before his death. Leonard Bernstein was the first to record the complete set of this composer's symphonies and song cycles, one of which opens with "The (*) Drinking Song of Earth's Misery." This composer's eighth symphony sets the hymn "Veni Creator Spiritus" in the first part and the finale from Goethe's Faust in the second, and is nicknamed for the many musicians required. For 10 points, name this composer of Das Lied von der Erde and the "Symphony of a Thousand."ANSWER: Gustav Mahler <Rosenberg> - Page 2 of 13 5. This event largely did not affect institutions which belonged to the Suffolk system. A cartoon depicting "The Times" of this event shows a shining hat subtitled "GLORY" in the sky above a city street. During this event, thousands of New Yorkers attacked hoarding merchants in the Flour Riots. This event inspired the unsuccessful Divorce Bill and the narrowly-passed Independent Treasury Act. This event is often blamed on an order issued by Levi Woodbury which prevented (*) public lands from being bought with "wildcat currency." This event was partly caused by the Specie Circular and by the credit policies of "pet banks." For 10 points, name this economic crisis, a financial panic that began in the first year of Martin Van Buren's term.
A body movement called "arc de cercle" affected people diagnosed with this condition by Jean-Martin Charcot. The idea of pressing a doctor's thumb to the patient's forehead to relieve this condition was relayed in a text co-written by Josef Breuer. In the late 19th century, physicians like George Taylor induced what they called "paroxysm" to treat this condition, often using mechanical (*) vibrators. Bertha Pappenheim, known as "Anna O," was the main case study in Sigmund Freud's 1896 Studies on this disorder. The Greek-derived name for this condition reflects the ancient view that it stemmed from an internally-wandering uterus. For 10 points, name this now-discredited mental diagnosis usually given to women, whose purported "mass" form causes society-wide panic.ANSWER: hysteria [or conversion disorder] <Jackson>
This deity transforms Nyctimene, who had been raped by her father, into a symbolic animal. During the Gigantomachy, this deity hurls the island of Sicily at the fleeing Enceladus. This deity gives Heracles a Hephaestus-crafted rattle with which to frighten the Stymphalian Birds. This deity assists Telemachus in the disguise of Mentor. According to Ovid, this goddess angrily tears up the winning (*) tapestry of Arachne before turning her into a spider. She is born after her mother is turned into a fly and swallowed by Zeus, who suffers an enormous headache and calls for Hephaestus to cleave his skull, from which this goddess emerges fully armed. For 10 points, name this daughter of Metis and Zeus, the martial Olympian goddess of wisdom.ANSWER: Athena [or Minerva; or Athene; or Pallas Athena] <Gupta>
This author wrote a short story in which Mr. Swaffer gives a house to the title character and her husband Yanko Goorall, the latter of whom calls out for water in his native tongue and is abandoned before his death. In another of his stories, a captain decides to help the deserter Leggatt escape from the HMS Sephora. Another character created by this author describes his trip to a "whited sepulchre" to accept a job from the (*) Company to replace Fresleven. This author wrote a book about a journey made to the Central Station that is part of a framed narrative told onboard the Nellie. For 10 points, name this Polish-born British author of the short stories "Amy Foster" and "The Secret Sharer" who wrote about Marlow's search for Kurtz in Heart of Darkness.ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Josef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski] <Gehring>
In China, statues of this animal often appear as the pedestal of monuments like the Nestorian Stele. According to legend, a golden one of these animals took a sword called Heaven's Will back from Vietnamese freedom fighter Le Loi. Objects named for this animal were used in a "crane formation" to win the Battle of Hansan Island and the Battle of Sacheon during the Imjin War. Admiral Yi invented that type of (*) vessel named for this animal, which was used to thwart Toyotomi Hideyoshi's attempted invasion of the Joseon kingdom. Along with ox scapulae, a notable part of these animals were inscribed with questions then heated to make oracle bones. For 10 points, name these animals, which name a sort of Korean ship with a shelled exterior.ANSWER: turtles [or tortoises; or bixi] <Brownstein> - Page 3 of 13 10. A prominent visitor center in this region is named for Ernest Coe, whose advocacy for this region alienated pretty much everyone. The Bear Lake Mounds are in this ecological region, where humans built the Mud Lake Canal between 750 and 1200 AD. HM-69, a Nike Hercules Missile base, is located in this region. The Calusa people once inhabited this region which is cut through by the (*) Tamiami Trail. Marjory Stoneman Douglas advocated for saving this region, which is afflicted by invasive species such as the melaleuca tree and the Burmese python. It held an early ballistic anti-nuke system to defend against the Cuban nuclear threats. For ten points, name this so-called "River of Grass," a protected wetlands between Lake Okeechobee and Biscayne Bay in southern Florida.
The most common region used in animal DNA barcoding is a stretch of 600 base pairs encoding a subunit of one of these proteins. After being released into the cytoplasm, one of these proteins binds to Apaf-1, initiating the instrinsic apoptosis pathway. In phase I of drug metabolism, polar groups are introduced to chemicals by the P450 oxidase type of these proteins. One of these proteins in the thylakoid membrane transfers electrons between (*) photosystems II and I. One of these proteins gets reduced by the oxidation of coenzyme Q in Complex III, and four of them each transfer an electron to one oxygen molecule to make water in Complex IV. For 10 points, name these heme-containing proteins whose "c" variety plays a key role in the electron transport chain.ANSWER: cytochromes [accept cytochrome c oxidase; accept cytochrome b6f; accept cytochrome bc1] <Gupta>
In one work by this man, a judge named Bridoye reveals that he has always doled out sentences by rolling dice. This author was said to have employed the trope of the "grotesque body" to critique the wars of his time in a Mikhail Bakhtin study named after this man "and his world". Another of this man's characters determines whether or not he should get married by making a journey to (*) Bacbuc, where he is told to "drink!" One of this author's title characters builds a religious institution which has the motto "Do what thou wilt". This author satirized contemporary religion by creating the Oracle of the Holy Bottle and the Abbey of Theleme in a series of satirical novels named for two giants. For 10 points, name this French creator of Gargantua and Pantagruel.ANSWER: Francois Rabelais [or Alcofribas Nasier] <Jose>
The lands belonging to these people were partitioned during a period known as "The Ruin." These people formed a vassal state after rebelling against the rule of foreign magnates in the Khmelnytsky Uprising, which marked the beginning of The Deluge. The words "Volga, Volga" begin a popular folk song about a leader of these people named Stenka Razin. These people formed a (*) "hetmanate" called the Zaporizhian host. One of their leaders impersonated Peter III and led a 1773 rebellion against Catherine the Great. Yemelyan Pugachev was a member of these people, many of whom lived around the Don or Dnieper River. For 10 points, name these nomadic warrior people who alternately rebelled against or fought for Russia.ANSWER: Cossacks <Wang>
In statistical mechanics, the expected number of these particles in a given state is inversely proportional to an exponential weight minus one. Composite particles that belong to this general class are the basis for the BCS theory of superconductivity. These particles leave the sign of the wavefunction unchanged upon particle exchange and include (*) Cooper pairs. They do not obey the Pauli exclusion principle because they obey a set of statistics named for their namesake and Einstein. Photons are an example of the "gauge" type of these particles that have integer spin. For 10 points, name this particle whose Higgs type was discovered at the Large Hadron Collider.ANSWER: bosons <Eltinge> - Page 4 of 13 15. The Getty Museum contains a portrait study by this artist of a model from Santo Domingo named Joseph with upturned eyes. During a trip to Rome, he painted a nude man holding back a terrified horse before it takes off down the Corso. The psychiatrist Étienne-Jean Georget commissioned him to make Portrait of a Kleptomaniac, for which this artist visited an (*) insane asylum. In another painting, a military officer is seated almost completely turned around on his rearing horse, and brandishes a curved sword. This artist of Race of the Riderless Horses and The Charging Chasseur also painted a black man standing atop a human pyramid and waving a rag to attract a distant ship. For 10 points, name this French painter of The Raft of the Medusa.
Frank Ramsey translated this book into English at Cambridge while its author was allegedly twisting kids' ears as a provincial schoolteacher. According to this book, facts can be combined into a "picture" which has a "representing relation" to reality, though the limits of one's language are the limits of one's world. This book's author later rejected that theory in favor of a "family resemblances" theory of meaning. This book, which inspired the pro-science (*) Vienna Circle, has a title paralleling a book on religion by Baruch Spinoza. It starts by asserting "The world is everything that is the case" and ends "What we cannot speak of, we must pass over in silence." For 10 points, name this attempt to solve all of philosophy, a short early work by Ludwig Wittgenstein.ANSWER: Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus [prompt on Ludwig Wittgenstein's Tractatus] <Jackson>
The Cave of Ramban in this place is considered the final resting place of Nachmanides. In the birkat hamazon, a set of blessings said after consuming bread, the third blessing concerns this place. The Talmudic legend about Akiva being a "lyre for all your songs" inspired a popular song about this place "of Gold." Many Passover services end with the participants singing the song (*) "Next Year in" this place. A pair of historical tragedies in this city is remembered on the Ninth of Av. Its "Old City" includes a popular site of lamentation, the Western Wall, as well as the Temple Mount, the place where the Tabernacle was kept within the Holy of Holies. For 10 points, name this city where many Jews believe a Third Temple will be built in end times.ANSWER: Jerusalem [or Yerushalayim; or Old City until mentioned; accept Upper Kidron Valley until "this city" is read; accept Wadi al-Joz until "this city" is read] <Gupta>
In this novel, a character promotes healthy living with initiatives like Banish the Booze Week and Better Babies Week. Joyce Lanyon enters a loveless marriage with this novel's main character before he moves to Vermont at this book's end. A woman in this novel dies after smoking a half-finished cigarette while on St. Hubert. This novel's title character hosts a lunch to which he invites his two fiancees, of whom he eventually chooses a native of Wheatsylvania, North Dakota named (*) Leora Tozer. The protagonist of this book grows up in Elk Mills in the state of Winnemac, and discovers the X Principle while working with fellow scientists Terry Wickett and Max Gottlieb. For 10 points, name this novel by Sinclair Lewis, whose title character is a doctor named Martin.ANSWER: Arrowsmith <Sy>
One player of this instrument collaborated on the album At Basin Street with Clifford Brown. Another player of this instrument played on a duet with Sonny Rollins on the song The Surrey with the Fringe on Top. Two players of this instrument collaborated on an album that contains tracks of each of their "blues". In 1952, those two players "battled" at a Carnegie Hall concert. Another player of this instrument recorded the album (*) Moanin along with his Jazz Messengers. Played by Max Roach and Art Blakey, this instrument joins the piano and a bass in the normal lineup of a jazz trio. Players of this instrument frequently use the hi-hat and sometimes use brushes. For ten points, name this instrument played by Gene Krupa and Buddy Rich, a percussion instrument.ANSWER: drums [ or drum kit; prompt on percussion] <Puma> - Page 5 of 13 20. The Haldane Mission attempted to curb the spending on these objects. Horace de Vere Cole pretended to be part of a delegation from Abyssinia so that he and his friends, including Virginia Woolf, could visit one of these objects. This was the less common of the two objects that the country meeting the "two-power standard" built more of. Alfred von Tirpitz urged the construction of both the normal and (*) pocket type of these objects. A 5:5:3 ratio of these objects was fixed at the 1921-22 Washington Arms Conference. A generation of these objects known as "dreadnoughts" were revolutionary for their steam turbines and all-big-gun armaments. For 10 points, name these vehicles that the Germans and British competed to build in an early 20th century naval arms race.
The protagonist of a novel by this author receives a letter containing a $5000 bill, which he refers to as a "portrait of Madison". An affair with Linda Loring and threats from Mendy Menendez complicate the plot of a novel by this author in which the protagonist attempts to keep Roger Wade sober and eventually learns that Paul Marston and Terry Lennox are the same person. The blackmail efforts of Arthur Geiger prompt General Sternwood to hire the protagonist, who learns that Eddie (*) Mars helped Vivian Sternwood conceal her sister Carmen's murder of Rusty Regan, in a novel by this author titled for a euphemism for death. For 10 points, name this author of hardboiled novels like The Long Goodbye and The Big Sleep, which both star his detective Philip Marlowe.ANSWER: Raymond Chandler [or Raymond Thornton Chandler] <Carson>
Edmund Morris wrote a semi-fictional biography of this man titled Dutch. This man signed the US's first no-fault divorce law into law. This man asked "Will [future generations] look back with appreciated and say, 'Thank God for those people … who headed off that loss of freedom?’” in his “A Time for Choosing" speech. During a debate against an incumbent president, this man asked the audience, "Are you better off than you were four years ago?" As president, this man defeated an (*) air traffic controller strike, launched Operation Urgent Fury against Grenada, and survived an assassination attempt from John Hinckley. For 10 points, name this president who defeated Jimmy Carter to become president in the election of 1980.ANSWER: Ronald Wilson Reagan <Bentley>
Madin-Darby canine cells from this organ are commonly used for vaccine manufacture. Drugs like ethacrynic acid and furosemide act on this organ to treat edema and hypertension. Foot processes link podocytes to this organ's basement membrane. Intercalated cells in this organ strongly express sodiumproton antiporters. Calcium oxalate is the major component of a namesake (*) mineral concretion that forms in this organ. ADH stimulates this organ's collecting ducts to express aquaporins for osmoregulation. Countercurrent exchange in this organ through two tubules, an ascending limb, and the descending limb of the loop of Henle moderates glucose, sodium, and water concentration. For 10 points, name this organ whose nephrons filter blood.ANSWER: kidneys [or glomerulus] <Silverman>
People with family connections could avoid participating in this system via the "protection privilege." This system was one of the chief influences on the Northcote-Trevelyan report. This system was modernized during the Hundred Days Reform, which included the abolishment of this system's focus on the notoriously rigid "eight-legged" form. After his lack of (*) success in this system, Hong Xiuquan declared himself the younger brother of Jesus and started the Taiping rebellion. This system culminated in a 72-hour process held in a tiny cell. Successful participants in this system could achieve the jenshi status and had to memorize many of the Four Books and Five Classics, a set of Confucian works. For 10 points, name this system by which the bureaucracy of Imperial China was selected.ANSWER: Chinese imperial examination [or Chinese civil service examination; or keju; prompt on partial answers like Chinese civil service or Chinese bureaucracy or Chinese government] <Brownstein>
The speaker of a section of T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land recounts going out to do this activity with her cousin, who assuages her fear by saying, "Marie, Marie, hold on tight." The groomsmen Peter and Pavel are the only survivors of a wolf attack that occurs while performing this activity after a wedding in a story Antonia Shimerda relates to Jim Burden. In another novel, the title character and his crush take part in this activity after reminiscing near (*) Shadow Pond and replicating a kiss they saw between Ned Hale and Ruth Varnum. Those characters then attempt to commit suicide by crashing into an elm during this activity. For 10 points, name this winter activity that leaves Mattie a paralyzed invalid under the care of Zeena and Ethan Frome.ANSWER: sledding [or sleighing; accept word forms or answers involving riding or using a sled or a sleigh] <Smart>
This artist painted two masons carrying their hurt coworker away from an accident site in a tapestry cartoon requested by the German artist Anton Mengs. A young girl distances herself from a silhouetted goat presiding over a coven of witches in another painting by this artist. This artist depicted a woman, possibly the Duchess of Alba, in states of dress and (*) undress in his companion paintings The Clothed Maja and The Nude Maja. This artist made extensive use of aquatint in his 82-image series The Disasters of War. A man in a white shirt adopts the pose of Christ as he faces a firing squad in this artist's painting commemorating resistance to Napoleon's invasion. For 10 points, name this Spanish painter of The Third of May, 1808.ANSWER: Francisco Goya [or Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes] <Gupta>
Galactitol accumulates in this structure in galactokinase deficiency. In diseases such as homocystinuria and Marfan syndrome, this structure experiences subluxation. Type IV collagen is abundant in this structure's namesake capsule. 90% of the proteins in this structure are alpha, beta, and gamma-crystallins. The Zonules of Zinn connect it to the ciliary body. These structures are absent in aphakia, and are thought to lose their elasticity in presbyopia. A large patch of (*) gel located behind this structure is called the vitreous humor. These anatomical structures contribute the second most diopters, and they become clouded in cataracts. For 10 points, name these biconcave structures in the eye that work with the cornea to refract light.ANSWER: lenses <Gupta> - Page 2 of 13 5. A sinner in hell begs a man with this name to warn his five brothers to repent but is told they already have Moses and the Prophets. In Eastern Orthodoxy, the day before Palm Sunday is named for a man with this name. Another man with this name is told to dip his finger in the waters of heaven to cool the tongue of a rich man in hell. A story about a man with this name prompts the shortest verse in the Bible, which reads "Jesus (*) wept." Jesus receives an invitation to visit a man with this name but waits two days before going to see that man's sisters Mary and Martha. Despite smelling after sitting for four days, that man with this name rises when Jesus orders him out of his tomb. For 10 points, give this name of a man who is resurrected by Jesus.
Precues can be used to study this process in the Posner test. The stimuli "money" and "river" changesdd the interpretation of "bank" in a study by MacKay that challenged the "leaky filter" models of this process that are modulated by Treisman's attenuator. Daniel Kahneman proposed a model of this process that focuses on the mental effort it takes to process stimuli. An earlier model of this ability formulated by Broadbent posits a bottleneck filter and cannot account for the (*) cocktail party effect that allows multiple conversations to be processed at once. The load theory describes this skill as a limited resource that must be divided when multitasking. For 10 points, name this cognitive ability to focus on tasks impaired in a namesake deficit disorder.ANSWER: attention <Zhang>
This book's digressions include a comparison of Bordeaux and Champagne wine and an ode to the beauty of women's feet, and it includes a love letter beginning "I write to you! When that is said, What more is left for me to say?" A character in this novel is compared to Childe Harold for bathing in an icy river each morning after inheriting a house from his uncle. Its protagonist angers Zaretsky by choosing his servant Guillot as his (*) second. This novel written in namesake sonnet stanzas which feature alternating masculine and feminine rhymes. After dancing with Olga at a party, this poem's title character kills his friend Lensky in a duel. For 10 points, name this verse novel whose title character is rejected by Tatyana, the masterpiece of Alexander Pushkin.ANSWER: Eugene Onegin [or Yevgeny Onegin] <Brownstein>
One head of this organization, Bernadine Healy, was forced to resign after news broke that its Liberty Fund was being misappropriated. ProPublica exposed how this organization drove nearly-empty trucks to provide background images for press conferences given by its CEO, Gail McGovern. In 2008, a judge ruled in favor of this organization in a trademark dispute over its emblem with (*) Johnson & Johnson. A manual for this organization concerning AIDS and homosexuals was re-written under Elizabeth Dole. This affiliate of an international movement headquartered in Geneva was founded by a woman nicknamed "the angel of the battlefield," Clara Barton. For 10 points, name this charity which provides the largest supply of blood to hospitals in the United States.ANSWER: American National Red Cross [prompt on Red Cross] <Bentley>
Wilhelm Tranow performed this task for B-Dienst. A group of female performers of this task were nicknamed "Dilly's girls," after the classics scholar and papyrologist Alfred Dillwyn Knox. Performers of this task bestowed the nickname "Tunny" upon the Lorenz SZ40. Marian Rejewski (mah-REE-ahn RAYyev-ski), a Polish performer of this task, invented a device called the bomba. Several people were trained to perform this task on the (*) "Ultra" designation at Bletchley Park. The codename Magic was given to this task in the Pacific Theater, whereas in the European theater, performing this task often involved reverse-engineering Enigma machines. For 10 points, name this military intelligence task in which one accesses protected enemy communications.ANSWER: codebreaking [or cryptanalysis; or cryptography; accept answers that convey deciphering a code; prompt on military intelligence; prompt on espionage; prompt on spying] <Gupta> - Page 3 of 13 10. Oxides of this element are found in great leaving groups, like triflates and mesylates. An oxide of this element easily penetrates through nitrile gloves and leaves unsuspecting chemists with the taste of garlic. Iodine oxidizes this element from its +2 state in a common redox titration. Beta-mercaptoethanol reduces this element, unfolding proteins. Purple bacteria oxidize this element, not carbon. Oxides of (*) nitrogen and this element are subscripted with an X. Oxidation of this element crosslinks keratin fibers. This element's dioxide is oxidized by vanadium into oleum in the contact process. It gets oxidized during vulcanization of rubber. For 10 points, name this nonmetal in the same family as oxygen, which normally exists as a yellow solid or a smelly gas.
Two characters reminisce about "the two by four where [they] kept house" in this musical work's "Tango-Ballad." In another scene, two men who had fought together in India sing about chopping up the the native population and eating them raw. A song imagining a "Black Freighter" massacring some rude hotel guests is sung at the main character's wedding. "Cannon Song" and (*) "Pirate Jenny" appear in this work, along with a murder ballad comparing the protagonist's jackknife to shark's teeth that was covered by Bobby Darin. Polly Peachum appears in this musical, which is a loose adaptation of an earlier John Gay work narrated by the Beggar. For 10 points, name this musical which contains "Mack the Knife," the first collaboration between Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht.ANSWER: The Threepenny Opera [or Die Dreigoschenoper] <Weiser>
In Martin Heidegger's philosophy, this phenomenon is the "ownmost possibility" of Dasein, which can be authentic or inauthentic in "being-towards" this thing. Arthur Schopenhauer claimed that this thing is the "true inspiring genius, or the muse of philosophy". Xanthippe cries in anticipation of an event of this type in the dialogue Phaedo. A Michel de Montaigne essay claims that to study of philosophy is to learn how to undergo this process. Epicurus's atomism led him to argue that people need not (*) fear this event happening to them as it is "nothing to us". Chapter 1 of a Kierkegaard book claims that despair is The Sickness Unto this phenomenon. For 10 points, name this inevitable event for every living thing, which occurred for Socrates after he drank hemlock.ANSWER: death [or dying; accept more specific answers such as execution or suicide until "learn"] <Jackson>
This poet wrote that "Love is a ripe plum growing on a purple tree" in his "Love Song for Lucinda". Another of his poems is about a student who admits "I guess you learn from me--although you're older" to a man who commands "let that page come out of you--then, it will be true". The speaker of a poem by this man asks "The free? Who said the free? Not me?" in a poem beginning "Let (*) America be America again". In a poem by this man, the speaker claims to have seen bodies of water as "ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood", including the "Mississippi, when Abe Lincoln went down to New Orleans". For 10 points, name this poet of "Theme for English B" and "The Negro Speaks of Rivers", a major figure in the Harlem Renaissance.ANSWER: Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes] <Sy>
These instruments play the first two statements of the opening canon theme in Henryk Gorecki's Symphony of Sorrowful Songs. At the beginning of the third movement of Mahler's first symphony, a muted one of these instruments plays a minor-key version of "Frere Jacques" above the timpani. A "Cextension" is often added to this instruments to extend their range downward. Schubert's Trout Quintet (*) replaces the second violin with one of these. Unlike the rest of the strings, this instrument does not use fine tuners and its strings are tuned in fourths. Prior to the 19th century, it usually doubled the cellos an octave lower in orchestral music. For 10 points, name this lowest-pitched member of the string section.ANSWER: double bass [or string bass or contrabass] <Rosenberg> - Page 4 of 13 15. This man's smoldering corpse gives off a noxious odor as the Argonauts sail up the river in which he landed. This man is a friend of a king of Liguria named Cycnus, who turns into a swan after this man's death. After his death, this man's body falls into the Eridanos river, next to which his two grieving sisters turn into poplar trees, while their tears turn into amber. After an insult from one of his (*) playmates, this son of Clymene sets out to prove his parentage. His actions explain why the Ethiopians have black skin. This man is killed by a thunderbolt from Zeus after his actions form deserts and scorch the earth. For 10 points, name this son of Helios who disastrously tries to drive the sun chariot.
This country was depicted in one American political cartoon as a five-headed man pointing a dagger towards the ground at a group of Americans. A force of sailors referred to as the sitting president's "Jackasses" prepared for a war with this country. The USS Constellation captured this nation's The Insurgent. A boat originally called the Little Sarah was renamed by an out-of-control diplomat from this country in (*) Charleston Harbor. The toast "Millions of dollars for defense, but not one cent for tribute" was allegedly given to mock this country after a scandal in which John Marshall, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, and Elbridge Gerry were told to pay a bribe for diplomatic access. For 10 points, name this home country of Citizen Genet, which fought the Quasi-War against John Adams' America after the XYZ affair.ANSWER: France [or First French Republic] <Puma>
The Doppler shift is used to detangle spectral lines for the spectroscopic variety of these systems. The first indirect evidence of gravity waves came from observations of this type of system. That example of this type of system was the first discovered to contain a pulsar and was discovered by (*) Hulse and Taylor. Algol, a system of this type, is the name of a paradox in stellar evolution in which mass transfer can alter a star's evolutionary track. Every instance of a type Ia supernova has originated from this type of system. For 10 points, name this type of astronomical system, such as Sirius, in which two stars orbit each other.ANSWER: binary star system [or binary pulsar; prompt on pulsar before it is mentioned] <Lasker>
A character in this novel uses a golden chain given to her by one man to wear the amber cross given to her by another. The betrayal represented by her sister's sudden elopement causes a woman in this novel to run off with Yates, her libertine brother's best friend. Two characters in this novel flirt during a racy amateur production of Elizabeth Inchbald's play (*) Lovers' Vows. A climactic event in this novel is a character's return from a year spent tending to his plantation in Antigua. The penurious Mrs. Norris is the antagonist of this novel, which begins with the daughter of a disabled, alcoholic naval lieutenant being sent to live with the Bertram family in the title estate. For 10 points, name this novel about Fanny Price, the third by Jane Austen.ANSWER: Mansfield Park <Gupta>
Davydov splitting is caused by excitations of these systems within individual unit cells. The energy of two of these systems is proportional to 1 minus 3 times cosine squared of the angle between them, giving a critical value at 54.74 degrees. In linear optics, one of these things is created by an external field, with a magnitude proportional to the polarizability. The potential from this arrangement drops off with the (*) third power of distance. The potential energy of these objects is given by the dot product of the external electric field with their namesake moment, which is the product of charge and distance, and is symbolized mu. For 10 points, name these systems of a positive charge separated from a negative charge.ANSWER: electric dipoles [or electric dipole moment] <Silverman> - Page 5 of 13 20. The Swiss-Italian architect Pietro Antonio Solari built several fortified towers in this city, which often vied for power with its northern rival Tver. A ruler of this city prevailed in the Great Stand on the Ugra River. A prince from this city was nicknamed for winning a battle on the Don river. Partly because a ruler of this city married Sophia Palaiologina, the niece of the last Byzantine Emperor, this city styled itself the (*) "Third Rome" after the fall of Constantinople. Another prince of this city stopped paying tribute to the Mongols in 1476, ending the "Tatar yoke." The Grand Duchy headquartered in this city came to an end in 1547 with the ascension of Ivan IV, who made it his capital. For 10 points, name this city where Ivan III renovated the Kremlin.
The amount of anesthetic required to prevent 50% of patients from moving in response to surgical stimuli is called the "minimum concentration" of these structures. The imbalance between alpha-1antitrypsin and elastase in the walls of these structures can lead to a common disease. The type II "great" cells in these structures secrete lecithins such as DPPC, the primary constituent of (*) surfactant. As their radius decreases, these structures are more likely to collapse. Emphysema destroys the walls of these structures, which are shaped like hollow cavities, and interface with blood vessels that release carbon dioxide and load up on oxygen. For 10 points, name these thin-walled air sacs that are found all throughout the mammalian lung.ANSWER: alveoli [accept word forms, such as alveolus and alveolar; prompt on lungs] <Gupta>
This king was overthrown in an event that confirmed the "right to work" by establishing a series of "National Workshops." During this king's reign, silk workers revolted against factory owners during the two Canut Revolts. His head was often depicted as a pear in contemporary political cartoons, which criticized the conservative policies promoted by his minister Francois (*) Guizot. This French king came to power in the "Three Glorious Days", which occurred shortly after France had invaded Algeria under the direction of Charles X. He himself was overthrown about a year before Napoleon III was elected president. For 10 points, name this king of France, who ruled from 1830 to 1848, and earned a nickname reflecting the populist support he enjoyed.ANSWER: Louis Philippe I [or Citizen King; do not accept or prompt on "Louis"] <Wang>
This author wrote about identifying with his young son upon returning to a camp in Maine in his Harper's essay "Once More to the Lake". The protagonist of a novel by this man rescues the drowning Applegate Skinner and learns to play taps and reveille ("rev-ah-lee") while working at Camp Kookooskoos. Sam Beaver befriends the mute Louis, whose father gives him the title (*) instrument, in a novel by this man, who also wrote an addendum to a book by another author featuring advice like "Write with nouns and verbs." The title character of one of his novels weaves the words "Some Pig" to keep Wilbur from being slaughtered. For 10 points, name this New Yorker writer who revised Strunk's The Elements of Style and wrote The Trumpet of the Swan and Charlotte's Web.ANSWER: E.B. White [or Elwyn Brooks White] <Kothari>
In the form of an eagle, this hero calls upon the god of rain for a torrent of water to escape from an angry fire goddess, from whom this hero earlier receives ten fingernails and toenails filled with fire. This hero uses a stone axe to kill Long Eel, or Tuna, for spitting slime at his wife. This hero meets his end when some nearby birds break out in laughter, causing the queen of the underworld to wake up while this hero is trying to crawl into her body and gain (*) immortality. This husband of Hina uses his grandmother's jawbone and a lasso made of his sister's hair to beat the sun into submission and lengthen the day. In another story, he uses a magic hook to fish out some islands in the Pacific Ocean. For 10 points, name this Polynesian folk hero.ANSWER: Maui [accept longer answers that include the name Maui] <Kim>
A city in this state was the site of the 1909 Greek Town Riot. It's not Tennessee, but it secured large government-owned hydroelectric power plants thanks to its senator George W. Norris. A politician from this state resigned a Secretary of State to protest America's entry into World War I. Ignatius Donnelly wrote a political platform named after the largest city in this state for the (*) Populist Party. Settlers in this state argued over whether its capital should be north or south of the Platte. A famous politician from this state was the prosecutor in the Scopes "monkey" trial and gave the Cross of Gold speech. For 10 points, name this home state of William Jennings Bryan, whose most populous city inspired the codename of Omaha Beach.ANSWER: Nebraska <Bentley>
Residents of this place remember the order of streets with the mnemonic "Jesus Christ Made [this city] Under Protest". Kris Kime was murdered during this city's 2001 Mardi Gras Riots in Pioneer Square. The multi-site Mars Hill megachurch in this city disbanded after controversies involving its pastor Mark Driscoll. This city's alternative newspaper The Stranger was the first to run an advice column by (*) Dan Savage. Near Elliott Bay, one can find this city's Pike Place Market. A famous landmark of this city houses SkyCity, a rotating restaurant 500 feet above ground. Frank Gehry designed this King County city's Experience Music Project, which houses musical paraphernalia from Jimi Hendrix and Nirvana. For 10 points, name this West Coast city home to the Space Needle.ANSWER: Seattle, Washington <Smart>
G. Evelyn Hutchinson formally defined these entities as n-dimensional hypervolumes. These entities are often plotted on bell-shaped utilization curves along a resource spectrum above variables like prey size. Joseph Connell's studies of barnacles on rocks documented the concept of the "realized width" of these entities. Natural selection assigns these entities to competing species in a process alternatively called (*) "partitioning" or "differentiation." An example of animals "constructing" this kind of entity by altering the environment is beavers buildings dams. When different species eat the same prey, these entities overlap. For 10 points, name this ecological concept that describes the roles that organisms play in their habitats.ANSWER: ecological niches <Gupta> - Page 2 of 13 5. Jan Tinbergen developed a model for this phenomenon which uses an equation similar to the law of universal gravitation to predict its amount. Another model of this phenomenon assumes that labor is the only variable factor. Paul Samuelson outlined a modification to a model of this phenomenon that uses a 2x2x2 (2 by 2 by 2) model that allows for variances in both capital and labor. Paul Krugman was awarded the Nobel Prize for his work in this area, which is described by the (*) Heckscher-Ohlin Model. The most basic model that claims every country should produce what it is best at was developed by David Ricardo and is called comparative advantage. For 10 points, name this phenomenon, which can be controlled by the application of tariffs, where two countries exchange goods and services.
Due to material defects, this phenomenon gives the overall lower bound on losses in propagation in optical fibers. The original derivation of this effect failed to predict the Arago point and two other neutral points of zero polarization. The intensity of this phenomenon is proportional to wavenumber to the fourth power and varies inversely with the (*) sixth power of radius. Its cross-section is proportional to the sinesquared of the angle, which creates a polarization pattern that varies with azimuth. This effect, which occurs only if the wavelength is much larger than the particle diameter, does not impact the energy of the incident photon, unlike Raman scattering. For 10 points, name this form of elastic scattering which explains why the sky is blue.ANSWER: Rayleigh scattering [prompt on Mie scattering] <Silverman>
This author described an affable soldier with "very flat and very fat" feet marching through Normandy in "Walter Schnaffs' Adventure." A woman created by this author is noted for her "embonpoint" and has fingers "choked at the phalanges." A weak-willed man in a story by this man sleeps in a coat room while his wife dances at the Ministry of Education's ball. Morissot and Sauvage refuse to reveal a password and are shot by the (*) Prussians in his story "Deux Amis". The title prostitute of one of his stories, Elisabeth Rousset, helps her company by sleeping with a Prussian officer. In another of his stories, Madame Loisel borrows a piece of jewelry that turns out to be fake in another of his stories. For 10 points, name this author of "Ball of Fat" and "The Necklace."ANSWER: Guy de Maupassant [or Henri Rene Albert Guy de Maupassant] <Sy>
This operatic character is teased in a cavatina during which another character jokes that he'll play his guitar if this character wants to dance. He plays piano 'accompaniment' during the duet "Contro un cor accende amore," while passing himself off as a substitute music tutor. Played by a tenor, this character sings "Ecco, ridente in cielo" while disguised as the student (*) Lindoro at the beginning of one opera. In another opera, played by a baritone or bass, this character plans to revive the droit du seigneur to sleep with his valet's wife Susanna, but is exposed by his own wife Rosina. For 10 points, name this character from Rossini's The Barber of Seville, a nobleman who also appears as Figaro's antagonistic boss in Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro.ANSWER: Count Almaviva [or Il Conte di Almaviva or just "The Count"] <Rosenberg>
Members of this profession were often buried in hollowed-out trees rather than the ground. A device called the ngoni was first used by these people. While kidnapped, a man in this profession found that a rival king was invulnerable unless shot with an arrow tipped by a white rooster's nail. These people were seen in green feathered costumes by traveler (*) ibn Battuta. One of these people named Balla Fasseke was at Kirina as his king defeated the Soso kingdom of Sumanguru. The Mandinka term for these people is used less often than a French term of unknown origin which may mean "servant" or "one who shouts." For 10 points, name these people who preserved the Epic of Sundiata into the present day, the traditional oral historians and ritual musicians of West Africa.ANSWER: griots [or jeli; or jali; or gewel; prompt on poets; prompt on musicians; prompt on praise-singers; prompt on advisors] <Jackson> - Page 3 of 13 10. When Willard Phillips first read this poem out loud, Richard Henry Dana responded that "no one on this side of the Atlantic is capable of writing such verses". This poem describes how "the rude swain turns with his share and treads upon" the "sluggish clod". "Patriarchs of the infant world" "and hoary seers of ages past" will be joined by the addressee of this poem, who is told to "lose thyself in the continuous woods where rolls the (*) Oregon" and to "pierce the Barcan wilderness". This poem advises its addressee to "go not like the quarry slave at night" when joining "the innumerable caravan", but to go "like one who . . . lies down to pleasant dreams." For 10 points, name this meditation on death written by William Cullen Bryant.
An artist from this country painted politicians of his time in spiritual form, leading the biblical beasts Behemoth and Leviathan into war. That artist also depicted a crouching, bearded figure holding out a gigantic compass from his sun-like perch in the sky in a watercolor. The first president of this nation's art academy advocated the Grand Style in his lectures and depicted an (*) actress seated between a figure holding a sword and another holding a cup. The Ancient of Days and Sarah Siddons as the Tragic Muse are paintings from this country. A monarch of this country stands beside his horse while "at the hunt" in a portrait by Anthony van Dyck. For 10 points, name this country home to William Blake and Joshua Reynolds.ANSWER: United Kingdom [or Great Britain; or England] <Bentley>
A common cause of male infertility is the enlargement of a network of these structures, resulting in a "bag of worms" appearance. The longest of these structures, the great saphenous one, has an especially thick tunica adventitia. Surgical immobilization and long periods of sitting may predispose a patient to a problem in "deep" types of this structure. Enlarged and twisted examples of these structures are termed (*) "varicose." The largest of these valved, vascular structures is the inferior vena cava, and the pulmonary one is one of the very few that are rich in oxygen. For 10 points, name these vessels that primarily carry deoxygenated blood to the heart, as opposed to arteries.ANSWER: veins [prompt on blood vessels] <Smart>
A character who physically resembles, and is named for, a type of these creatures is pursued by the thieves Souris and Tigre and eventually kills an apparition at the urging of Corporal Lestrade. The fact that anything he puts in the water floats allows one of these creatures named Nala to construct a bridge. Another of these creatures is sent to retrieve an herb but comes back carrying an entire (*) mountain. A Derek Walcott play is titled for a "dream" on the "mountain" of these creatures, examples of which in another literary work include the commander Nila, the usurper Vali, and the king Sugriva, all of whom assist Rama. For 10 points, name these creatures, the most famous example of which in the Ramayana is Hanuman.ANSWER: monkeys [or monos; or vanaras; accept Makak or macaque; accept Dream on Monkey Mountain] <Carson>
Fourteen letters which appear twenty-nine times in seemingly meaningless arrangements in this text are called the "initials" or "isolated letters." Its repeated challenge to readers to produce merely ten chapters of a text like it is taken to be evidence for this book's inimitability. This text, which declares that there is "no compulsion in religion," can be read in a month by dividing it into thirty equally-apportioned (*) juz. An expunged, supposedly anti-monotheistic portion of this book that references three pagan goddess is known as the Satanic Verses. Over a period of twenty-three years in a mountain cave, this text was revealed through the angel Gabriel. For 10 points, name this holy book divided into chapters called surahs, the key religious text of Islam.ANSWER: the Qur'an [or Koran] <Gupta> - Page 4 of 13 15. During this campaign, several soldiers committed suicide out of hunger, despite having plenty of watermelons and grain cakes to eat. At a battle in this campaign, a commander told his men that "forty centuries look down upon you." Felicia Hemans's poem "Casabianca" dramatizes the explosion of the Orient during a battle in this campaign, which departed from Toulon after being reluctantly approved by the (*) Directory. Malta was captured on the way to its primary objective. Lord Nelson ambushed an anchored navy during this campaign at the Battle of Aboukir Bay. During this campaign, the soldier Pierre-Francois Bouchard discovered the Rosetta stone. For 10 points, name this 1798-1801 expedition, during which Napoleon's army lost the Battle of the Nile.
This process can be performed everywhere on entire functions. The arc length of a function f from a to b is the integral of square root quantity one plus this operation of f squared. When this operation can be repeated infinitely, the input function is called smooth. The Jacobian is the determinant of a matrix whose entries come from performing this operation. It cannot be performed at the origin for the (*) absolute value function and cannot be performed anywhere on the Weierstrass function. This operation applied to a composition of two functions is this operation applied to the first times this operation applied to the second according to the chain rule. For 10 points, name this operation which finds the slope of the line tangent to a curve.ANSWER: differentiation [or taking a derivative, accept any more descriptive answers like complex/partial differentiation] <Bailey>
An old man in this novel says that the hardest things in life to deal with are "muddles." This novel's protagonist earns the ire of the Alan sisters after failing to get them Cissie House, a summer home near Windy Corner. In this novel, the pseudonym "Joseph Emery Prank" is used by Eleanor Lavish, who takes away the protagonist's Baedeker before she enters the Santa Croce. This novel's protagonist breaks off an engagement to the snobbish (*) Cecil Vyse. At the beginning of this novel, the protagonist arrives in the Pension Bertolini in Florence with her cousin Charlotte Bartlett, and meets George Emerson while complaining about not being given the title accommodation. For 10 points, name this novel about Lucy Honeychurch by E.M. Forster.ANSWER: A Room with a View <Sy>
The fourth movement of this piece begins with low strings playing two bars of pianissimo tremolos on D, after which second violins introduce a B-flat minor staccato melody depicting raindrops. The second movement of this piece is an Andante molto moto written in 12/8 time using the subdominant key of Bflat major. This piece's last two movements, played without a pause, are a (*) "Storm" and a "Shepherd's Song." Woodwind instruments imitate birdcall near the end of its second-movement "Scene by the brook." This F major symphony begins with an "Awakening of cheerful feelings upon arrival in the countryside." For 10 points,19. A winning commander in this war was boarded up to the point of near starvation in a temple to a deity of the Brazen House after being accused of collaborating with the losing side. The losing side of this war had planned to dig a canal across the isthmus of Mount Athos. A king in this war ordered the construction of two pontoon bridges to cross a body of water that he had (*) lashed for being uncooperative. Its first phase ended with the defeat of Datis and Artaphernes by Miltiades, and began soon after the Ionian Revolt was quashed. The winning side of this war formed the Delian League after winning the Battle of Plataea. For 10 points, name this series of wars in which the losing king Xerxes beat 300 Spartans at the Battle of Thermopylae.ANSWER: Greco-Persian Wars <Gupta> - Page 5 of 13 20. This theory inspired Rudolf Steiner's method of classifying children in the Waldorf educational system. A 1946 George Balanchine ballet with music by Paul Hindemith was inspired by this theory. Dyscrasia should be avoided according to this theory, whose basic concepts inform Robert Burton's encyclopedic treatise Anatomy of Melancholy. This theory inspired a play in which the servant Brainworm defies the orders of Old Kno'well, an early comedy by Ben (*) Jonson. A believer in this theory might assume that an excessively cheery, or "sanguine," temperament results from vapors in the brain. For 10 points, name this nowdiscredited theory which attributed personality traits to a bodily imbalance between blood, phlegm, yellow bile, and black bile.
Venetians under Enrico Contarini stole the body of Saint Nicholas late in this campaign. Despite sending reports about this campaign back to his wife Adela, Stephen, the Count of Blois deserted it. Count Emicho carried out a series of massacres of Jews in the Rhineland during this campaign. The Battle of Ascalon was the last engagement of this campaign, which was chronicled by (*) Anna Comnena in the Alexiad. Raymond IV of Toulouse and Godfrey of Bouillon led this campaign, which was preceded by an ill-fated adventure led by Peter the Hermit, and led to the creation of states headquartered at Edessa and Antioch. At the Council of Clermont, Pope Urban II called for this campaign. For 10 points, name this 1096-99 military campaign which managed to capture Jerusalem.ANSWER: First Crusade [prompt on German Crusade; prompt on People's Crusade] <Bentley>
Programs written in Dart can be compiled to this other language. Cross-platform widgets are offered by the Dojo Toolkit, which is a library for this language. Google's V8 engine interprets this language. A framework for sending and receiving human-readable data was originally developed for this language and is called JSON (jay-sawn). Server-side applications written in this language can use the (*) Node framework. This dynamically typed language can be used to display an alert after attaching to the onClick event in an HTML link. For 10 points, name this scripting language often used in web browsers, not to be confused with a similarly named language developed by Sun Microsystems.ANSWER: JavaScript [or JS; do not accept or prompt on "Java"] <Bentley>
An author who claimed that "imagination is the only weapon in" these places wrote a novel partly titled for them in which Thomas gets a magic guitar from Robert Johnson. In a novel set in one of these locations called Turtle Mountain, Lipsha uses male and female goose hearts in an attempt to make a drug that will disrupt the love triangle between Marie, Lulu, and Nector. Abel stabs Juan Reyes to death after returning to one of these places in a novel by (*) N. Scott Momaday, while a novel titled after their "blues" follows includes characters from the collection The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven by Sherman Alexie. For 10 points, name these communities that include the setting of Louise Erdrich's Love Medicine, a novel about Ojibwa people.ANSWER: Indian reservations [or the rez; accept Reservation Blues] <Smart>
A novel by this author contains chapters describing "the Massacre of the Coconut Isles" and "the Skirmish in Normandy." This author's recurring character G.H. Bondy sells thousands of free-energyproducing Karburators in one novel, and in another finances a pearl-fishing business involving the title creatures that is organized by Captain van Toch. A play by this man opens with a man dictating to his secretary (*) Sulla and later suddenly proposing to a representative of the League of Humanity. That play by this man ends with Alquist trying to recreate a formula burned by Helena and dubbing Primus and Helena the new Adam and Eve. For 10 points, name this author of The Absolute at Large and The War with the Newts, a Czech writer who introduced the term "robot" in R.U.R.ANSWER: Karel Capek ["cha-peck", but literal English readings are also acceptable] <Brownstein>
This man cooks a meal for forty people in a story that he narrates in which he is the only man to respond to a thrice-addressed plea for help. This man's letters and sermons are collected in the volume The Peak of Eloquence. This man tore down a door to use as a shield in a battle fought against the Jews of Khaybar Oasis, after which he was awarded the appellation "Lion of God." The Kharijites (*) rejected this man's leadership, and assassinated him while he was praying in Kufah, ending the first Fitna. Though some consider this man the last of the four rightly-guided Caliphs, others think he is the first post-Muhammad Imam. For 10 points, name this son-in-law of Muhammad, whose importance is disputed by the Sunnis and Shia.ANSWER: Ali ibn Abi Talib [or al-Murtaza; or Amir Al-Mu'mineen; or Bab-e-Madinatul-ilm; or Murtadha; or Asadullah; or Haydar] <Gupta>
A group of protesters within this movement, infamous for covering paint spots on walls with graffiti of dwarves, is known as the Orange Alternative. This movement distributed the banned text Theses on Hope and Hopelessness, and grew out of a precursor called the KOR. This movement was reluctantly granted legal status by First Secretary of the PUWP, Edward Gierek. By engaging in the (*) Round Table Talks, this movement secured free elections in 1989 after the resignation of Wojciech Jaruzelski (VOI-check YA-ru-zelski). This movement was impelled by the first papal trip taken by John Paul II to his home country, and it was led by a former electrician at the Lenin Shipyard in Gdansk. For 10 points, name this anti-Communist trade union led by Lech Walesa in Poland.ANSWER: Solidarity [or Solidarnosc; or Independent Self-governing Trade Union "Solidarity"; or Niezalezny Samorzadny Zwiazek Zawodowy "Solidarnosc"] <Gupta>
Three of these figures who can only say "da" or "ja", rather than "yes" and "no," feature in George Boolos's Hardest Logic Puzzle Ever. Xenophanes wrote a scathing critique of earlier Greek views about them. Cicero wrote a three-book dialogue On the Nature of beings of this sort. In an early Platonic dialogue, a man who claims to be close to them insists on suing his father. Louis-Auguste Blanqui coined an anarchist slogan demanding (*) none of these beings and "no masters." A dilemma in which the love of these beings seems to be arbitrary is presented in Plato's dialogue Euthyphro, which equates love for these beings with piety. For 10 points, name these beings whose existence is denied by as mere "delusion" by Richard Dawkins and other New Atheists.ANSWER: gods [or deities] <Jackson> - Page 2 of 13 5. Like pressure, this quantity is plotted on the y-axis of Fletcher-Munson contours after scaling via Aweighting. The net value for this quantity is zero in a diffuse field but is maximized in the active field. This quantity is proportional to both frequency squared and maximum displacement squared, or alternatively, it equals one-half the pressure squared over a non-electrical quantity called impedance. This quantity equals the product of particle velocity and pressure. It drops off with one over radius squared since it equals power over the (*) surface area of an imaginary sphere. The level of this quantity equals ten times the logarithm of it divided by one picowatt per square meter—a reference value also known as the threshold of hearing. For 10 points, name this quantity often measured in decibels.
The colonial governors of this modern-day country demanded the output from 1/5th of each village's land through the Culture System established in the 1830s. Wahabi converts in this nation rebelled against aristocratic chiefs in the Padri War. Forces from this nation carried out the Santa Cruz Massacre against supporters of FRETILIN during its occupation of a territory that seceded in 2002. A wave of violence followed a failed coup by its (*) 30 September Movement. Its first leader advocated internationalism as part of his Pancasila policy and practiced "Guided Democracy" after expelling the Japanese and throwing off the Dutch colonial yoke. For 10 points, name this island country whose first post-independence leader was Sukarno, the world's most populous Muslim nation.ANSWER: Republic of Indonesia <Bentley>
In the Levins metapopulation model, the carrying capacity is one minus the rate of this process divided by the colonization rate. In island biogeography, species richness equilibrates where the rate of this process equals the colonization rate. Species formerly thought to have undergone this process are called Lazarus taxa. In the IUCN Red List, the opposite end of (*) "least concern" indicates that this process happened. Climate change may have contributed to this process in the golden toad. One of the largest "mass" examples happened at the Permian-Triassic boundary, and its main anthropogenic cause is habitat degradation. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which the population of a species declines to zero, which happened to the passenger pigeon in 1914.ANSWER: extinction <Kothari>
A character in this novel dies shortly after learning of the death of his favorite daughter Una. Another of its characters becomes rich selling beans in an effort motivated by his father's failure in a refrigerated lettuce-shipping venture. In this novel, the cook Lee tells a story about his Chinese relatives learning Hebrew to study the Bible, during which they discover that the word (*) timshel translates as "thou mayest". Samuel Hamilton attempts to help the protagonist of this novel, whose antagonist poisons the madame Faye and takes over a brothel after abandoning her family, including her sons Cal and Aron. Its protagonist marries the villainous Cathy Ames before moving to the Salinas Valley. For 10 points, name this novel about Adam Trask, by John Steinbeck.ANSWER: East of Eden <Carson>
One of this artist's recurring symbols was inspired by a childhood incident in which he witnessed a dead bat being devoured. In one of his paintings, fingers protrude from the earth while holding a cracked egg from which a flower grows, although the crack also appears to be the flower's shadow. This painter of The (*) Metamorphosis of Narcissus often used ants to symbolize decay, and he included a small portrait of his wife Gala in The Hallucinogenic Toreador. He also painted "The Disintegration of" an earlier painting, which he claimed was inspired by Camembert cheese and not Einstein's theory of relativity. For 10 points, name this Catalan surrealist who painted melting clocks in The Persistence of Memory.ANSWER: Salvador Dalí <Rosenberg> - Page 3 of 13 10. A blue-covered book on this topic ends with a particularly-phrased account of the creation narrative and was written by George Demeter. Texts on this subject by Arthur Beauchesne (boo-shen) and John George Bourinot (bor-ih-noe) are used in Canada. The most authoritative text on this topic in the U.K. is by Thomas Erskine May. One version of this topic substitutes "moving the previous question" with (*) "cloture". Texts on this topic stress protecting the right of the minority to be heard while allowing the majority to make decisions and outline the ways people can bring motions. The most common American text on this subject is Robert's Rules of Order. For 10 points, give the term for the set of customs used in the operation of a deliberative assembly, such as a meeting or a legislature.
Late in this poem, a man "'Brushing with hasty steps the dews away / 'To meet the sun upon the upland lawn" is described by the "hoary-headed swain" who narrates five of its final stanzas. The speaker of this poem describes how "uncouth rhymes" and "shapeless sculpture" bedeck objects that also bear names and years "spelt by the unlettered muse". It also imagines how "Chill penury" repressed the "noble rage" of a "heart once pregnant with (*) celestial fire". This poem's speaker imagines a "Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood" or a "mute inglorious Milton" inhabiting this poem's title location, from which a ploughman "plods his weary way" as "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day". For 10 points, name this meditation on death, an elegy by Thomas Gray.ANSWER: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" <Carson>
A comment by society hostess Francis Anne Crewe that this man's ministry would be over soon after Christmas led it to be called the "mince-pie administration." This man appointed Thomas Townshend, the 1st Viscount Sydney president of his newly-created Board of Control for the East India Company. He returned to office after his successor Henry Addington signed the unpopular Peace of Amiens. This man (*) suspended habeas corpus for seven years and presided over the formal establishment of the United Kingdom. After this man's death, Lord Grenville set up the Ministry of All the Talents. This man was prime minister during both the French Revolution and the early Napoleonic Wars. For 10 points, name this British Prime Minister, the son of an earlier Prime Minister.ANSWER: William Pitt the Younger [prompt on William Pitt] <Bentley>
Yehudi Menuhin performed a duet with one performer of this instrument at the 1966 Bath Musical Festival and recorded the album West Meets East with him. Da, ra, and dir are among the strokes one can make on this instrument using a mizraab, and a technique called meend is used to bend pitches on it. This instrument has three or four melody strings, three drone strings called (*) chikari, and eleven to thirteen sympathetic strings called taraf tuned in accordance with the raga being played. George Harrison's lessons from a virtuoso of this instrument led him to use it in songs like "Norwegian Wood." For 10 points, name this plucked Hindustani instrument played by Vilayat Khan and Ravi Shankar.ANSWER: sitar <Kothari>
In a novel set in this country, a blue-painted thief escapes from prison and later helps Patrick Lewis blow up a filtration plant. An author from this country wrote a novel whose protagonist moves to Slocan with the title character and her uncle Isamu after her mother is disfigured in the bombing of Nagasaki. This country is the setting of In the Skin of a Lion, whose characters Caravaggio and Hana reappear in a novel whose title character reminisces about (*) Katherine Clifton. A Sri Lankan author who lives in this country wrote a novel about the burned Count Laszlo de Almasy that won its Governor General's Award. For 10 points, name this country home to the author of Obasan, Joy Kogawa, and The English Patient author Michael Ondaatje, both of whom live in Toronto.ANSWER: Canada <Carson> - Page 4 of 13 15. John Anthony "Shorty" Powers was a spokesperson on behalf of several members of this profession. A politician who retired from this profession was unable to campaign for senator against Stephen M. Young because he suffered a concussion from hitting his head on a bathtub. The Rogers Commission investigated the death of seven people in this profession, who were eulogized in a speech stating that they "touched the (*) face of God." Wally Schirra was one of the seven men in this profession profiled in Tom Wolfe's The Right Stuff. Several O-rings around boosters failed and killed seven people in this occupation, including the former schoolteacher Christa MacAuliffe, in the 1986 Challenger disaster. For 10 points, name this profession of John Glenn and Neil Armstrong.
Researchers from the Royal Institute of Technology from Stockholm developed a type of this technique detecting the release of the anion pyrophosphate. The SOLiD and ion torrent types of this technique are grouped together as the "next-generation" methods, which supplanted an older version of this technique using phosphorus-32-labelled ATP, developed by Maxam and Gilbert. Multiple overlapping reads are combined into contigs in a (*) piecemeal type of this process. Chain-terminating dideoxynucleotides, or ddNTPs, are selectively incorporated in a type of this process named for a British biochemist. For 10 points, name these techniques, such as the "shotgun" and "Sanger" types, that determine the order of nucleotides in a molecule of DNA.ANSWER: DNA sequencing [or word forms; accept pyrosequencing; accept Maxam-Gilbert sequencing; accept Sanger sequencing; accept dideoxy method; accept shotgun sequencing] <Gupta>
Around this river, Henry Walter Bates's decade-long study of butterflies led to a pioneering biology paper on mimicry. This river's basin contains large amounts of charcoal-rich terra preta soil. This river is home to an aquatic mammal which turns pink when excited, a dolphin called the boto. This largest habitat of the bony-tongued arapaima fish joins a darker-colored tributary at the (*) Meeting of Waters after a sandy-colored upper section often called the Solimoes. It empties into the ocean near Marajo Island and rises near Iquitos, the largest city in the world inaccessible by road. The Rio Negro, which rises in Colombia, joins this river at the rainforest city of Manaus. For 10 points, name this longest river in South America.ANSWER: Amazon River <Wang>
This island is home to a giant who has a single nail that keeps shut a blood vein running from his ankle to his head. Two men from this island quarrel for the affection of Miletus. A plague is brought to this island by a king who sacrifices the first living thing he sees after returning from Troy. This island is the home of the bronze giant Talos and the king Idomeneus. After this island's champion Androgeus wins a (*) sporting event, it demands annual sacrifices from Athens. A hero that travels to this island is given a ball of yarn by Ariadne in order to navigate an impossible structure designed by Daedalus. For 10 points, name this Greek island home to the Labyrinth, which Theseus navigates to slay the Minotaur.ANSWER: Crete [or Knossos] <Kim>
A unique type of these objects that has absorption lines greater than a thousand kilometers per second in width is the BAL, or broad-asborption line, type. Intense gravitational lensing creates four images of one of these objects in the Einstein cross. These objects are useful for studying density fluctuations in the early universe because their radiation is absorbed by intergalactic clouds and galaxies, creating a (*) forest of lines blueward of their Lyman-alpha line. It's conjectured that these objects having their relativistic jets pointed at Earth explains blazars. These active galactic nuclei are powered by accretion onto supermassive black holes. For 10 points, what most energetic objects in the universe are also called quasi-stellar radio sources?ANSWER: quasars [or quasi-stellar radio sources or QSOs until "quasi-stellar" is read] <Jose> - Page 5 of 13 20. Erik Satie's Dessicated Embryos parodies a piano sonata of this number, although it falsely claims to be an homage to Schubert. Brahms's string sextet of this number contains a recurring musical cryptogram that spells out the name "Agathe" (A-ga-ta), and is the last such sextet he wrote. A chord based on the scale degree of this number is called "supertonic". Chopin's nocturne of this number from his opus 9 is in E-flat and is his most popular, while his (*) piano sonata of this number is in B-flat minor and is best-known for its third-movement funeral march. Mahler's symphony of this number is called "Resurrection." For 10 points, give this minimum number of notes required to make a musical interval and the number of violins in a standard string quartet.
The protagonist of a novel by this author has a sister who goes into a near-catatonic state named for the "13th Zodiac sign" of the Starfish. A mother discovers an African-American washerwoman's baby buried alive in her garden in a novel by this author in which an Eastern-European immigrant who makes paper silhouettes becomes a "baron" in the animation industry. This man based Paul and Rochelle Isaacson's (*) execution on that of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg for his novel The Book of Daniel. After his Model T Ford is destroyed by firemen, Coalhouse Walker becomes a terrorist in a novel by this author that includes historical characters such as J.P. Morgan and Harry Houdini. For 10 points, name this American author of Ragtime.ANSWER: E. L. Doctorow [or Edgar Lawrence Doctorow] <Gupta>
Sinapinic acid is most commonly used for this procedure. It often requires helium to be pumped into a collision cell in an intermediate step. This technique is done twice in a row, or in tandem, to sequence proteins. In a common method of prepping this procedure, a laser is fired at a matrix to desorb a sample. The output of this procedure is commonly shown as a bar graph with an M+1 signal right next to the (*) base peak, which is the radical cation formed in this procedure's first step. This technique measures the abundance of each m-over-z ratio in a sample by subjecting fragments to a magnetic field. For 10 points, name this form of spectrometry which distinguishes between isotopes because of the difference in ions' molecular weights.ANSWER: mass spectrometry <Silverman>
This party worked with the COD, an organization whose members included Helen Joseph and the lawyer Bram Fischer. This organization's Programme of Action was replaced by a document which states "we the people shall govern!", its Freedom Charter. 156 members of this party were acquitted at the Treason Trial, which inspired Oliver Tambo to leave the country and lead this party from exile. A member of this party declared "I am prepared to die" at the Rivonia Trial. The (*) Church Street bombing was carried out by this party's armed wing known as Umkhonto we Sizwe, which was originally formed in response to the Sharpeville Massacre. A leader of this party was imprisoned for 27 years on Robben Island. For 10 points, name this South African political party once led by Nelson Mandela.ANSWER: ANC [or African National Congress] <Wang>
Goods produced by this ethnic group were carried by the ship United Kalavryta, which was stuck in legal limbo for six months off the coast of Texas in 2014. Photographer Jacob Russell captured many images of female fighters of this ethnic group within a force whose name means "one who faces death." These people, who made up a plurality of the short lived Mahabad Republic after World War II, have yet to carry out a (*) self-rule referendum proposed by Masoud Barzani. Soldiers from this ethnic group's peshmerga force helped defend the city of Kobani against an ISIS siege. In Halabja, thousands of people of this ethnic group were killed in a gas attack orchestrated by Saddam Hussein. For 10 points, name this ethnic group concentrated in Turkey and Northern Iraq.ANSWER: Kurds [or Iraqi Kurds; do not prompt on just "Iraqis"] <Bentley>
This quantity multiplies residence time in the Damköhler number, and is divided by the diffusivity in the Thiele modulus. The exponential of one-half, times the square root of eight times Boltzmann's constant over pi, appears in a classical derivation for this quantity. The kinetic isotope effect is a ratio of these quantities. This quantity has units of molarity to the one minus n, over seconds, where n is the (*) order. The natural logarithm of two, divided by this quantity, equals the half-life. According to collision theory, this quantity equals a pre-exponential factor times e to the negative activation energy, over RT, by the Arrhenius equation. For 10 points, name this constant which measures how quickly a reaction occurs.ANSWER: reaction rate constant [prompt on reaction rate; prompt on k] <Silverman>
An instructor peers over the shoulder of a woman in the center of a Samuel Morse painting set in one of these places. The light and temperature of one of these places varied as part of Olafur Eliasson's The Weather Project. A man symbolically puts Louis XIV to rest by packing up a crate in one of these places in the painting Gersaint's Shop Sign by Jean-Antoine Watteau. One of these places was filled with millions of porcelain sunflower seeds by Ai Weiwei ("eye" way-way) and is called (*) Turbine Hall. One in Washington, DC is split between a neoclassical west building and an east building designed by I. M. Pei, who also designed a glass pyramid that is outside of one of these places in Paris. For 10 points, name these locations that include the Tate Modern and the Louvre.ANSWER: art gallery [or salon or art museum, or art store before "shop" is mentioned; prompt on museum; prompt on hall or Turbine hall until mentioned] <Bentley>
In spaces described by this adjective, disjoint closed sets have disjoint open neighborhoods. Subgroups of this type are invariant under conjugation. Numbers of this type have uniformly distributed digits in every base. If a multi-dimensional surface is the level curve of a well-behaved function, then the gradient of the function is parallel to a vector of this type. A set of mutually (*) perpendicular vectors with unit length is called ortho-[this word]. The average of many independent random variables will approach a distribution named after this adjective, according to the central limit theorem. In that distributions, 68% of data falls within one standard deviation of the mean. For 10 points, identify this adjective which names the Gaussian bell-curve distribution.ANSWER: normal [prompt on perpendicular or bell] <Schindler> - Page 2 of 12 5. According to one thinker, this pair of concepts took on their present meaning after a process of ressentiment took hold among people akin to weak lambs being preyed upon by eagles. That same philosopher attributed the rise of this conceptual dichotomy to "three Jews," namely Jesus, Peter, and Paul. These concepts partly title a book which lauds the "free spirit" and opens by comparing past philosophers to inept seducers, asking "Suppose Truth is a (*) woman -- what then?" According to The Genealogy of Morals, the "slave morality" based itself around these two concepts after it removed master morality's concept of "the bad." For 10 points, name these two opposing moral concepts which Friedrich Nietzsche sought to move Beyond in an 1886 book.
A dramatic cantata by this composer based on Jerusalem Delivered is often cited as the first use of tremolo and pizzicato in orchestral music. That piece appears in a series' eighth book, which is divided into songs of love and songs of war. Together with his brother Giulio Cesare, this composer advocated a new style in which words governed the music, a style he referred to as the (*) seconda pratica. He wrote a total of nine books of madrigals, and his last opera chronicles how the mistress of Nerone becomes Empress of Rome. For 10 points, name this Italian composer who is generally considered to mark the beginning of the Baroque era, and who wrote the operas The Coronation of Poppea and L'Orfeo.ANSWER: Claudio Monteverdi <Rosenberg>
After hearing that a man is crying, a character in this play replies: "Then he's living." A character in this play tells a story about an Englishman frustrated that it took God only six days to create the world, when his tailor needs three months to make a pair of trousers. Another character in this play bestows the nickname "Old stancher" upon the large, bloodstained handkerchief covering his face. An (*) elderly couple who lost their legs in a biking accident in the Ardennes and live inside trash cans, named Nagg and Nell, torment their wheelchair-bound son and his always-standing servant in this play. For 10 points, name this one-act play about Hamm and Clov with a chess-inspired title, written by Samuel Beckett.ANSWER: Endgame [or Fin de partie] <Gupta>
Two participants in this event converted to Christianity after getting Matthew Quintal drunk and murdering him with a hatchet. A participant in this event named his son "Thursday October" because he sought "no name that will remind me of England." This event took place after a five-month layover during a breadfruit gathering expedition, and it forced a man to cover four thousand miles in an open (*) boat to reach safety. The HMS Pandora was sent to arrest the participants in this event, but ran aground on the Great Barrier Reef afterwards. Fletcher Christian led this revolt, many of whose participants ended up in Tahiti or Pitcairn Island. For 10 points, name this 1789 insurrection on a ship captained by William Bligh in the south Pacific.ANSWER: mutiny on the Bounty [or Bounty rebellion; accept any answers indicating that this is an uprising on the HMS Bounty; accept HMS Bounty after "insurrection" is read] <Gupta>
An event named for these objects was instigated by the secret Council of Sixteen and resulted in the issuance of the Edict of Union. Jaroslaw Dabrowski (YA-row-slav da-BROV-ski) died on one of these objects during the "Bloody Week." Many of them were built following the end of the "banquets campaign." The Mobile Guard destroyed many of these structures erected after the closing of the National Workshops. Henry, Duke of Guise, seized power on the so-called (*) "Day" of these structures. Victor Hugo's experience traversing these structures inspired the battle scenes in Les Miserables. These structures were used to block troops during events like the June Days and the February Revolution. For 10 points, name these makeshift fortifications that were often built during Parisian revolutions.ANSWER: barricades [or barrier; or blockade; or roadblock] <Brownstein> - Page 3 of 12 10. An author with this surname penned a line beginning "All true histories contain instruction", which opens a novel in which the flirty Rosalie regrets marrying Lord Ashby. That author created a character who helps Nancy Brown read the Bible, during which she meets her future husband Edward Weston, and works as a governess for the Bloomfield and Murray families. Another author with this surname wrote a novel that includes the dogs Fanny, who is hanged during the elopement of its owner Isabella, and (*) Skulker, who bites a girl at Thrushcross Grange. Nelly Dean tells Mr. Lockwood the history of the Earnshaw family and its adopted member Heathcliff in a novel by that author. For 10 points, give the surname shared by the authors of Agnes Grey and Wuthering Heights.
A ring of this organ's tissue constricts a nearby structure in a rare "annular" condition. A form of amyloidosis known as IAPP is frequently seen in diseased forms of this organ. The Golgi apparati of many cells in this organ contain C-peptide, which converts a protein made here to its active form. The centroacinar cells and intercalated ducts in this organ respond to the hormone secretin, enabling this structure to release bicarbonate. This organ's duct joins the common (*) bile duct just prior to the Ampulla of Vater. Like the salivary glands, this organ makes amylase. Cells in this organ are destroyed in type 1 diabetes. For 10 points, name this digestive organ whose beta cells in the islets of Langerhans produce insulin.ANSWER: pancreas <Gupta>
In this film, a housekeeper named Anna notices the protagonist sneaking around upstairs by seeing his reflection in the glare of a TV screen. At its climax, the shot transitions from the male lead pulling up his love interest from the edge of a cliff to him helping her onto a bed in a Pullman car. Early in this film, the hero liquored up at the house of UN diplomat Lester Townsend. The protagonist gets out of a jam by punching a man and getting arrested at an auction also attended by (*) Phillip Vandamm and his lover, played by Eva Marie Saint. In one iconic scene, the protagonist, an oft-divorced ad exec played by Cary Grant, is almost run-down by a crop duster. For 10 points, name this Alfred Hitchcock film which ends with a descent of Mount Rushmore.ANSWER: North by Northwest <Bentley>
Members of the "crocodile," or "Akali," order historically created elaborate "fortress" types of these objects. On the thirteenth day after the death of the eldest male in a family, one of these objects is transferred to the next oldest male family member. These items are exchanged between friends in the vatuani ceremony. People who don't own these objects must instead use a rumal before they can enter a (*) gurdwara. The kangha is typically tied underneath these objects, which in Punjabi are called dastaar or pagh, and serve to conceal the kesh. After being baptized into the khalsa, all men are required to wear these objects. For 10 points, name these distinctive pieces of headgear in Sikhism.ANSWER: Sikh turbans [or pagh before mentioned; or dastaar before mentioned; or pagri before "pagh" is read] <Gupta>
Norwegian-born sculptor Oscar J.W. Hanson designed a memorial commemorating 112 worker deaths during this project, many from carbon monoxide poisoning in four horrifyingly-hot diversion tunnels. Harold Ickes (ICK-uhs) lambasted the eventual namesake of this project for "tak[ing] credit for something he had nothing to do with." The Six Companies, Inc. joint venture was founded to oversee this project, superintended by chief engineer Frank Crowe. The Bureau of (*) Reclamation received its first mass funding to carry out this project, which built four reinforced concrete intake towers feeding steel penstocks. This project was named at the time of its completion for Boulder Canyon, and it impounded Lake Mead. For 10 points, name this dam on the border between Arizona and Nevada.ANSWER: the construction of Hoover Dam [accept the construction of Boulder Dam before "Boulder Dam" is mentioned; accept the Boulder Canyon project before "Boulder Dam" is mentioned] <Gupta> - Page 4 of 12 15. In the Metamorphoses, the rape of Persephone is retold during a narration of one of these events. In the aftermath of this type of event, the daughters of Pierus are transformed into magpies. An instance of this event is arbitrated by the mountain god Tmolus. A participant in one of these events uses a cursed object that Athena previously threw away because it ruined her beauty, but is defeated when that object, an aulos, cannot be used upside-down. For his poor (*) judgment of one of these competitions, donkey ears are given to Midas. After his defeat at this activity, Marsyas is flayed alive by Apollo. For 10 points, identify this type of competition which Pan participated in with his pipes, and Apollo with his lyre.
Near the end of this novel, the protagonist makes a papal sign of the cross while overlooking a beach. A woman in this novel intentionally causes her husband to drive their car off the road, then proceeds to laugh maniacally as he checks on the children. After punching several Italian taxi drivers, the protagonist of this novel is bailed out of jail by Baby, whose sister later seduces the war hero Tommy Barban. In this novel, the young star of the film Daddy's Girl, (*) Rosemary Hoyt, loses her virginity to a psychiatrist who married one of his schizophrenic patients. The tumultuous relationship of this novel's central couple was based on that of the author and his wife Zelda. For 10 points, name this novel about Nicole and Dick Diver, by F. Scott Fitzgerald.ANSWER: Tender is the Night <Sy>
A study by Jonathan Haidt found that people who fit this descriptor worldwide express concern about only two or three "moral foundations," whereas most people respond to five or six. An essay critiquing the Kinsey report appears in an essay collection titled for the Imagination of this sort of person by literary critic Lionel Trilling. Libertarians often (*) sympathize with one type of these people, whose economic views were often laissez-faire. Paul Krugman self-identified as one of these people in a book and blog that invert a Barry Goldwater title to discuss the Conscience of this type of person. For 10 points, name this political adjective for left-ofcenter people in favor of freedom and equality, who often oppose conservatives.ANSWER: liberal [or word forms such as liberalism; accept descriptive answers such as left-of-center until "Imagination"] <Jackson>
In the original solution of a first-order equation comprised of three alpha matrices and a beta matrix, this particle's wavefunction has a positive imaginary exponential. In a famous photograph, one of these particles travels through a lead plate and loses its radius of curvature as it travels upward. Fluorodeoxyglucose is a source of these particles. Pauli and Weisskopf explained how this particle gives a (*) negative energy density in the Klein-Gordon equation. When a photon of energy greater than 1.02 MeV undergoes pair production, an electron and this particle are formed. The Dirac equation predicted this particle as a "hole" in a sea of electrons. For 10 points, name this particle symbolized e+, which is the antiparticle of the electron.ANSWER: positron [or antielectron] <Silverman>
One woman in this short story claims "you never cross O'Connell Bridge without seeing a white horse." Its protagonist gives the maid Lily some money after he embarrassingly mentions her marriage prospects, and later imagines a painting of his wife titled "Distant Music." This story's protagonist is called a "West Briton" by Molly Ivors for his refusal to vacation in the Aran Islands. This short story contains a performance of "The Lass of Aughrim" by tenor (*) Bartell D'Arcy at a dinner party thrown by the Morkan sisters. The protagonist's wife Gretta reveals her childhood love affair with a man who died waiting outside her window in the rain, Michael Furey. Gabriel Conroy has an emotional crisis in, for 10 points, what final short story from James Joyce's Dubliners?ANSWER: "The Dead" <Weiser> - Page 5 of 12 20. Some examples of this city's pottery was created by an artist known as Ninsei. Rulers from this city would abdicate and retire to a monastery in the system of "cloistered rule." Two rival factions camped inside of this city in a 15th century civil war that kicked off the Warring States Period and left it mostly leveled. Five centuries later, it was spared from destruction in part because Henry Stimson had visited it on his honeymoon. A 1997 (*) treaty named for this city did not require developing nations such as China to restrict their greenhouse gas emissions. The temple of Kinkaku-ji was destroyed and then rebuilt following a 1950 arson in this city, whose fortunes declined after the Tokugawa Shogunate moved to Edo. For 10 points, name this former capital of Japan.
A poem by this author describes a group which does not care if the "moon rattles like a fragment of angry candy." In a poem by this author, "an host of overjoyed noncoms" make use of "brushes recently employed" in a "muddy toiletbowl." This poet wrote of people who "believe in Christ and Longfellow, both dead" in "the Cambridge ladies who live in furnished souls." In another poem, he described a man who was "more brave than me: more (*) blond than you" and "whose warmest heart recoiled at war." Several variants on the line "sun moon stars rain" appear in a poem by this man about a person who marries "noone" in a place with "up so floating many bells down." For 10 points, name this American poet of "I sing of olaf glad and big" and "anyone lived in a pretty how town."ANSWER: E. E. Cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings] <Brownstein>
A zinc atom binds to the H1 helix and L3 loop of this protein, whose oligomerization domain allows it to form a tetramer and interact with DNA. The E6 and E7 proteins encoded by HPV respectively degrade this protein and the very similar Rb. As a transcription factor, this protein upregulates the expression of Bax and PUMA, members of the Bcl-2 gene family. The serine/threonine kinase (*) ATM phosphorylates this protein to prevent it from being polyubiquitinated and degraded by Mdm2. This protein, which is essential for cell-cycle arrest at the G1 checkpoint, is mutated or deleted in over half of all human tumors. For 10 points, name this tumor suppressor gene known as the "guardian angel of the genome."ANSWER: tumor protein p53 [or cellular tumor antigen p53; or phosphoprotein p53; or tumor suppressor p53; or antigen NY-CO-13; or transformation-related protein 53; or TRP53] <Gupta>
Oscar V. Peterson suffered third-degree burns in the process of closing several steam-line valves during this battle, for which he won a posthumous Medal of Honor. This battle thwarted Operation Mo, which was later reattempted later the same year by an advance through the Kokoda Track. Just prior to this battle, one side had engaged in a successful invasion of Tulagi. The (*) Shoho was sunk and the Lexington was critically damaged in this battle, which prevented the Japanese from invading Port Moresby. This battle marked the first time in naval history that ships did not directly engage each other, instead launching aircraft from carriers. For 10 points, name this 1942 naval battle fought to the northeast of the Australian coast.ANSWER: Battle of the Coral Sea <Huang>
