1. Before one victory, this general got into a shouting match with Benedict Arnold and relieved him of command. Known as "Granny," this man's allies tried to place him above George Washington as part of the Conway Cabal. He was the overall commander at the 1777 battle where John Burgoyne surrendered. For 10 points, name this victor at the Battle of Saratoga. ANSWER: Horatio Lloyd Gates 
2. George Chesney wrote a book where the Royal Navy is destroyed by "fatal engines" of this country. The Battle of Dorking was the first in the genre of "invasion literature" about this country attacking England. A poem describing the world before England went to war with this country describes "Never such innocence, Never before nor since." Another poem about a war with it denounces "the old Lie" and is by Wilfred Owen. For 10 points, name this country that England fought in World War I. ANSWER: Germany 
3. In the aftermath of this event, Herbert Quiers looted disturbed areas, an action denounced in the essay "To the Person Sitting in Darkness" by Mark Twain. As this movement was gaining strength, the Guangxu (gwang-SHOO) Emperor's Hundred Days' Reform ended. The Eight-Nation Alliance worked to suppress this event, which was initially supported by the Empress Dowager Cixi (SEE-shee). For 10 points, name this turn-of-the-twentieth century rebellion against imperialism in China. ANSWER: Boxer Rebellion [or Righteous Harmony Society Movement] 
4. Jean Chretien campaigned against this pact when he defeated Kim Campbell, but still agreed to it. This treaty's predecessor had left out a country represented by Carlos Salinas. This treaty, inspired by the European Economic Community, eliminated tariffs between its three members. For 10 points, name this 1992 agreement between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. ANSWER: NAFTA [or North American Free Trade Agreement ] 
5. During this battle, one commander stood in the line of fire in order to get his brother, Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, to safety. Thomas Erpingham led the archers in this engagement. The battleground in this battle, wet from rain the previous day, was utilized by one side's placing of stakes to combat the enemy's cavalry. The losing side during this battle was commanded by Charles d'Albret and was bogged down by the opposite side's longbows. For 10 points, name this 1415 battle during the Hundred Years' War, an English victory by Henry V. ANSWER: Battle of Agincourt 
6. This scandal originated at the "little green house on K street" and led to the Supreme Court case of McGrain v. Daugherty. This event was investigated by Montana Senator Thomas Walsh. This scandal resulted in the first imprisonment of a Cabinet member. It involved Secretary of the Interior Albert Fall making deals with companies such as Mammoth Oil. For 10 points, name this scandal in which Navy petroleum reserves were leased to private companies during the Warren Harding administration. ANSWER: Teapot Dome scandal 
7. This man had debates with John Wallis and Seth Ward over this man’s alleged squaring of the circle. He wrote a history of the English Civil War entitled Behemouth, or, The Long Parliament . This man wrote a trilogy called De Copore . In another work by this man, he argued that the power of a sovereign was defined by might and explained his view of a commonwealth. For 10 points, name this British political philosopher who claimed that the natural state of man was “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short” in Leviathan . ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes 
8. This leader's death was prompted by a message from defence minister von Blomburg that Hindenburg intended to declare martial law. His deputy was Edmund Heines, who was also notably homosexual. This leader commanded the SA after the Stennes Revolt, although the SA was soon superseded by the SS after he and other SA leaders were purged at Bad Wiessee. For 10 points, name this Nazi leader who was executed as part of the Night of the Long Knives on Hitler's orders as a possible rival. ANSWER: Ernst Rohm 
9. Hodge Backmaker undoes this event by observing it in Ward Moore's novel Bring the Jubilee. This event occurs as a result of time-traveling South Africans who donate AK-47s in a 1992 novel by Harry Turtledove. A 2004 Kevin Willmott film is set as a documentary showing several commercials and movies from a reality where this event took place. For 10 points, identify this popular scenario for alternate history fiction, which usually hinges on Robert E. Lee winning the Battle of Gettysburg. ANSWER: the South winning the Civil War [or equivalents such as the Confederacy winning the Civil War ; since nearly all the scenarios diverge at Gettysburg, accept the South winning the Battle of Gettysburg or equivalents until "Gettysburg" is read] 
10. One commander at this battle, Henry Percy, refused to move his forces when signaled, and another leader of forces for that side was John Howard. Thomas and William Stanley initially remained unengaged at this battle, but encircled and killed Richard III, leaving Henry Tudor the victor. For 10 points, name this battle that closed the Wars of the Roses. ANSWER: Battle of Bosworth Field 
Quarter Two
1. This artist showed a woman in a black and white dress holding opera glass in La Loge . A black and white dog sits next to two girls in blue dresses in his Madame Charpentier and her children . He also showed a grouped of leisurely Parisians in Dance at Le Moulin de la Galette . Two men in t-shirts and straw hats dominate the foreground of another of his works, which shows a group dining along the Seine. For 10 points, name this French Impressionist who painted The Luncheon of the Boating Party . ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste Renoir BONUS: Many of Renoir’s works are located in what Parisian museum, located in an old Beaux-Arts train station, that also houses Manet’s Luncheon on the Grass ? ANSWER: Musee d’Orsay 
2. This monarch ascended to the throne after the death of George VI and then quickly embarked on a tour of Australia and New Zealand. This ruler presided over many colonies achieving independence, including Rhodesia and Nigeria. This monarch's son Charles divorced Lady Diana Spencer before her death in a car accident. For 10 points, name this current Queen of the United Kingdom. ANSWER: Elizabeth II of England [or Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; prompt on Elizabeth ] BONUS: Elizabeth II is a member of this British royal house founded by George V, who changed the name of the house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha because of anti-German sentiment. ANSWER: House of Windsor 
3. One general of this man won a battle off Cape Naulochus that destroyed the fleet of Sextus Pompeius. Before that victory, this ruler was given ships by the Treaty of Tarentum. This man had his successor and Drusus the Elder invade Germany, which was stopped after the destruction of Varus' army in Teutoburg Forest. Marcus Agrippa won the Battle of Actium for this man against his former ally in the Second Triumvirate, Mark Antony. For 10 points, name this adopted son of Julius Caesar who served as the first Roman emperor. ANSWER: Augustus Caesar [or Gaius Julius Caesar Octavian us; or Gaius Octavius ] BONUS: As the first emperor, Augustus established what force of personal bodyguards for future Roman emperors? ANSWER: Praetorian Guard [or Cohors Praetoria ] 
4. This general defeated Horatio Gates in Camden, South Carolina and a technically Nathanael Greene-led force at the Battle of Guilford Courthouse. This man's most famous defeat came after the Admiral Comte de Grasse blocked relief from coming up the Chesapeake Bay to Yorktown. For 10 points, identify this commanding general of the British during the Revolutionary War. ANSWER: Lord Charles Cornwallis BONUS: This French commander forced Lord Cornwallis to retreat to, and subsequently become entrapped in, Yorktown. ANSWER: Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, marquis de Lafayette 
5. In one work by this artist, a slender plucked chicken stands between two sitting plump hens. That painting, Adolescence , closely mirrors a work in which three scowling women stand in front of Leutze’s Washington Crossing the Delaware . This artist of Daughters of Revolution depicted the Dibble House behind a couple modeled on his sister Nan and his dentist Byron McKeeby, who is shown holding a pitchfork in one of his paintings. For 10 points, name this Regionalist artist who painted American Gothic . ANSWER: Grant DeVolson Wood BONUS: Name the Missouri-born Regionalist artist of the mural America Today and a large nude Persephone who also taught Jackson Pollock. ANSWER: Thomas Hart Benton 
6. This man’s government was brought down by fears of war aroused during the Chanak Incident. As chancellor of the exchequer, this man promoted the People’s Budget, and he was succeeded in his highest post by the Conservative Party’s Bonar Law. In that post, this man attended a peace conference with Georges Clemenceau and Woodrow Wilson. For 10 points, name this man who served as British Prime Minister during World War I. ANSWER: David Lloyd George [do not accept or prompt on “George”] BONUS: What British Secretary of State for War appeared on British recruiting posters during World War I and had defeated the forces of the Mahdi in 1898. ANSWER: Lord Horatio Kitchener 
7. Generals Phillips, Arnold, and Cornwallis conspired to destroy 10,000 hogsheads of this substance. The Chesapeake Consignment System dictated how this substance would be sold overseas. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson nearly went bankrupt after its prices fell precipitously. Colonial sentiment soared after Britain switched to Turkish and Egyptian-grown varieties of it. This substance was first grown in the United States from seeds brought from Trinidad by John Rolfe. For 10 points, name this nicotine-containing drug. ANSWER: tobacco BONUS: Name this kind of inland tax levied on the sale and production of such products as alcohol and tobacco. ANSWER: excise tax [or sin tax; or duty of excise special tax] 
8. This practice drove the economies of the kingdoms of Khasso and Bamana. An illegal instance of this practice was the subject of the Amistad case. The Bight of Benin was a major center of this activity. Ignatius Sancho argued for the end of this enterprise in Britain, as did William Wilberforce. The U.S. Constitution prohibited ending this practice before the 1808. It formed the westbound leg of the triangular trade. For 10 points, name this exchange that involved capturing and transporting people from West Africa. ANSWER: Atlantic slave trade [or equivalent answers; prompt on slavery ] BONUS: What common name for the slave experience during the trans-Atlantic trade reflects its position at the crux of the Triangular Trade? ANSWER: the middle passage 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: POST-WORLD WAR II AMERICA QUESTION: Following World War II, which…... 1. Asian nation was in poor shape after being bombed at Hiroshima and Nagasaki? ANSWER: Japan [or Nihon -koku; or Nippon -koku] 2. 33rd American President and Vice President to FDR was in power? ANSWER: Harry S. Truman 3. Company made the top-selling Chevrolet and Cadillac lines of cars? ANSWER: GM [or General Motors ] 4. Wisconsin Senator led "witch-hunts" against potential Communists? ANSWER: Joseph Raymond McCarthy 5. Organization was formed as a successor to the Office of Strategic Services? ANSWER: CIA [or Central Intelligence Agency ] 6. Secretary of State was the namesake of a financial plan to aid European nations? ANSWER: George Catlett Marshall 7. Piece of legislation amended the Wagner Act over the President's veto? ANSWER: Taft-Hartley Act [or Taft-Hartley Bill] 8. Tennessee Senator led hearings against the Mafia and comic books? ANSWER: Estes Kefauver 
CATEGORY: WORLD LITERATURE QUESTION: Which pre-16th century author wrote…. 1. The Canterbury Tales? ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer 2. The Divine Comedy? ANSWER: Dante Alighieri 3. The Decameron? ANSWER: Giovanni Boccaccio 4. Africa, and several sonnets to Laura? ANSWER: Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca ] 5. Le Morte d’Arthur? ANSWER: Thomas Malory 6. many poems to Lesbia? ANSWER: Gaius Valerius Catullus 7. Sir Gawain and the Green Knight? ANSWER: The Pearl Poet 8. Piers Plowman? ANSWER: William Langland 
CATEGORY: OLD EUROPEAN CURENCIES QUESTION: Prior to the adoption of the Euro, what was the largest country that used the...… 1. Deutschmark (DOYTCH-mark)? ANSWER: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland ] 2. Franc? ANSWER: Republic of France [or Republique francaise ] 3. Lira? ANSWER: Italy [or Italian Republic ; or Repubblica Itali ana] 4. Drachma (DROK-muh)? ANSWER: Greece [or Hellenic Republic ; or Ellenika Demokratia ] 5. Guilder? ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden ] 6. Peseta? ANSWER: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España ] 7. Schilling? ANSWER: Republic of Austria [or Republik Osterreich ] 8. Markka? ANSWER: Republic of Finland [or Suomen tasavalta or Suomi ] 
Quarter Four
1. Along with the Q document, this text is one of the sources in the two-source hypothesis. The man credited with being the author of this text founded the Church of Alexandria, though that man's body was stolen by (+) Venetians in 828. What is probably the original ending of this book, chapter 16, verse 8, does not describe the resurrected Jesus, and it is the only synoptic Gospel to not describe Jesus's (*) birth. This book is the oldest of the Gospels, though it appears second after Matthew. For 10 points, name this shortest Gospel. ANSWER: Gospel of Mark 
2. This team lost the longest game in NFL history to the Dolphins in double overtime. As quarterback for this team, Len Dawson threw for one touchdown in a 35-10 loss to the Green Bay Packers in (+) season with (*) this team. For 10 points, name this National Football League team whose 2012 roster includes Jamaal Charles and a quarterback who replaced Matt Cassel, Brady Quinn. ANSWER: Kansas City Chiefs [or Kansas City Chiefs] 
3. During one of these events, Robert Moses's high-handedness caused their international governing bureau to withhold official sanction. The Westinghouse Company buried time capsules to be opened in 6939 during two of these events. The animatronic "It's a Small World" (+) ride was first introduced at one of these events, and an earlier one displayed fluorescent lights and a diorama of "the (*) World of Tomorrow" in the Trylon. Two of these events were held in Flushing Meadows in 1939 and 1964. For 10 points, name these international expositions. ANSWER: New York World's Fair s 
4. A reply to this man “On Behalf of the Fool” from Psalms 14:1 and Psalms 53:1 was given by the monk Gaunilo, who devised the “Lost Island” fallacy to refute him. This thinker was recalled to his country and exiled for a second time by Henry I. In his (+) Proslogion , this thinker asks the reader to conceive of that being than whom no greater being can be thought, and implies from there that such a being is (*) imperfect if it non-exists rather than exists. For 10 points, name this Archbishop of Canterbury who was canonized in part for devising the ontological argument for God’s existence. ANSWER: Saint Anselm of Canterbury 
5. This man was the butt of a popular joke in which he attempts to needle Zhou Enlai about coming from a family of rich merchants, only to be told "we are both traitors to our class." This politician arranged the execution of Lavrenty (+) Beria and appointed Nikolay Bulganin to replace Georgy Malenkov. At the 20th Congress of the Communist Party, he gave a (*) "secret speech" denouncing his predecessor's cult of personality and the excesses of the Great Purge of the 1930s. For 10 points, name this head of the Soviet Union who succeeded Joseph Stalin. ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev 
6. In one song, this man has “the gentle folk around him, They say he's grown so tarnal proud (+), he will not ride without them.” That song is (*) “Yankee Doodle.” This man's opponents supposedly played a song whose lyrics are about a ban on Christmas celebrations, “The World Turned Upside Down,” at one of his victories. For 10 points, name this first American president. ANSWER: George Washington 
7. Charlotte Dupuy sued this politician for the freedom of herself and her two sons. With John Allen, this man defended Aaron Burr in an 1806 trial for planning an invasion of Spanish territory. This owner of the Ashland estate lost the 1844 Presidential election to James (+) K. Polk. This Senator was accused of participating in a "Corrupt Bargain" with John (*) Quincy Adams during the 1824 election, and he was the main author of the Missouri Compromise and the Compromise of 1850. For 10 points, name this Kentucky Senator, who thus earned the nickname "the Great Compromiser." ANSWER: Henry Clay 
8. This nation’s anti-communist Patriotic People’s Movement was a continuation of its earlier far-right Lapua movement. In one conflict this country employed a sniper called the (+) White Death. This nation, which used motti encirclement tactics to win the Battle of Raate Road, was forced to lease Porkkala after losing the (*) Continuation War. During another conflict it was led by Carl Mannerheim. For 10 points, name this nation which fought the Winter War with the Soviet Union, and was the site of the signing of the Helsinki Accords. ANSWER: Finland 
9. Ryan DeGraffenreid blocked a constitutional amendment in this state revising gubernatorial term limits. The Cahaba Boys were a terrorist group based in this state, the home of (+) Bull Connor. In this state's "Bloody Sunday," protesters were blocked from crossing the Edmund Pettis Bridge. In addition to that march beginning in Selma, Robert Chambliss was convicted of (*) bombing the 16th Street Baptist Church in this state. The "Stand in the Schoolhouse Door" was performed by a governor of this state named George Wallace. For 10 points, name this state home to Rosa Parks, in which Martin Luther King, Jr., organized a bus boycott in Montgomery. ANSWER: Alabama 
10. Under the advice of Rene de Maupeou, this king took away the veto power of the Parlements. His marriage to the princess Marie led him to support Stanislaw Leszczynski (luh-SHIN-ski) as king of (+) Poland. Under this king, France lost its territory in Canada and India to Britain. He was in power during the declaration (*) "After me, the deluge," and he had a long-running affair with the Madame de Pompadour. For 10 points, name this French king, the last to reach the end of his life naturally before the French Revolution. ANSWER: Louis XV [prompt on Louis ] 
11. This country was awarded control of Jubaland in exchange for its contributions to World War I, and soon incorporated that province into its longer-term colony of (+) Somaliland. This country's imperial ambitions also led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (*) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
12. This man sparked a firestorm during World War I when he accused Samuel Lothrop and others of spying for the U.S. under the cover of fieldwork. This thinker's early field research included a trip to Baffin Island studying Inuit migration, as described in his monograph The Central Eskimo. This thinker posited a (+) patrilineal-to-matrilineal shift in Kwakiutl society and wrote The Mind of Primitive Man. After establishing the first (*) doctoral program of its kind at Columbia University, he taught Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict. For 10 points, name this "father of American anthropology." ANSWER: Franz Boas 
13. The Ludlow Amendment voiced the concerns of this movement. The Nye Committee fueled the anger of this movement by investigating several "merchants of death." Heavyweights in this movement included Bull Moose running mate and California senator Hiram Johnson, noted "lion" and Idaho senator William (+) Borah, and several members of the "Irreconcilables." Woodrow Wilson's re-election slogan pandered to people in this (*) movement, who later blocked the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles. For 10 points, name this movement opposed to U.S. participation in alliances or wars. ANSWER: American isolation ists [or America First movement; or American pacifist s; or American anti-war activists; or word forms] 
14. A document central to this policy noted that, “the greatest danger that can befall us is that we shall allow ourselves to become like those with whom we are coping.” An anonymous article in (+) Foreign Affairs magazine and the “Long Telegram” supported this strategy and were written by its formulator, George (*) Kennan. This policy was put into action with the Truman Doctrine. For 10 points, name this foreign policy strategy of the United States in the 1940s and early 50s that sought to stifle the expansion of the Soviet Union’s influence. ANSWER: Containment [prompt on Truman Doctrine until it is read] 
15. This politician turned down Dewey's first invitation to be his running mate but accepted it to run in (+) 1948. He led a namesake Commission to investigate the assassination of (*) JFK. This judge oversaw the court that decreed law officers must read criminal suspects their rights in the Miranda case. This man read the unanimous opinion in his court that ruled unconstitutional "separate but equal." For 10 points, name this Chief Justice during Brown v. Board of Education . ANSWER: Earl Warren 
16. After this event, several states passed laws requiring identification in order to buy ammonium nitrate. The ringleader of this (+) attack reportedly chose his target because an alternative had a florist's shop on the first floor. Terry Nichols collaborated on this attack, which commemorated incidents at (*) Ruby Ridge and Waco. For 10 points, name this attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in a state capital, masterminded by Timothy McVeigh. ANSWER: Oklahoma City bombing [or obvious equivalents] 
17. In The Literal Meaning of Genesis , this writer contradicted contemporaries who practiced astrology. This writer describes how to teach Scripture in On Christian Doctrine . He detailed in one work an instance where being in the company of sinners influenced him to (+) steal pears. This writer proposed in another work written shortly after the sack of Rome that that the community of believers was an entity separate from the (*) Earthly City. That work is City of God . This man detailed his youthful belief in Manichaeism and conversion to Christianity in Confessions . For 10 points, name this Christian theologian and Church Doctor, a Bishop of Hippo. ANSWER: Augustine of Hippo [or Saint Augustine ; or Blessed Augustine ; accept Saint Austin ; accept Saint Augoustinos ] 
18. A hero of this event was featured on the poster "above and beyond the call of duty," after manning a machine gun despite only being trained as a cook. This event, in which Dorie Miller became famous, was followed by an incident in which a crash-landed (+) pilot received aid from three locals on the island of Niihau. A fourteen-part message was unable to be transcribed before this event, during which over a thousand people died in the explosion of the (*) Arizona. For 10 points, name this event after which Franklin Roosevelt proclaimed that December 7, 1941 "will live in infamy." ANSWER: Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor 
