1. This man claimed that no one had ever used reason alone to work out natural law in his work The Reasonableness of Christianity . He refuted Robert Filmer's Patriarcha and stated that rebellions can be justified in his Second Treatise of Government . For 10 points, name this English philosopher who espoused his view of a tabula rasa in An Essay Concerning Human Understanding and whose philosophy is often contrasted with that of Thomas Hobbes. ANSWER: John Locke 
2. During this rule's reign, Saigo led a revolt of samurai warriors. This ruler won Sakhalin Island in a treaty that ended a war that began with an attack on the Russian fleet at Port Arthur. He signed the Charter Oath, seeking to Westernize his country. For 10 points, name this Japanese emperor who started his namesake Restoration in the late 19th century. ANSWER: Meiji Tenno [or Meiji Matsuhito] 
3. This man holds the record for most tie-breaking votes cast as President of the Senate. This author of the pamphlet "Thoughts on Government" opposed the Stamp Act in the Braintree Instructions. He appointed the "Midnight Judges" in the last days of his term as President. This man, who signed the Alien and Sedition Acts into law, helped negotiate the Treaty of Paris and was President when the XYZ Affair occurred. For 10 points, name this Federalist Party leader and second President. ANSWER: ohn J Adams [prompt on Adams ; do not accept "John Quincy Adams"] 
4. Pierre-Francois Palloy gave tours of where this event took place and sold models made from stones found there. Participants had been allowed in the Hôtel des Invalides by Charles de Sombreuil, but were hampered in this action by the marquis de Launay. Camille Desmoulins organized this event, which saw people carrying busts of the duke of Orléans and the recently dismissed Jacques Necker. For 10 points, name this action which took place July 14, 1789, now celebrated as a national holiday in France. ANSWER: Storming of the Bastille [or obvious equivalents] 
5. An early version of this diagram was called the telluric helix. Henry Moseley explained an apparent abnormality of placement on this diagram. The Law of Triads and the Law of Octaves were used to create this diagram, an early version of which used the Sanskrit word "eka," meaning "beyond," to represent items not yet discovered. Dmitri Mendeleev (men-duh-LAY-yev) is credited with inventing it. For 10 points, name this diagram which displays cobalt and nickel. ANSWER: the Periodic Table of Elements 
6. One ruler of this dynasty funded Zheng He's explorations and moved the capital to Beijing. The first ruler of this era came to power after the Red Turban Rebellion. That leader, the Hongwu Emperor, took power from the Mongul Yuan dynasty. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty that ruled from 1368 to 1644 and created the Forbidden City. ANSWER: Ming Dynasty 
7. Lucius Clay and Curtis LeMay coordinated an airlift to relieve a blockade in this city. Because this city was occupied, one country relocated the capital to Bonn. Checkpoint Charlie was a crossing point for a structure constructed here in 1961. Until 1989, this city was divided by a wall. For 10 points, name this city, the present-day capital of Germany. ANSWER: Berlin 
8. A women’s chorus fades into silence in the last movement of this work. A melody in one section of this piece was named “Thaxted” by its composer, and Cecil Spring-Rice later adapted that tune as the patriotic hymn “I Vow to Thee, My Country.” Movements of this work include “The Bringer of Jollity” and “The Bringer of War.” For 10 points, name this orchestral work by Gustav Holst about objects in the Solar System. ANSWER: The Planets 
9. A series of riots in this city were ended violently by Fiorenzo Bava Beccaris. Once ruled by Martino della Torre, the Battle of Desio marked the beginning of its control by the Visconti family. Also ruled by the Sforzas, it was at this city that Constantine issued a decree of toleration for Christians. For 10 points, name this capital of Lombardy. ANSWER: Milan [or Milano ] 
10. This leader effectively nationalized the oil company Yukos in part of his campaign to weaken his country's "oligarchs." Bloggers have attacked this man's cronyism by claiming he leads a "party of crooks and thieves." This former head of the FSB organized the bombing of Chechnya. He served as the power behind the throne during the presidency of Dmitri Medvedev. For 10 points, name this current president of Russia. ANSWER: Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin 
Quarter Two
1. This action was forced after one leader received advice from the German generals Alexander von Falkenhausen and Hans von Seeckt, resulting in the Fifth Encirclement campaign. One group that took part in this action was led by Zhu De, who led this action out the Jiangxi (JEE-ahng-SHEE) Soviet. Only 8,000 people arrived at this action’s final destination, Yan'an. For 10 points, name this 1934 to 1935 retreat by the Chinese Communist Party, which trekked 6,000 miles across China. ANSWER: Long March BONUS: One of the other leaders of the Red Army during the Long March was which first Premier of the People's Republic of China who served from 1949 until his death in 1976? ANSWER: Zhou Enlai [or Chou En-lai] 
2. A figure with nearly the same name as this figure was a clairevoyant who "carried a switch/To aid her work of sin" in a Whittier poem. She worked for the Irvine household in Carlisle. She survived a cannon shot that grazed her skirt during her duty swabbing and loading the cannons at the Battle of Monmouth. Born Mary Hays, this figure started out as a camp follower at Valley Forge and served water to heat stroke-afflicted soldiers who would call out her name. For 10 points, name this Revolutionary War heroine. ANSWER: Molly Pitcher [or Moll Pitcher during the first sentence; or Mary Hays until mentioned] BONUS: Another wartime heroine in a John Whittier poem is this figure from the Civil War, who waved the Union flag at Stonewall Jackson and said “Shoot, if you must this old gray head, but spare your country’s flag.” ANSWER: Barbara Fritchie [or Barbara Hauer ] 
3. All print editions of this religion's main scripture are exact 1,430 page replicas of the original 1852 print edition. That scripture is a book of hymns originally collected by Arjan, and any place that contains it is a gurdwara, this religion's place of worship. That book, the Adi Granth , was declared by Gobind Singh to be the last of this religion's gurus. For 10 points, name this Punjabi religion, founded by Guru Nanak, that combines Hindu and Muslim influences. ANSWER: Sikh ism BONUS: In 1699 Guru Gobind Singh founded the fellowship of Sikhs. It is known by what six-letter term that is not actually one of the five K's? ANSWER: Khalsa 
4. One quotation in this document notes that the title figures are “void of counsel.” This piece is built on an epigraph reading, “Their foot shall slide in due time,” which was taken from Deuteronomy 32:25. It asked listeners to “consider the condition you are in,” and was said to cause fainting in Enfield, Connecticut, where it first appeared. For ten points, name this piece which compares the listener to a spider held over a fire, a Great Awakening sermon delivered by Jonathan Edwards. ANSWER: “ Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God ” BONUS: Another figure important in the First Great Awakening was this travelling preacher, who was much admired by Ben Franklin. His powerful open-air sermons can be seen as what prompted the Great Awakening in the colonies. ANSWER: George Whitefield 
5. While visiting New York, this man may have been involved in the murder of White Hand leader Richard Lonergan. Big Jim Colosimo was killed on behalf of Johnny Torrio and this man by Frankie Yale. This man's crude comment to Frank Galluccio's sister led to his nickname, and he spent eleven years in jail for tax evasion. For 10 points, identify this Chicago gangster who was nicknamed "Scarface." ANSWER: Alphonse Capone BONUS: Capone likely ordered what hit on Bugs Moran's gang in February 1929, that involved men posing as police officers and machine-gunning seven rival gangsters? ANSWER: St. Valentine's Day Massacre 
6. Howard Andrew Knox created one of these things for use at Ellis Island. Robert Yerkes developed "Alpha" and Beta” varieties them which were administered to U.S. soldiers during World War I. Popular modern ones were designed by David Wechsler, and the first was made by Alfred Binet. For 10 points, name these tests historically used to classify people as "geniuses" and "morons." ANSWER: intelligence tests [or IQ tests] BONUS: Binet's IQ test was revised by a professor at what west coast university, which was named for the head of the Southern Pacific and Central Pacific railroads? ANSWER: Stanford University 
7. Benjamin Britten's Diversions is one of several special concertos for this instrument that were written for Paul Wittgenstein. A performance of Tchaikovsky's B-flat minor concerto for this instrument won fame for Van Cliburn. Debussy wrote two books of preludes for this instrument, as well as the Petite suite for this instrument, "four hands." For 10 points, name this instrument whose modern version has 88 keys. ANSWER: piano BONUS: The Sonatas and Interludes for "prepared piano," in which objects such as screws and bolts are placed on the instrument's strings, were written by what composer of 4'33" ? ANSWER: John Cage 
8. One commander in this war was killed at the siege of Fredrikshald. That commander in this war fought against Augustus the Strong after winning the early Battle of Narva. Ended by the Treaty of Nystad, this war's Battle of Poltava saw the defeat of a nation which lost its dominance in the Baltic region and was led by Charles XII. For 10 points, name this early eighteenth century war that saw Russia under Peter the Great win large concessions from Sweden. ANSWER: Great Northern War [or Second Northern War] BONUS: What current King of Sweden underwent the transition to an entirely ceremonial role in the government early in his reign? ANSWER: Carl XVI Gustaf [or Carl Gustaf ; or Carl Gustaf Folke Hubertus ] 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: EUROPEAN EXPLORERS QUESTION: Which European explorer… 1. Sailed the Pinta Nina , , and Santa Maria in 1492? ANSWER: Christopher Columbus [or Cristoforo Colombo ; or Cristobal Colon ] 2. Captained the first circumnavigation of the earth, although he was killed in the Philipines? ANSWER: Ferdinand Magellan [or Fernao de Magalhaes ; or Fernando de Magallanes ] 3. Circumnavigated the earth in the Golden Hind and fought the Spanish Armada? ANSWER: Francis Drake 4. Defeated the Aztec Empire? ANSWER: Hernan Cortez 5. Governed Portuguese India after sailing the first direct voyage from Europe to India? ANSWER: Vasco da Gama 6. Served as the first Governor of Puerto Rico and searched for the Fountain of Youth in Florida? ANSWER: Juan Ponce de Leon 7. Was a Portuguese captain who discovered Brazil in 1500? ANSWER: Pedro Alvares Cabral 8. Had his ship the Fram frozen in the Arctic Ocean to attempt to float to the North Pole? ANSWER: Fridtjof Nansen 
CATEGORY: EUROPEAN MONARCHS QUESTION: Which monarch... 1. Was known as the "Sun King" and was advised by Colbert? ANSWER: Louis XIV 2. was married to Queen Mary and given power by the Immortal Seven during the Glorious Revolution? ANSWER: William III of England [or William III of Orange] 3. Put down Pugachev's rebellion and was advised by Count Orlov? ANSWER: Catherine II [or Catherine the Great ] 4. Rejected Lew Sapieha's proposal to merge Russia with the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and whose death began the Time of Troubles? ANSWER: Boris Gudonov 5. Called the Estates General before being dethroned by the French Revolution? ANSWER: Louis XVI 6. Ruled during the Day of Massacres and whose mother was Marie d' Medici? ANSWER: Louis XIII 7. Allied with Francis II of Brittany in the Mad War and was known as "Father of the People"? ANSWER: Louis XII 8. was killed by Jacques Clement after becoming the first elected King of Poland and and Grand Duke of Lithuania following the Union of Lublin? ANSWER: Henry III of France 
CATEGORY: CHINESE DYNASTIES QUESTION: Which Chinese Dynasty... 1. Lends its name to the largest Chinese ethnic group and was ruled by Wudi? ANSWER: Han Dynasty 2. United the Warring States and was ruled by Shi Huangdi, who built the Terracotta Army? ANSWER: Qin Dynasty 3. Sent attempts to conquer Japan foiled by kamikaze, or 'divine winds,' and was ruled by men such as Kublai Khan? ANSWER: Yuan Dynasty [or Mongol Dynasty] 4. Was founded by the Hongwu Emperor and saw the exploration of Zheng He? ANSWER: Ming Dynasty 5. Fought the An Lushan Rebellion and saw the poetry of Li Po and Du Fu? ANSWER: Tang Dynasty 6. Wrote on objects known as Oracle Bones and was succeeded by the Zhou? ANSWER: Shang Dynasty 7. Is possibly mythical, was established by Yu the Great and is the first Chinese dynasty? ANSWER: Xia Dynasty [or Hsia Dynasty] 8. Fought a series of wars against the Goguryeo and built the Grand Canal? ANSWER: Sui Dynasty 
Quarter Four
1. This company's Silverlight technology competes with Adobe Flash, and has been criticized for perpetuating this company's practice of ignoring (+) open technological standards. In May 2011, it agreed to acquire Voice Over IP company Skype. This company was the defendant in (*) antitrust cases in the U.S. and E.U., centering on its software bundling practices. For 10 points, name this American software company which creates the best-selling operating system in the world, Windows. ANSWER: Microsoft Corporation 
2. This composer commemorated the Battle of Culloden with his oratorio Judas Maccabeus. A collection of pieces written by this composer includes a movement labeled "alla hornpipe." Another creation of this composer includes a movement titled "Rejoicing" that follows a (+) siciliano movement called "Peace." This composer wrote that suite to celebrate the signing of the Treaty of (*) Aix-la-Chapelle, and also wrote a piece for a river cruise of George I. For 10 points, name this German-born English composer of Music for the Royal Fireworks and Water Music. ANSWER: George Frideric Handel 
3. One of this author's late novels was titled after the last words of Stonewall Jackson. This recipient of the War Merit Cross wrote most of his novels after he was injured handing out chocolate to Italian soldiers. He described Spanish (+) bullfights in Death in the Afternoon and used World War I as the setting for his novel about the relationship between Catherine (*) Barkley and an ambulance driver, Frederic Henry, who fall in love while Henry is recuperating from a war injury. For 10 points, name this American author of The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms. ANSWER: Ernest Hemingway 
4. One novel by this man discusses the feeling of litost in the story of a student’s romance with Kristyna. Another novel by this man includes (+) Sabina, who is obsessed with the symbolism of a bowler hat, and the professor Franz, who dies on the Cambodian border. That novel features the story of (*) Tomas and Tereza. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being. ANSWER: Milan Kundera 
5. This work contains a story-within-a-story entitled The Impertinent Curiosity. One character in this work steals a barber’s basin he believes to be Mambrino’s helmet. That character is defeated by the (+) Knight of the White Moon and loves a woman from El Toboso. The title character is accompanied by an old nag named (*) Rocinante and his squire Sancho Panza, who informs him that windmills are not giants. For 10 points, name this Spanish novel about a knight from La Mancha, by Miguel de Cervantes. ANSWER: Don Quixote [or The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha ; or El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha ] 
6. One candidate in this election ran alongside Patrick Choate, and this year saw flat tax advocate Steve Forbes and Pat Buchanan seek the Republican nomination. The eventual winner of that nomination ran with former football player (+) Jack Kemp. This election was the first time the Green Party ran with Unsafe at Any Speed author Ralph Nader, and the second time (*) Ross Perot ran for the office. The winner of this election was an incumbent who later was impeached for perjury. For 10 points, name this election in which Bob Dole lost to Bill Clinton. ANSWER: United States Election of 1996 
7. Along with the Q document, this text is one of the sources in the two-source hypothesis. The man credited with being the author of this text founded the Church of Alexandria, though that man's body was stolen by (+) Venetians in 828. What is probably the original ending of this book, chapter 16, verse 8, does not describe the resurrected Jesus, and it is the only synoptic Gospel to not describe Jesus's (*) birth. This book is the oldest of the Gospels, though it appears second after Matthew. For 10 points, name this shortest Gospel. ANSWER: Gospel of Mark 
8. This team lost the longest game in NFL history to the Dolphins in double overtime. As quarterback for this team, Len Dawson threw for one touchdown in a 35-10 loss to the Green Bay Packers in (+) season with (*) this team. For 10 points, name this National Football League team whose 2012 roster includes Jamaal Charles and a quarterback who replaced Matt Cassel, Brady Quinn. ANSWER: Kansas City Chiefs [or Kansas City Chiefs] 
