1. This man was given lavish birthday parties by his disciple Leif Sverdrup during his latter life as chairman of the board of Remington Rand. He authorized Beate (bay-AH-tay) Gordon to insert provisions for social equality into the new constitution as overseer of the Allied occupation of Japan, years after saying "I shall return" when leaving the Philippines in 1941. For 10 points, name this general who was dismissed by Harry Truman in 1951 after leading U.N. forces in Korea. ANSWER: Douglas MacArthur 
2. At Southeastern Oklahoma State University, this man was a three time NAIA All-American. In 1986, the Detroit Pistons drafted him in the second round. He attracted attention for marrying Carmen Electra, kicking a photographer on the sideline, and publishing the autobiography Bad As I Wanna Be while winning titles with the Spurs and Bulls as a rebounding specialist. For 10 points, identify this basketball player, nicknamed "The Worm", who visited North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un in 2013. ANSWER: Dennis Keith Rodman [or the Worm until it is read] 
3. This man chronologically listed rulers from Nabonassar to Antoninus Pius in his Canon of Kings . This namesake of an open cluster in the tail of Scorpius collected his writings on astrology in his Tetrabiblos and mapped a world spanning from the Fortunate Islands to Serica in his Geographia . His best-known work contains a table of chords and posits a geocentric universe. For 10 points, name this author of the Almagest , an early Alexandrian astronomer. ANSWER: Claudius Ptolemy [or Claudius Ptolemaeus ] 
4. One ruler of this dynasty funded Zheng He's explorations and moved the capital to Beijing. The first ruler of this era came to power after the Red Turban Rebellion. That leader, the Hongwu Emperor, took power from the Mongul Yuan dynasty. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty that ruled from 1368 to 1644 and created the Forbidden City. ANSWER: Ming Dynasty 
5. Zablon Simintov is the last practicing Jew in this country. The Hazara are the only predominantly Shia group here. Islam spread here during the Saffarid dyasty ruled from Zaranj. A fundamentalist group influenced by the Deobandi movement took power in this country in 1996 and dynamited two large sculptures at Bamiyan. For 10 points, name this country whose large Buddhist monuments were destroyed by the Taliban in 2001. ANSWER: Afghanistan 
6. This movement gained an early success with the Maine Law. Howard Hyde Russell founded a league in support of this movement that was later led by Wayne Wheeler, who took advantage of anti-German sentiment during World War I. This movement was supported by the hatchet-wielding Carry Nation, a member of the WCTU. This movement's advocates, or "dries," clashed with the "wets." For 10 points, name this progressive movement that sought to prohibit alcohol. ANSWER: Temperance movement [or Prohibition of alcohol before it is read; or equivalents] 
7. Though not Wilson, this man put forth fourteen points to protect the rights of members of his religion. He called for a Direct Action Day, which became a day of violence and rioting in Calcutta. This man worked on the Lucknow Pact between the Indian National Congress and his group. For 10 points, name this leader of the Muslim league and founder of Pakistan. ANSWER: Muhammad Ali Jinnah 
8. Milovan Dilas was thought to be this man's successor until Dilas publicly denounced his country as totalitarian. This man's support of KKE forces in Greece angered Joseph Stalin, leading to a diplomatic split between his country and the Soviet Union. With Gamal Nasser and Jawaharlal Nehru, he began the meetings of countries wishing to be in neither the American nor the Soviet camp, the Non-Aligned Movement. For 10 points, name this leader of postwar Yugoslavia. ANSWER: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz ] 
9. This person banned all alcohol- and morphine- containing medicine ads from appearing in the journal The Revolution . Part of Garrison's Anti-Slavery Society, this person joined her movement with the African-American rights movement. With Elizabeth Cady Stanton, she co-founded a temperance movement. This person became most famous for going to jail after attempting to vote in the 1872 election. For 10 points, name this leader of the woman's suffrage movement who once appeared on the silver dollar. ANSWER: Susan Brownell Anthony 
10. Baseball player and OSS agent Moe Berg was dispatched to a lecture by this man in Zurich with orders to shoot him depending on the topic of the talk. This leader of the "Uranium Club" collaborated with Pascual Jordan and Max Born to develop the matrix formulation, which he used in a failed attempt to construct a nuclear bomb for Nazi Germany. For 10 points, name this physicist who noted that the position and momentum of a particle could not be simultaneously known, his "uncertainty principle." ANSWER: Werner Heisenberg 
Quarter Two
1. Hans Bethe won the Nobel Prize for studying this type of reaction in space. Martin Fleischmann and Stanley Pons claimed to have detected excess heat that could only be explained by this reaction in 1989. Edward Teller was an early advocate and researcher for weapons that used this reaction. For 10 points, name this process of atoms binding together to form heavier elements. ANSWER: nuclear fusion [or cold fusion ; do not accept "fission;" prompt on nuclear reaction , etc.] BONUS: Fleischmann and Pons ran current through what liquid with a higher than normal deuterium concentration, which was also the product of a German factory sabotaged by Norwegians during World War II? ANSWER: heavy water [or deuterium oxide ] 
2. A month before this time period ended, the Law of 22 Prairial helped to expedite the prosecution of the innocent. During this time period, the clergy were forced to abjure and swear belief to the Cult of the Supreme Being. This time period saw attacks on the Hebertists and followers of Georges Danton, who died during it. The Thermidorian Reaction ended this time period. For 10 points, name this period of the French Revolution when the Committee of Public Safety and Maximilien Robespierre had many opponents guillotined. ANSWER: Reign of Terror [or Terreur ] BONUS: This pioneering chemist executed during the Reign of Terror discovered oxygen and hydrogen as well as helping to construct the metric system. ANSWER: Antoine Lavoisier 
3. Some members at this meeting were called “blue lights” and some were members of the Essex Junto. Led by George Cabot and Harrison Grey Otis, it proposed requiring presidents to come from a different state than their predecessor. The end of the War of 1812 halted the proposal to have New England succeed from the Union and disgraced the Federalist Party into disbanding. For ten points, name this 1814 to 1815 meeting which took place in its namesake Connecticut city. ANSWER: Hartford Convention BONUS: Attendees at the Hartford Convention were angry at what act, passed by Jefferson, which forbade importing British goods? ANSWER: the Embargo Act of 1807 
4. Attorney General Richard Olney issued an injunction against the leaders of this event. Olney also supported the use of federal troops, which were sent in because this event supposedly interfered with the delivery of mail. No local militia was used to stop this event by Governor John Altgeld. Grover Cleveland worked to stop this event, one of whose leaders was head of the American Railway Union, Eugene V. Debs. For 10 points, name this 1894 strike centered in Chicago that was led against its namesake Palace Car Company. ANSWER: Pullman Strike BONUS: The defense of Eugene V. Debs for his role in the Pullman Strike was led by this lawyer, who also defended Leopold and Loeb. ANSWER: Clarence Seward Darrow 
5. Shortly before coming to power, this person struggled with the "Left Opposition" group led by Nikolai Bukharin and Lev Kamenev. Unlike his rival, this man supported the "socialism in one country" doctrine. He conducted the Great Purge and had Ramon Mercador assassinate Leon Trotsky. For 10 points, name this successor to Lenin as the leader of the Soviet Union. ANSWER: Joseph Stalin [or Iosif Vassarionovich Stalin ; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jugashvili ] BONUS: Stalin's economic policies led to the Holodomor famine in what modern-day country, whose city of Kiev was the center of the early Russian rulers? ANSWER: Ukraine [or Ukrayina ] 
6. One quotation in this document notes that the title figures are “void of counsel.” This piece is built on an epigraph reading, “Their foot shall slide in due time,” which was taken from Deuteronomy 32:25. It asked listeners to “consider the condition you are in,” and was said to cause fainting in Enfield, Connecticut, where it first appeared. For ten points, name this piece which compares the listener to a spider held over a fire, a Great Awakening sermon delivered by Jonathan Edwards. ANSWER: “ Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God ” BONUS: Another figure important in the First Great Awakening was this travelling preacher, who was much admired by Ben Franklin. His powerful open-air sermons can be seen as what prompted the Great Awakening in the colonies. ANSWER: George Whitefield 
7. This venue was the location of Pat Buchanan's "Culture War" speech at the 1992 Republican convention. The 1973 Battle of the Sexes tennis match between Bobby Riggs and Billie Jean King took place in this stadium. It was the home of Craig Biggio and Jeff Bagwell's rookie seasons and the Oilers. For 10 points, name this large enclosed sporting venue in Texas that used a namesake artificial turf. ANSWER: The Houston Astrodome [prompt on Houston ; do not accept "Reliant Stadium;" do not accept "Minute Maid Park"] BONUS: What infamous Houston-based energy trading company was the original namesake of the Houston Astros' new stadium after their move out of the Astrodome? ANSWER: Enron Corporation 
8. This academic figure was the subject of a controversial Gary Larson cartoon that called her a “tramp”. This author’s book In the Shadow of Man describes her early years at Gombe Stream Reserve after being chosen to study alongside Louis Leakey. For 10 points, name this conservationist, known as the world’s foremost expert on chimpanzees. ANSWER: Dame Jane Morris Goodall BONUS: Gombe Stream Reserve is located in this nation, which contains the Olduvai Gorge and most of Serengeti National Park. ANSWER: Tanzania 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: COLONIES QUESTION: Which colonizing nation controlled… 1. Angola, Mozambique, and the Indian city of Goa? ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic ; or Republica Portuguesa ] 2. The Chinese seaport of Port Arthur and Alaska? ANSWER: Russia n Federation [or Rossiya ; or Rossiyskaya Federatsiya ] 3. The South American colony of Suriname and Indonesia? ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Koninkrijk der Nederland en] 4. Libya, following a 1911-12 war with the Ottoman Empire? ANSWER: Italy [or Italian Republic ; or Repubblica Italia na] 5. Northern New Guinea, Cameroon, and Namibia? ANSWER: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland ] 6. The Philippines and Guam after 1898? ANSWER: United States of America [or America ; or US A] 7. New Caledonia, Senegal, and Algeria? ANSWER: France [or French Republic ; or Republique Francaise ] 8. Korea, Taiwan, and the Shandong Peninsula following World War I? ANSWER: Japan [or Nihon -koku; or Nippon -koku] 
CATEGORY: SOUTH AMERICA QUESTION: Name the South American country or city that... 1. Was once part of Gran Colombia along with Colombia, Ecuador, and Panama. ANSWER: Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela [or Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela ] 2. Was founded in 1535 by Pizarro as the City of Kings. ANSWER: Lima 3. Was freed from Spain by Bernardo O'Higgins, who became its first Supreme Director. ANSWER: Republic of Chile [or Republica de Chile_] 4. Was the capital of Pedro I's empire. ANSWER: Rio de Janiero 5. Fought the Chaco War with Bolivia. ANSWER: Republic of Paraguay [or Republica del Paraguay ] 6. Was ruled by Juan Manuel de Rosas and Bartolome Mitre. ANSWER: Argentina [or Argentine Republic ; or Republica Argentina ] 7. Had a great silver mine at its city of Potosi and was named for The Liberator. ANSWER: Plurinational State of Bolivia [or Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia ] 8. Lost with Bolivia when fighting Chile in the War of the Pacific. ANSWER: Republic of Peru [or Republica del Peru ] 
CATEGORY: VETERANS QUESTION: What person or thing related to veterans of American wars was the... 1. President who signed the law creating the Department of Veterans' Affairs in 1988? ANSWER: Ronald Wilson Reagan 2. Psychological disorder common in veterans, once known as shell shock? ANSWER: post-traumatic stress disorder [or PTSD ] 3. "Army" of vets who congregated in Washington, D.C. in 1932? ANSWER: Bonus Army [or Bonus Expeditionary Force; or Bonus March] 4. 1944 law giving returning servicemen compensation to attend college? ANSWER: G.I. Bill [or Servicemen's Readjustment Act] 5. War whose veterans complained of a namesake "syndrome," possibly caused by a nerve gas? ANSWER: the Persian Gulf War 6. Chinese-American who designed the Vietnam Veterans' Memorial? ANSWER: Maya Lin 7. Army Chief of Staff who lost influence after criticizing Iraqi troop levels and is now the Secretary of Veterans Affairs? ANSWER: Eric Shinseki 8. Celebrated World War II veteran who later starred in the TV series Whispering Smith and the film To Hell and Back? ANSWER: Audie Murphy 
Quarter Four
1. A reply to this man “On Behalf of the Fool” from Psalms 14:1 and Psalms 53:1 was given by the monk Gaunilo, who devised the “Lost Island” fallacy to refute him. This thinker was recalled to his country and exiled for a second time by Henry I. In his (+) Proslogion , this thinker asks the reader to conceive of that being than whom no greater being can be thought, and implies from there that such a being is (*) imperfect if it non-exists rather than exists. For 10 points, name this Archbishop of Canterbury who was canonized in part for devising the ontological argument for God’s existence. ANSWER: Saint Anselm of Canterbury 
2. This man was the butt of a popular joke in which he attempts to needle Zhou Enlai about coming from a family of rich merchants, only to be told "we are both traitors to our class." This politician arranged the execution of Lavrenty (+) Beria and appointed Nikolay Bulganin to replace Georgy Malenkov. At the 20th Congress of the Communist Party, he gave a (*) "secret speech" denouncing his predecessor's cult of personality and the excesses of the Great Purge of the 1930s. For 10 points, name this head of the Soviet Union who succeeded Joseph Stalin. ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev 
3. In one song, this man has “the gentle folk around him, They say he's grown so tarnal proud (+), he will not ride without them.” That song is (*) “Yankee Doodle.” This man's opponents supposedly played a song whose lyrics are about a ban on Christmas celebrations, “The World Turned Upside Down,” at one of his victories. For 10 points, name this first American president. ANSWER: George Washington 
4. Charlotte Dupuy sued this politician for the freedom of herself and her two sons. With John Allen, this man defended Aaron Burr in an 1806 trial for planning an invasion of Spanish territory. This owner of the Ashland estate lost the 1844 Presidential election to James (+) K. Polk. This Senator was accused of participating in a "Corrupt Bargain" with John (*) Quincy Adams during the 1824 election, and he was the main author of the Missouri Compromise and the Compromise of 1850. For 10 points, name this Kentucky Senator, who thus earned the nickname "the Great Compromiser." ANSWER: Henry Clay 
5. This nation’s anti-communist Patriotic People’s Movement was a continuation of its earlier far-right Lapua movement. In one conflict this country employed a sniper called the (+) White Death. This nation, which used motti encirclement tactics to win the Battle of Raate Road, was forced to lease Porkkala after losing the (*) Continuation War. During another conflict it was led by Carl Mannerheim. For 10 points, name this nation which fought the Winter War with the Soviet Union, and was the site of the signing of the Helsinki Accords. ANSWER: Finland 
6. Ryan DeGraffenreid blocked a constitutional amendment in this state revising gubernatorial term limits. The Cahaba Boys were a terrorist group based in this state, the home of (+) Bull Connor. In this state's "Bloody Sunday," protesters were blocked from crossing the Edmund Pettis Bridge. In addition to that march beginning in Selma, Robert Chambliss was convicted of (*) bombing the 16th Street Baptist Church in this state. The "Stand in the Schoolhouse Door" was performed by a governor of this state named George Wallace. For 10 points, name this state home to Rosa Parks, in which Martin Luther King, Jr., organized a bus boycott in Montgomery. ANSWER: Alabama 
7. Under the advice of Rene de Maupeou, this king took away the veto power of the Parlements. His marriage to the princess Marie led him to support Stanislaw Leszczynski (luh-SHIN-ski) as king of (+) Poland. Under this king, France lost its territory in Canada and India to Britain. He was in power during the declaration (*) "After me, the deluge," and he had a long-running affair with the Madame de Pompadour. For 10 points, name this French king, the last to reach the end of his life naturally before the French Revolution. ANSWER: Louis XV [prompt on Louis ] 
8. This country was awarded control of Jubaland in exchange for its contributions to World War I, and soon incorporated that province into its longer-term colony of (+) Somaliland. This country's imperial ambitions also led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (*) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
9. This man sparked a firestorm during World War I when he accused Samuel Lothrop and others of spying for the U.S. under the cover of fieldwork. This thinker's early field research included a trip to Baffin Island studying Inuit migration, as described in his monograph The Central Eskimo. This thinker posited a (+) patrilineal-to-matrilineal shift in Kwakiutl society and wrote The Mind of Primitive Man. After establishing the first (*) doctoral program of its kind at Columbia University, he taught Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict. For 10 points, name this "father of American anthropology." ANSWER: Franz Boas 
10. The Ludlow Amendment voiced the concerns of this movement. The Nye Committee fueled the anger of this movement by investigating several "merchants of death." Heavyweights in this movement included Bull Moose running mate and California senator Hiram Johnson, noted "lion" and Idaho senator William (+) Borah, and several members of the "Irreconcilables." Woodrow Wilson's re-election slogan pandered to people in this (*) movement, who later blocked the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles. For 10 points, name this movement opposed to U.S. participation in alliances or wars. ANSWER: American isolation ists [or America First movement; or American pacifist s; or American anti-war activists; or word forms] 
11. A document central to this policy noted that, “the greatest danger that can befall us is that we shall allow ourselves to become like those with whom we are coping.” An anonymous article in (+) Foreign Affairs magazine and the “Long Telegram” supported this strategy and were written by its formulator, George (*) Kennan. This policy was put into action with the Truman Doctrine. For 10 points, name this foreign policy strategy of the United States in the 1940s and early 50s that sought to stifle the expansion of the Soviet Union’s influence. ANSWER: Containment [prompt on Truman Doctrine until it is read] 
12. This politician turned down Dewey's first invitation to be his running mate but accepted it to run in (+) 1948. He led a namesake Commission to investigate the assassination of (*) JFK. This judge oversaw the court that decreed law officers must read criminal suspects their rights in the Miranda case. This man read the unanimous opinion in his court that ruled unconstitutional "separate but equal." For 10 points, name this Chief Justice during Brown v. Board of Education . ANSWER: Earl Warren 
13. After this event, several states passed laws requiring identification in order to buy ammonium nitrate. The ringleader of this (+) attack reportedly chose his target because an alternative had a florist's shop on the first floor. Terry Nichols collaborated on this attack, which commemorated incidents at (*) Ruby Ridge and Waco. For 10 points, name this attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in a state capital, masterminded by Timothy McVeigh. ANSWER: Oklahoma City bombing [or obvious equivalents] 
14. In The Literal Meaning of Genesis , this writer contradicted contemporaries who practiced astrology. This writer describes how to teach Scripture in On Christian Doctrine . He detailed in one work an instance where being in the company of sinners influenced him to (+) steal pears. This writer proposed in another work written shortly after the sack of Rome that that the community of believers was an entity separate from the (*) Earthly City. That work is City of God . This man detailed his youthful belief in Manichaeism and conversion to Christianity in Confessions . For 10 points, name this Christian theologian and Church Doctor, a Bishop of Hippo. ANSWER: Augustine of Hippo [or Saint Augustine ; or Blessed Augustine ; accept Saint Austin ; accept Saint Augoustinos ] 
15. A hero of this event was featured on the poster "above and beyond the call of duty," after manning a machine gun despite only being trained as a cook. This event, in which Dorie Miller became famous, was followed by an incident in which a crash-landed (+) pilot received aid from three locals on the island of Niihau. A fourteen-part message was unable to be transcribed before this event, during which over a thousand people died in the explosion of the (*) Arizona. For 10 points, name this event after which Franklin Roosevelt proclaimed that December 7, 1941 "will live in infamy." ANSWER: Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor 
16. The addition of copper hulls to ships in this navy provoked mutinies at Spithead and Nore. The "Glorious First of June" was a triumph for this navy. This navy won the Battle of Cape St. Vincent off the Portuguese coast and forced Tsar Paul to abandon the League of Armed Neutrality at the Battle of (+) Copenhagen. The quota system and impressment supplied sailors to this dominant maritime power in the (*) Napoleonic Wars. For 10 points, identify this navy that triumphed over the French at the Battle of Trafalgar, under the leadership of Horatio Nelson. ANSWER: the British Navy [or the English navy; or the navy of the nited ingdom; or the U K Royal Navy] 
17. In this election year, one nominee ran with former football player Jack Kemp. This election was the first time the Green Party ran with (+) advocate Ralph Nader, and the second time Ross Perot ran for the office. The winner of this election was was later (*) impeached for perjury related to an affair with Monica Lewinsky. For 10 points, name this election in which Bob Dole lost to Bill Clinton. ANSWER: United States Election of 1996 
18. This President appointed Louis A. Johnson as Secretary of Defense, and his administration authorized a strategic document written by Paul Nitze known as "NSC-68." The (+) Taft-Hartley Act was passed over this President's veto. This President had a sign on his desk stating that "the buck stops here!," and he used the slogan (*) "Fair Deal" for his domestic platform. His "doctrine" attempted to keep Communism out of Greece and Turkey. For 10 points, name this subject of an incorrect newspaper headline claiming that he lost the 1948 Presidential election to Thomas Dewey. ANSWER: Harry S. Truman 
19. This group long failed to eliminate such nuisances as the Victual Brothers. This group was the chief beneficiary of the (+) Peace of Stralsund, signed with Waldemar IV of Denmark. Its "kontore" were found in Bremen, Novgorod, and London, as well as at its administrative center, (*) Luebeck. For 10 points, identify this German-dominated association of trading towns which controlled Northern European shipping in the late medieval period. ANSWER: Hanseatic League [or Hansa ; or Hanse ] 
20. One attempt to end this period saw the deposition of Benedict XIII and Gregory XII in favor of Alexander V, but it failed when the former two refused to recognize the Council of Pisa. This period began when a group of cardinals elected Clement VII at (+) Anagni in opposition to Urban VI after the Avignon Papacy. The council that ended this period issued the decree Sacrosancta , which epitomized the conciliar movement, and excommunicated (*) Jan Hus. For 10 points, name this period ended by the Council of Constance with the election of Martin V that saw two or three rival popes in Western Europe. ANSWER: Western Schism [or Great Western Schism ; prompt on Great Schism before “Western”; do not accept “Great Schism of 1054”; do not accept “East-West Schism”] 
21. This country's imperial ambitions led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (+) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer (*) Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
22. It isn’t a Punic War, but this war’s final days featured the “Hannibal war” involving Hannibal Sehested. During it, the battle of Rocroi was won by a man known as "le Great Conde." This war’s peace terms gave Alsace back to France in a treaty negotiated by Cardinal (+) Mazarin. While fighting at the Lech River during the Battle of Rain, the Count of Tilly died in it, and an opposing ruler perished during the battle of (*) Lutzen. For 10 points, name this European war whose heroes included Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus, and which was ended by the Peace of Westphalia. ANSWER: Thirty Years War 
23. A politician from this state served as commissioner of Major League Baseball during Jackie Robinson's integration. Another politician from this state hosted a political talk show called Meet the Veep and was Vice-President Alben Barkley. Abolitionist Cassius (+) Clay was a native of this state, which was represented in the Senate by Richard Mentor Johnson and (*) Henry Clay. This state was represented in the Senate by Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Bunning, who was succeeded by Rand Paul. For 10 points, name this state, which was settled via trails blazed by Daniel Boone. ANSWER: Kentucky 
