1. A minor theater in this conflict saw victories at Junction Station and the Battle of Megiddo by Edmund Allenby. In another theater of this war, forces commanded by Ian Hamilton were defeated by Liman von Sanders. Its early stages featured the Race to the Sea and several battles near Ypres (EEP-ruh). This conflict saw the debut of the tank at the Battle of the Somme. For 10 points, name this "War to End All Wars," ended by the Treaty of Versailles. ANSWER: World War I [or First World War ; or Great War ] 
2. This river's namesake city is also situated near the Don River. The Kama and Oka are two of its tributaries. The city of Astrakhan is located near this river's delta, slightly north of the Caspian Sea. The Moscow Canal connects the Moskva River to this river. For 10 points, name this longest river in Europe, located in central Russia. ANSWER: Volga River 
3. A 2011 exhumation confirmed that this man's death in La Moneda was from suicide. He angered the United States by nationalizing the copper industry. Divisions among the Christian Democrats allowed his Popular Unity party to defeat Radomiro Tomic and Jorge Alessandri in the 1970 presidential election, but his government fell after a 1973 coup. For 10 points, name this Socialist president of Chile who was ousted by Augusto Pinochet. ANSWER: Salvador Allende Gossens 
4. He's not Gustave Courbet, but this artist's favorite models included Joanna Hiffernan and his mistress Maud Franklin. John Ruskin claimed that this artist was "flinging a pot of paint into the public's face" with his painting The Falling Rocket. This artist also depicted a older woman seated facing left in black. For 10 points, identify this artist of Nocturnes and Harmonies as well as of an Arrangement in Grey and Black, his mother. ANSWER: James McNeill Whistler 
5. As Secretary of State, this man negotiated a treaty with Emiliano Chamorro that gave the U.S. the right to build a Nicaraguan canal. This man resigned as Secretary of State after a second note was sent protesting the Lusitania sinking. For 10 points, name this man who lost two elections to William McKinley as leader of the Democrats and Populists. ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan 
6. In an agreement settled concurrently with this one, France received Tobago and Senegal. This treaty was signed at the hotel of David Hartley and guaranteed fishing rights off the coast of Newfoundland. This treaty also granted both sides access to the Mississippi River. For 10 points, name this treaty that ended the American Revolutionary War. ANSWER: Treaty of Paris of 1783 
7. This man signed the Eternal Peace with Sassanid Persia. This man's ministers included John of Cappadocia and Tribonian. A riot in favor of Hypatius called the Nika revolt was put down by his general Belisarius. Procopius wrote a Secret History of this husband of Theodora. For 10 points, name this Byzantine emperor who issued a namesake law code. ANSWER: Justinian I [Flavius Justinian us; or Justinian the Great; or Petrus Sabbatius ] 
8. Amendments to this legislation’s “bail out” provisions were passed in a 1982 reauthorization. Specific provisions of this legislation required pre-clearance in certain states and municipalities, and that provision was upheld in the case of South Carolina v. Katzenbach . Among other provisions, this law prevents literacy tests and directs the attorney general to challenge poll taxes in state and local elections. For 10 points, name this 1965 law that was written specifically to prevent the disenfranchisement of African-American voters. ANSWER: Voting Rights Act 
9. This event prompted the creation of GSG 9. Retaliation for this event led to the accidental killing of a Moroccan waiter in Lillehammer, Norway as part of Operation Wrath of God. The group carrying out this action took its name from the civil war in which the PLO was expelled from Jordan, Black September. For 10 points, name this event during which eleven Israeli athletes were killed during the 1972 Olympics in a namesake German city. ANSWER: Munich massacre [or descriptive answers such as "the murder of Israeli athletes at the Olympics " until "Israeli" is read] 
10. One militant group in this nation bombed Superferry 14; that group is Abu Sayyaf. One politician from this nation declared martial law after a series of protests called the First Quarter Storm, and ordered the assassination of his opponent Benigno Aquino, Jr. That leader was deposed in the People Power Revolution. This nation was the site of the Battles of Corregidor and Leyte Gulf. For 10 points, name this nation once ruled by Ferdinand Marcos from Manila. ANSWER: the Philippines 
Quarter Two
1. In 1904, this technology was demonstrated to an uninterested German navy by Christian Huelsmeyer. The U.S. Navy began installing the monostatic type of this technology after a successful demonstration on the USS New York . Amid rumors of a German death ray, Sir Robert Watson-Watt invented this technology, allowing the British to gather intelligence and win the Battle of Britain. For 10 points, name this technology that uses radio waves to detect aircraft. ANSWER: radar [or radio detection and ranging ] BONUS: Name the operation, an airborne and amphibious invasion of Great Britain, that Hitler postponed and then abandoned after his defeat at the Battle of Britain. ANSWER: Operation Sea Lion 
2. As minister of munitions, this man fought for the development of tanks. This man was appointed First Lord of the Admiralty by Herbert Asquith This man urged an attack on "the under-belly" at a meeting in Casablanca. This man gave a speech praising his nation's "finest hour," and he succeeded a man who believed he had achieved "peace in our time." This man formed a "grand alliance" with the USSR and USA. For 10 points, name this successor of Neville Chamberlain as prime minister of Great Britain during World War II. ANSWER: Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill BONUS: Along with Joseph Stalin and Franklin Roosevelt, Winston Churchill attended what conference held on the Crimean Peninsula, at which they discussed German occupation zones and Polish democracy? ANSWER: Yalta Conference 
3. This state is the home of bodies of water such as Lake Isom, which is a National Wildlife Refuge area, and Reelfoot Lake. The city of Murfreesboro is the geographic center of this state, and attractions like the National Civil Rights Museum, found in the former Lorraine Motel, and Graceland are found in this state's city of Memphis. For 10 points, name this state, with capital in Nashville. ANSWER: Tennessee BONUS: The highest point in Tennessee is Clingmans Dome, which is part of this subrange of the Appalachian Mountains. ANSWER: Great Smoky Mountains [or the Smokies ] 
4. A company paid a thirty-three-million-dollar settlement for allowing dangerous corrosion to take place at Ohio's Davis-Besse example of this kind of facility. At another one of these places, a malfunction in Unit 2 caused a shutdown on March 28, 1979. For 10 points, name these facilities, such as Pennsylvania's Three Mile Island, that produce energy through uranium fission chain reactions. ANSWER: nuclear power plant s [prompt on partial answer] BONUS: The only civilian death from a nuclear energy accident in U.S. history occurred in what state, also the location of Dorr's Rebellion and the main summer destination for wealthy Americans in the Gilded Age? ANSWER: Rhode Island 
5. One revolt in this city was an uprising by its wool carders known as the ciompi . One leader of this city known as "the Gouty" had a son killed in the Pazzi Conspiracy. The Bonfire of the Vanities was conducted in this city by followers of a Dominican monk later burned at the stake; that monk was Girolamo Savonarola. A family that ruled this city for a century started with Cosimo and included Lorenzo the Magnificent. For 10 points, identify this Italian city ruled by the Medici family. ANSWER: Florence [or Firenze ; or Florentia ] BONUS: This author's most famous work was dedicated to Lorenzo de Medici's grandson during this author's exile. Identify this political theorist and author of The Prince whose name is used as a synonym for "scheming." ANSWER: Niccolo Machiavelli 
6. This man was attacked by abolitionists for supporting the Fugitive Slave Law in his "Seventh of March" speech. This man argued against the New Hampshire legislature in Dartmouth College v. Woodward . This man concluded a speech in a debate against Robert Hayne by calling liberty and union "one and inseparable." As Secretary of State under John Tyler, this man negotiated a treaty ending the Aroostook War with Ashburton. For 10 points, name this Massachusetts Senator renowned for his speaking abilities. ANSWER: Daniel Webster BONUS: Daniel Webster opposed what economic plan devised by Henry Clay that called for a national bank, tariffs, and improved infrastructure? ANSWER: American System 
7. These people mixed soot, breast milk, and poisonous animal gallbladder liquid to create tattoos. People of this ethnicity included anti-Abbasid rebel Mir Jafar, the Peacock Angel-worshiping Yezidis, and the winner of the Battle of Hattin who founded the Ayyubid Dynasty, Saladin. Their autonomy is advocated by the PKK. For 10 points, name this ethnic group that lives in parts of Turkey and Iraq. ANSWER: Kurd s [or Kurdish ] BONUS: Kurds were able to gain some degree of autonomy in Nagorno-Karabakh, which has been disputed by Azerbaijan and what other former Soviet republic? ANSWER: Republic of Armenia [or Hayastan i Hanrapetut'yun] 
8. This man was attacked by abolitionists for supporting the Fugitive Slave Law in his "Seventh of March" speech. This man argued against the New Hampshire legislature in Dartmouth College v. Woodward . This man concluded a speech in a debate against Robert Hayne by calling liberty and union "one and inseparable." As Secretary of State under John Tyler, this man negotiated a treaty ending the Aroostook War with Ashburton. For 10 points, name this Massachusetts Senator renowned for his speaking abilities. ANSWER: Daniel Webster BONUS: Daniel Webster opposed what economic plan devised by Henry Clay that called for a national bank, tariffs, and improved infrastructure? ANSWER: American System 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: EUROPEAN MONARCHS QUESTION: Which monarch... 1. Was known as the "Sun King" and was advised by Colbert? ANSWER: Louis XIV 2. was married to Queen Mary and given power by the Immortal Seven during the Glorious Revolution? ANSWER: William III of England [or William III of Orange] 3. Put down Pugachev's rebellion and was advised by Count Orlov? ANSWER: Catherine II [or Catherine the Great ] 4. Rejected Lew Sapieha's proposal to merge Russia with the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and whose death began the Time of Troubles? ANSWER: Boris Godunov 5. Called the Estates General before being dethroned by the French Revolution? ANSWER: Louis XVI 6. Ruled during the Day of Massacres and was the son of Marie d' Medici? ANSWER: Louis XIII 7. Allied with Francis II of Brittany in the Mad War and was known as "Father of the People"? ANSWER: Louis XII 8. was killed by Jacques Clement after becoming the first elected King of Poland and and Grand Duke of Lithuania following the Union of Lublin? ANSWER: Henry III of France 
CATEGORY: ANDREW JACKSON QUESTION: In the life of Andrew Jackson, who or what was the... 1. Nickname given to the 1824 election that Jackson controversially lost to John Quincy Adams? ANSWER: " Corrupt Bargain " 2. Vice-President who resigned during the mullification crisis? ANSWER: John Caldwell Calhoun 3. War of 1812 battle which Jackson won shortly after the Treaty of Ghent was signed? ANSWER: Battle of New Orleans 4. Group of unofficial advisors to Jackson, named for their supplanting of the official department secretaries? ANSWER: Kitchen Cabinet 5. Financial institution that Jackson opposed reauthorizing in a confrontation with Nicholas Biddle? ANSWER: The Second Bank of the nited tates [prompt on U S Bank of the nited tates] U S 6. Plantation in Nashville owned by Jackson? ANSWER: The Hermitage 7. Was the case arising from a dispute over Cherokee sovereignty that led to the quip "now let him enforce it?" ANSWER: Worcester v. Georgia 8. Item which Jackson invited the public to dine from in the White House lobby to symbolize his administration's common-man appeal? ANSWER: a giant wheel of cheese 
CATEGORY: EUROPEAN EXPLORERS QUESTION: Which European explorer… 1. Sailed the Pinta Nina , , and Santa Maria in 1492? ANSWER: Christopher Columbus [or Cristoforo Colombo ; or Cristobal Colon ] 2. Captained the first circumnavigation of the earth, although he was killed in the Philipines? ANSWER: Ferdinand Magellan [or Fernao de Magalhaes ; or Fernando de Magallanes ] 3. Circumnavigated the earth in the Golden Hind and fought the Spanish Armada? ANSWER: Francis Drake 4. Sacked the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan after exploring Mexico? ANSWER: Hernan Cortez 5. Governed Portuguese India after sailing the first direct voyage from Europe to India? ANSWER: Vasco da Gama 6. Served as the first Governor of Puerto Rico and searched for the Fountain of Youth in Florida? ANSWER: Juan Ponce de Leon 7. Was a Portuguese captain who discovered Brazil in 1500? ANSWER: Pedro Alvares Cabral 8. Had his ship the Fram frozen in the Arctic Ocean to attempt to float to the North Pole? ANSWER: Fridtjof Nansen 
Quarter Four
1. Charlotte Dupuy sued this politician for the freedom of herself and her two sons. With John Allen, this man defended Aaron Burr in an 1806 trial for planning an invasion of Spanish territory. This owner of the Ashland estate lost the 1844 Presidential election to James (+) K. Polk. This Senator was accused of participating in a "Corrupt Bargain" with John (*) Quincy Adams during the 1824 election, and he was the main author of the Missouri Compromise and the Compromise of 1850. For 10 points, name this Kentucky Senator, who thus earned the nickname "the Great Compromiser." ANSWER: Henry Clay 
2. This nation’s anti-communist Patriotic People’s Movement was a continuation of its earlier far-right Lapua movement. In one conflict this country employed a sniper called the (+) White Death. This nation, which used motti encirclement tactics to win the Battle of Raate Road, was forced to lease Porkkala after losing the (*) Continuation War. During another conflict it was led by Carl Mannerheim. For 10 points, name this nation which fought the Winter War with the Soviet Union, and was the site of the signing of the Helsinki Accords. ANSWER: Finland 
3. Ryan DeGraffenreid blocked a constitutional amendment in this state revising gubernatorial term limits. The Cahaba Boys were a terrorist group based in this state, the home of (+) Bull Connor. In this state's "Bloody Sunday," protesters were blocked from crossing the Edmund Pettis Bridge. In addition to that march beginning in Selma, Robert Chambliss was convicted of (*) bombing the 16th Street Baptist Church in this state. The "Stand in the Schoolhouse Door" was performed by a governor of this state named George Wallace. For 10 points, name this state home to Rosa Parks, in which Martin Luther King, Jr., organized a bus boycott in Montgomery. ANSWER: Alabama 
4. Under the advice of Rene de Maupeou, this king took away the veto power of the Parlements. His marriage to the princess Marie led him to support Stanislaw Leszczynski (luh-SHIN-ski) as king of (+) Poland. Under this king, France lost its territory in Canada and India to Britain. He was in power during the declaration (*) "After me, the deluge," and he had a long-running affair with the Madame de Pompadour. For 10 points, name this French king, the last to reach the end of his life naturally before the French Revolution. ANSWER: Louis XV [prompt on Louis ] 
5. This country was awarded control of Jubaland in exchange for its contributions to World War I, and soon incorporated that province into its longer-term colony of (+) Somaliland. This country's imperial ambitions also led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (*) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
6. This man sparked a firestorm during World War I when he accused Samuel Lothrop and others of spying for the U.S. under the cover of fieldwork. This thinker's early field research included a trip to Baffin Island studying Inuit migration, as described in his monograph The Central Eskimo. This thinker posited a (+) patrilineal-to-matrilineal shift in Kwakiutl society and wrote The Mind of Primitive Man. After establishing the first (*) doctoral program of its kind at Columbia University, he taught Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict. For 10 points, name this "father of American anthropology." ANSWER: Franz Boas 
7. The Ludlow Amendment voiced the concerns of this movement. The Nye Committee fueled the anger of this movement by investigating several "merchants of death." Heavyweights in this movement included Bull Moose running mate and California senator Hiram Johnson, noted "lion" and Idaho senator William (+) Borah, and several members of the "Irreconcilables." Woodrow Wilson's re-election slogan pandered to people in this (*) movement, who later blocked the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles. For 10 points, name this movement opposed to U.S. participation in alliances or wars. ANSWER: American isolation ists [or America First movement; or American pacifist s; or American anti-war activists; or word forms] 
8. A document central to this policy noted that, “the greatest danger that can befall us is that we shall allow ourselves to become like those with whom we are coping.” An anonymous article in (+) Foreign Affairs magazine and the “Long Telegram” supported this strategy and were written by its formulator, George (*) Kennan. This policy was put into action with the Truman Doctrine. For 10 points, name this foreign policy strategy of the United States in the 1940s and early 50s that sought to stifle the expansion of the Soviet Union’s influence. ANSWER: Containment [prompt on Truman Doctrine until it is read] 
9. This politician turned down Dewey's first invitation to be his running mate but accepted it to run in (+) 1948. He led a namesake Commission to investigate the assassination of (*) JFK. This judge oversaw the court that decreed law officers must read criminal suspects their rights in the Miranda case. This man read the unanimous opinion in his court that ruled unconstitutional "separate but equal." For 10 points, name this Chief Justice during Brown v. Board of Education . ANSWER: Earl Warren 
10. After this event, several states passed laws requiring identification in order to buy ammonium nitrate. The ringleader of this (+) attack reportedly chose his target because an alternative had a florist's shop on the first floor. Terry Nichols collaborated on this attack, which commemorated incidents at (*) Ruby Ridge and Waco. For 10 points, name this attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in a state capital, masterminded by Timothy McVeigh. ANSWER: Oklahoma City bombing [or obvious equivalents] 
11. In The Literal Meaning of Genesis , this writer contradicted contemporaries who practiced astrology. This writer describes how to teach Scripture in On Christian Doctrine . He detailed in one work an instance where being in the company of sinners influenced him to (+) steal pears. This writer proposed in another work written shortly after the sack of Rome that that the community of believers was an entity separate from the (*) Earthly City. That work is City of God . This man detailed his youthful belief in Manichaeism and conversion to Christianity in Confessions . For 10 points, name this Christian theologian and Church Doctor, a Bishop of Hippo. ANSWER: Augustine of Hippo [or Saint Augustine ; or Blessed Augustine ; accept Saint Austin ; accept Saint Augoustinos ] 
12. A hero of this event was featured on the poster "above and beyond the call of duty," after manning a machine gun despite only being trained as a cook. This event, in which Dorie Miller became famous, was followed by an incident in which a crash-landed (+) pilot received aid from three locals on the island of Niihau. A fourteen-part message was unable to be transcribed before this event, during which over a thousand people died in the explosion of the (*) Arizona. For 10 points, name this event after which Franklin Roosevelt proclaimed that December 7, 1941 "will live in infamy." ANSWER: Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor 
13. The addition of copper hulls to ships in this navy provoked mutinies at Spithead and Nore. The "Glorious First of June" was a triumph for this navy. This navy won the Battle of Cape St. Vincent off the Portuguese coast and forced Tsar Paul to abandon the League of Armed Neutrality at the Battle of (+) Copenhagen. The quota system and impressment supplied sailors to this dominant maritime power in the (*) Napoleonic Wars. For 10 points, identify this navy that triumphed over the French at the Battle of Trafalgar, under the leadership of Horatio Nelson. ANSWER: the British Navy [or the English navy; or the navy of the nited ingdom; or the U K Royal Navy] 
14. In this election year, one nominee ran with former football player Jack Kemp. This election was the first time the Green Party ran with (+) advocate Ralph Nader, and the second time Ross Perot ran for the office. The winner of this election was was later (*) impeached for perjury related to an affair with Monica Lewinsky. For 10 points, name this election in which Bob Dole lost to Bill Clinton. ANSWER: United States Election of 1996 
15. This President appointed Louis A. Johnson as Secretary of Defense, and his administration authorized a strategic document written by Paul Nitze known as "NSC-68." The (+) Taft-Hartley Act was passed over this President's veto. This President had a sign on his desk stating that "the buck stops here!," and he used the slogan (*) "Fair Deal" for his domestic platform. His "doctrine" attempted to keep Communism out of Greece and Turkey. For 10 points, name this subject of an incorrect newspaper headline claiming that he lost the 1948 Presidential election to Thomas Dewey. ANSWER: Harry S. Truman 
16. This group long failed to eliminate such nuisances as the Victual Brothers. This group was the chief beneficiary of the (+) Peace of Stralsund, signed with Waldemar IV of Denmark. Its "kontore" were found in Bremen, Novgorod, and London, as well as at its administrative center, (*) Luebeck. For 10 points, identify this German-dominated association of trading towns which controlled Northern European shipping in the late medieval period. ANSWER: Hanseatic League [or Hansa ; or Hanse ] 
17. One attempt to end this period saw the deposition of Benedict XIII and Gregory XII in favor of Alexander V, but it failed when the former two refused to recognize the Council of Pisa. This period began when a group of cardinals elected Clement VII at (+) Anagni in opposition to Urban VI after the Avignon Papacy. The council that ended this period issued the decree Sacrosancta , which epitomized the conciliar movement, and excommunicated (*) Jan Hus. For 10 points, name this period ended by the Council of Constance with the election of Martin V that saw two or three rival popes in Western Europe. ANSWER: Western Schism [or Great Western Schism ; prompt on Great Schism before “Western”; do not accept “Great Schism of 1054”; do not accept “East-West Schism”] 
18. This country's imperial ambitions led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (+) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer (*) Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
19. It isn’t a Punic War, but this war’s final days featured the “Hannibal war” involving Hannibal Sehested. During it, the battle of Rocroi was won by a man known as "le Great Conde." This war’s peace terms gave Alsace back to France in a treaty negotiated by Cardinal (+) Mazarin. While fighting at the Lech River during the Battle of Rain, the Count of Tilly died in it, and an opposing ruler perished during the battle of (*) Lutzen. For 10 points, name this European war whose heroes included Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus, and which was ended by the Peace of Westphalia. ANSWER: Thirty Years War 
20. A politician from this state served as commissioner of Major League Baseball during Jackie Robinson's integration. Another politician from this state hosted a political talk show called Meet the Veep and was Vice-President Alben Barkley. Abolitionist Cassius (+) Clay was a native of this state, which was represented in the Senate by Richard Mentor Johnson and (*) Henry Clay. This state was represented in the Senate by Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Bunning, who was succeeded by Rand Paul. For 10 points, name this state, which was settled via trails blazed by Daniel Boone. ANSWER: Kentucky 
21. The "New Covenant" was proposed as an alternative to this program. Only two of the (+) ten proposed bills in this program were signed into law, largely because Bob Dole could not push them through the Senate. The namesake (*) document outlining this program was written mostly by Dick Armey and signed by every Republican challenger for the House of Representatives. For 10 points, name this proposed legislative program credited for the large Republican gains in the 1994 Congressional elections. ANSWER: Contract with America 
22. Charles VI of France sent some equipment for playing this sport to Henry V in both real life and the Shakespeare play. France's Louis X was the first recorded builder of indoor (+) courts for playing this sport; one such court was the location of a meeting of the (*) Third Estate which pledged not to dissolve the National Assembly until a constitution was written. For 10 points, name this sport whose later innovations included the introduction of a net over which players hit balls with rackets. ANSWER: tennis 
23. Kitchener refused to let this leader serve in France despite his qualifications as a pilot that he used to form "The King's Flight." This leader's wife had an affair with the German Ambassador Joachim von (+) Ribbentrop, leading to FBI suspicions that this ruler was a Nazi sympathizer, for which he was sent to the Bahamas. The Church of England and prime minister Stanley Baldwin frowned on this ruler's affair with a (*) divorced American socialite named Wallis Simpson, but he could not rule without the "support of the woman" he loved. For 10 points, name this British monarch who became the only one to abdicate the throne in 1936. ANSWER: Edward VIII of England [or Edward Albert Christian George Andrew Patrick David ; prompt on Edward ] 
24. The nephew of this structure's designated occupant, Hemiunu, was in charge of its construction, which was not carried out by (+) slaves of the second leader of the Fourth Dynasty. This structure was constructed for (*) Khufu, or Cheops, as a tomb. For 10 points, name the oldest and only extant member of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, located near the Nile River in Egypt. ANSWER: Great Pyramid of Giza [or Pyramid of Giza or Pyramid of Cheops or Pyramid of Khufu ] 
25. The death of this group's member Fred Hampton led to a "Declaration of War" by the Weather Underground. They partnered with St. Augustine's Church to begin their "Free (+) Breakfast for Children" program. This group included guarantees for an education "that exposes the true nature of this decadent American society" as part of its Ten-Point Platform. This group's honorary prime minister was (*) Stokely Carmichael, and an early leader was Eldridge Cleaver. For 10 points, name this militant black power group started in 1966 in Oakland by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale. ANSWER: Black Panther s [or Black Panther Party for Self-Defense] 
26. Richard Feynman claimed that years of revisions in this value proceeded too slowly due to researcher bias in favor of its first measurement. Gerald Holton accused the scientist who measured this value of (+) fraudulently excluding data. The experiment that determined this quantity used a setup involving parallel plates and an atomizer. After using the terminal velocity to find mass, this quantity was calculated by balancing the (*) electric and gravitational fields. For 10 points, name this quantity found by the Millikan oil-drop experiment to be 1.6 times ten to the negative nineteen coulombs. ANSWER: elementary charge [or charge of an electron ] 
27. Over one hundred soldiers escaped from this state's Libby Prison during the Civil War. This was the state where J.E.B. Stuart died at the Battle of Yellow Tavern. Ulysses S. Grant deeply regretted the high casualties he suffered attacking fortified Confederate positions at (+) Cold Harbor here. The Overland and Wilderness Campaigns were fought in this state, as was the siege of (*) Petersburg and the Battle of Chancellorsville. For 10 points, name this site of both Battles of Bull Run, as well as the surrender at Appomattox and the Confederate capital of Richmond. ANSWER: Commonwealth of Virginia 
28. The 37th clause of this document concerned the nature of inheritance involving a "fee-farm." This document also discussed the removal of fish-weirs and put forth restriction on the levying of (+) scutage. This document also created a committee of Lords, which was in line with this document's general trends of limiting the power of the (*) monarchy. This document also codified the right of habeas corpus and was signed at Runnymede. For 10 points, identify this 1215 document signed by King John of England. ANSWER: Magna Carta 
