1. This man’s namesake organization broadcast the radio show Hour of Decision ; that organization is now led by his son Franklin. George W. Bush’s story of how this man converted him to Christianity has been discredited. He has been an informal advisor to U.S. Presidents since Eisenhower. For 10 points, name this preacher known for his televised “crusades” in the 1950s. ANSWER: William Franklin Graham , Jr. [or Billy Graham ] 
2. This place's restoration was advocated by W.A.R. Goodwin and underwritten by John D. Rockefeller, Jr., whose wife Abby is the namesake of this place's folk art museum. For an hour and a half each day, part of its Historic Area is transformed into "Revolutionary City," where actors portray real-life patriots. For 10 points, name this "living history museum" that simulates life in eighteenth-century Virginia. ANSWER: Colonial Williamsburg 
3. A series of riots in this city were ended violently by Fiorenzo Bava Beccaris. Once ruled by Martino della Torre, the Battle of Desio marked the beginning of its control by the Visconti family. Also ruled by the Sforzas, it was at this city that Constantine issued a decree of toleration for Christians. For 10 points, name this capital of Lombardy. ANSWER: Milan [or Milano ] 
4. The "Authentic Six" canon is followed by this sect. While praying, members of this sect cross their arms. This sect follows schools of law such as the Maliki, Hanbali, and Shafi'i. Its followers included Yazid I, who killed Hussein at the Battle of Karbala. This sect endorses the Rashidun, or Rightly Guided Caliphs, beginning with Abu Bakr. For 10 points, name this sect of Islam popular in Africa, eastern Asia, and Saudi Arabia, which is more widely-followed than Shia. ANSWER: Sunni Islam [prompt on Islam ] 
5. An argument over this activity caused the Spanish to destroy the English fleet led by John Hawkins at Vera Cruz. The Zong Massacre and William Wilberforce helped lead Britain to abolish this practice in 1808. One part of this activity involved the Middle Passage. For 10 points, name this trade of human beings across the Atlantic for goods such as sugar. ANSWER: slave trade 
6. This ruler was allegedly succeeded by Smenkhkare. He established a capital city at Amarna. This man was married to Nefertiti. His son Tutankhamun reversed many of his domestic policies, which began when this man changed his name from Amenhotep IV. For 10 points, name this Egyptian pharaoh noted for introducing monotheistic worship centered on the sun. ANSWER: Akhenaten [or Echnaton ; or Amenophis IV ; or Amenhotep IV until mentioned; prompt on Amenhotep ; prompt on Amenophis ] 
7. A player of this instrument worked on the Actions album with classical composer Krzysztof Penderecki. This instrument's early bebop players included Fats Navarro and Clifford Brown. This instrument played by Don Cherry was also performed by the lead on the albums Birth of the Cool and Kind of Blue. For 10 points, name this jazz instrument played by Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, and Louis Armstrong. ANSWER: jazz trumpet 
8. Percivall Pott demonstrated the increased risk of scrotal cancer in people with this occupation. These people used brine to toughen the skin of their knees and elbows for avoiding scrapes while climbing. In 1875, Parliament decisively outlawed the use of minors in, for 10 points, what characteristically unpleasant Industrial Revolution occupation, which cleaned flues? ANSWER: chimney sweep s 
9. The leader of one side in this battle agreed to a request made by Cardinal Talleyrand to hold his troops back on a Sunday. That leader, Jean le Bon, followed the advice of William Douglas to fight on foot, and was captured in this battle by forces under Edward, the Black Prince. For 10 points, name this 1356 victory for the English in the Hundred Years' War. ANSWER: Battle of Poitiers (pwah-tee-AY) 
10. The Nora Stone is the earliest known example of writing in this language. The Greeks adopted this language's words for the stylus and tablet as well as this language's writing system. A variation of this language, Punic, was spoken in Carthage. For 10 points, name this language spoken by inhabitants of Tyre, the first to use a phonetic alphabet. ANSWER: Phoenician language 
Quarter Two
1. The most common of this type of device in use today was first devised by Nikolaus Otto. In that type of this device, intake, compression, power and exhaust strokes are executed by a piston. Another type of this device that also uses four strokes was developed by Rudolph Diesel. For 10 points, identify this device in which an oxidizer and fuel are combusted for power and which are the primary enabler of transportation. ANSWER: internal-combustion engine [or four-stroke engine ] BONUS: The Otto cycle, which describes the function of the Otto engine, contains a pair of this type of process in which no heat is transferred. ANSWER: adiabatic process 
2. A girl in this novel is nicknamed "The Poor Fool" after a famine leaves her mentally handicapped. The main family in this novel moves up from having to scavenge jewels and food from rich men to their patriarch buying a concubine nicknamed Lotus. This novel about O-Lan and Wang Lung was written by the daughter of American missionaries in China. For 10 points, name this novel by Pearl S. Buck. ANSWER: The Good Earth BONUS: What Chinese-born author moved to America and wrote The Woman Warrior? ANSWER: Maxine Hong Kingston 
3. This man led a gathering of over five million people at Luneta for World Youth Day in the Philippines, and he made consequential visits to Haiti and Argentina shortly before the dictatorships in those countries fell. A member of the Grey Wolves, Mehmet Ali Agca, failed to kill this man, who took Opus Dei under his own jurisdiction. For 10 points, name this Polish Pope from 1978 to 2005. ANSWER: John Paul II [or Karol Jozef Wojtyla ; prompt on John Paul ; do not accept or prompt on "John" or "Paul"] BONUS: In 1986, John Paul II condemned what movement in the Latin American Church to lend Catholic support to left-wing revolutionary movements? ANSWER: liberation theology 
4. In one work by this man, Agilulf serves an army but is just a voice inside empty armor. This author of The Nonexistent Knight wrote a novel which includes a portion of the Polish novel Outside the Town of Malbork. In that novel, the second person narrator romances Ludmilla and searches for the rest of the title book after reading the first chapter. For 10 points, name this Italian author of If on a winter’s night a traveler. ANSWER: Italo Calvino BONUS: Umberto Eco, another Italian novelist, wrote what work that follows William of Baskerville’s investigation of various murders in a monastery in 1327? ANSWER: The Name of the Rose [or Il nome della rosa ] 
5. During this ruler's reign, patriotism increased after the imprisonment of a group of junior officers during the May 15th Incident. The February 26th Incident was opposed by this ruler, who later delivered the Jewel Voice Broadcast and was forced to renounce the claim his position had to being a divinity. His broadcast of surrender occurred after the Enola Gay dropped Little Boy over the city of Hiroshima. For 10 points, name this emperor of Japan during World War II. ANSWER: Michinomiya Hirohito [or Showa ] BONUS: Name the emperor of Japan who came to power in 1989 after the death of his father Hirohito. ANSWER: Tsugu Akihito [or Heisei ] 
6. At this event, Ansel Bascom gave a speech about a recently passed property bill. One organizer of this event read Martha Wright’s article “Hints for Wives.” This event adopted twelve resolutions, the ninth of which asked for the “sacred right to the elective franchise.” It produced a document that borrowed the words of the Declaration of Independence called the Declaration of Sentiments. For 10 points, name this 1848 meeting in New York led by Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton in support of women’s rights. ANSWER: Seneca Falls Convention BONUS: What editor of The Liberator sat with Mott and Stanton in the women's section at the first World's Anti-Slavery Convention in protest of a rule prohibiting women to speak? ANSWER: William Lloyd Garrison 
7. This case was revisited in 1989's Webster decision. This Supreme Court case, like its companion case Doe v. Bolton, included a dissent by Byron White and William Rehnquist, and a concurrence by Chief Justice Warren Burger. This case's decision, which was based on the right to privacy, was amended in Planned Parenthood v. Casey . For 10 points, name this 1973 Supreme Court case that declared the unconstitutionality of excessive state regulation of abortion. ANSWER: Roe v. Wade [or Jane Roe , et al. v. Henry Wade, District Attorney of Dallas County ] BONUS: The Burger Court also ruled on this 1976 case that reinstated the death penalty after it had been ruled cruel and unusual in Furman v. Georgia . ANSWER: Troy Leon Gregg v. State of Georgia 
8. This country's series of construction projects known as the Delta Works started after it was flooded by the North Sea in 1953. This nation's territories include Aruba and a portion of Saint Martin, and its cities include one often painted by Jan Vermeer, Delft, and the home of the International Court of Justice, the Hague. For 10 points, name this European nation, with capital at Amsterdam. ANSWER: Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Koninkrijk der Nederland en] BONUS: This city was heavily destroyed when it was bombed by Nazi German forces. Name this city, the second most populated of the Netherlands. ANSWER: Rotterdam 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: LOCATIONS OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION QUESTION: During the French Revolution, which... 1. Prison did the Parisian militia storm on July 14, 1789? ANSWER: Bastille 2. Royal palace did women angry about bread prices march on in early October 1789? ANSWER: Palace of Versailles [or Chateau de Versailles ] 3. Kind of sporting venue was the site of a namesake "oath" to write a constitution? ANSWER: tennis court [or Tennis Court Oath ] 4. Southern city gave its name to a popular rallying song that later became the French national anthem? ANSWER: Marseilles 5. Bathroom fixture was Jean-Paul Marat sitting in when Charlotte Corday murdered him? ANSWER: bath tub 6. Parisian palace was the royal family exiled to in 1789, three years before a massacre of the Swiss Guard there? ANSWER: Tuileries Palace 7. City did the royal family reach in June 1791 before being caught in their attempt to escape France? ANSWER: Varennes 8. Western department suffered a namesake 1793 peasant riot against the Revolutionary government? ANSWER: Vendee 
CATEGORY: TWENTIETH CENTURY MEXICO QUESTION: In twentieth-century Mexico, who or what was the... 1. Russian revolutionary who was killed with an ice axe in Mexico City in 1940? ANSWER: Leon Trotsky [or Lev Davidovich Bronshtein ] 2. Muralist, known for Aztec themes and paintings such as Detroit Industry? ANSWER: Diego Rivera [or Diego Maria de la Concepcion Juan Nepomuceno Estanislao de la Rivera y Barrientos Acosta y Rodriguez] 3. Painter known for her self-portraits, such as a double portrait and one with a monkey? ANSWER: Frida Kahlo de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderon] 4. Bandit rebel pursued by John Pershing? ANSWER: Pancho Villa [or Francisco Villa , or Jose Doroteo Arango Arambula] 5. Dominant political party in Mexico for most of the 20th century? ANSWER: PRI [or Partido Revolucionario Institucional ; or Institutional Revolutionary Party ] 6. President of Mexico elected in 2000, the first from the PAN? ANSWER: Vicente Fox Quesada 7. Commander of the Liberation Army of the South and namesake of a contemporary insurgency? ANSWER: Emiliano Zapata Salazar 8. State-owned petroleum company, founded in 1938? ANSWER: Pemex [or Petroleos Mexicanos ] 
CATEGORY: TREATIES QUESTION: What place was... 1. The city naming a "pact" between Communist countries that opposed NATO? ANSWER: Warsaw , Poland [or Warsaw Pact] 2. The set of four agreements establishing wartime rules for prisoners and civilians? ANSWER: Geneva Conventions 3. The city where World War II and the American Revolution ended with peace treaties? ANSWER: Paris , France 4. Guaranteed independence from Italy in the 1929 Lateran Treaty? ANSWER: Vatican City 5. A country divided into four Allied-controlled zones until a 1955 reunification treaty? ANSWER: Republic of Austria 6. Where a treaty creating the European Union was signed in February 1992? ANSWER: Maastricht Treaty 7. The country that ceased to exist after the 1993 Velvet Divorce? ANSWER: Czechoslovakia [do not accept or prompt on "Czech Republic" or "Slovakia"] 8. The city that names a treaty limiting ship tonnage after World War I? ANSWER: Washington , D.C. 
Quarter Four
1. One novel by this man discusses the feeling of litost in the story of a student’s romance with Kristyna. Another novel by this man includes (+) Sabina, who is obsessed with the symbolism of a bowler hat, and the professor Franz, who dies on the Cambodian border. That novel features the story of (*) Tomas and Tereza. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being. ANSWER: Milan Kundera 
2. This work contains a story-within-a-story entitled The Impertinent Curiosity. One character in this work steals a barber’s basin he believes to be Mambrino’s helmet. That character is defeated by the (+) Knight of the White Moon and loves a woman from El Toboso. The title character is accompanied by an old nag named (*) Rocinante and his squire Sancho Panza, who informs him that windmills are not giants. For 10 points, name this Spanish novel about a knight from La Mancha, by Miguel de Cervantes. ANSWER: Don Quixote [or The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha ; or El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha ] 
3. One candidate in this election ran alongside Patrick Choate, and this year saw flat tax advocate Steve Forbes and Pat Buchanan seek the Republican nomination. The eventual winner of that nomination ran with former football player (+) Jack Kemp. This election was the first time the Green Party ran with Unsafe at Any Speed author Ralph Nader, and the second time (*) Ross Perot ran for the office. The winner of this election was an incumbent who later was impeached for perjury. For 10 points, name this election in which Bob Dole lost to Bill Clinton. ANSWER: United States Election of 1996 
4. Along with the Q document, this text is one of the sources in the two-source hypothesis. The man credited with being the author of this text founded the Church of Alexandria, though that man's body was stolen by (+) Venetians in 828. What is probably the original ending of this book, chapter 16, verse 8, does not describe the resurrected Jesus, and it is the only synoptic Gospel to not describe Jesus's (*) birth. This book is the oldest of the Gospels, though it appears second after Matthew. For 10 points, name this shortest Gospel. ANSWER: Gospel of Mark 
5. This team lost the longest game in NFL history to the Dolphins in double overtime. As quarterback for this team, Len Dawson threw for one touchdown in a 35-10 loss to the Green Bay Packers in (+) season with (*) this team. For 10 points, name this National Football League team whose 2012 roster includes Jamaal Charles and a quarterback who replaced Matt Cassel, Brady Quinn. ANSWER: Kansas City Chiefs [or Kansas City Chiefs] 
6. During one of these events, Robert Moses's high-handedness caused their international governing bureau to withhold official sanction. The Westinghouse Company buried time capsules to be opened in 6939 during two of these events. The animatronic "It's a Small World" (+) ride was first introduced at one of these events, and an earlier one displayed fluorescent lights and a diorama of "the (*) World of Tomorrow" in the Trylon. Two of these events were held in Flushing Meadows in 1939 and 1964. For 10 points, name these international expositions. ANSWER: New York World's Fair s 
7. A reply to this man “On Behalf of the Fool” from Psalms 14:1 and Psalms 53:1 was given by the monk Gaunilo, who devised the “Lost Island” fallacy to refute him. This thinker was recalled to his country and exiled for a second time by Henry I. In his (+) Proslogion , this thinker asks the reader to conceive of that being than whom no greater being can be thought, and implies from there that such a being is (*) imperfect if it non-exists rather than exists. For 10 points, name this Archbishop of Canterbury who was canonized in part for devising the ontological argument for God’s existence. ANSWER: Saint Anselm of Canterbury 
8. This man was the butt of a popular joke in which he attempts to needle Zhou Enlai about coming from a family of rich merchants, only to be told "we are both traitors to our class." This politician arranged the execution of Lavrenty (+) Beria and appointed Nikolay Bulganin to replace Georgy Malenkov. At the 20th Congress of the Communist Party, he gave a (*) "secret speech" denouncing his predecessor's cult of personality and the excesses of the Great Purge of the 1930s. For 10 points, name this head of the Soviet Union who succeeded Joseph Stalin. ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev 
9. In one song, this man has “the gentle folk around him, They say he's grown so tarnal proud (+), he will not ride without them.” That song is (*) “Yankee Doodle.” This man's opponents supposedly played a song whose lyrics are about a ban on Christmas celebrations, “The World Turned Upside Down,” at one of his victories. For 10 points, name this first American president. ANSWER: George Washington 
10. Charlotte Dupuy sued this politician for the freedom of herself and her two sons. With John Allen, this man defended Aaron Burr in an 1806 trial for planning an invasion of Spanish territory. This owner of the Ashland estate lost the 1844 Presidential election to James (+) K. Polk. This Senator was accused of participating in a "Corrupt Bargain" with John (*) Quincy Adams during the 1824 election, and he was the main author of the Missouri Compromise and the Compromise of 1850. For 10 points, name this Kentucky Senator, who thus earned the nickname "the Great Compromiser." ANSWER: Henry Clay 
11. This nation’s anti-communist Patriotic People’s Movement was a continuation of its earlier far-right Lapua movement. In one conflict this country employed a sniper called the (+) White Death. This nation, which used motti encirclement tactics to win the Battle of Raate Road, was forced to lease Porkkala after losing the (*) Continuation War. During another conflict it was led by Carl Mannerheim. For 10 points, name this nation which fought the Winter War with the Soviet Union, and was the site of the signing of the Helsinki Accords. ANSWER: Finland 
12. Ryan DeGraffenreid blocked a constitutional amendment in this state revising gubernatorial term limits. The Cahaba Boys were a terrorist group based in this state, the home of (+) Bull Connor. In this state's "Bloody Sunday," protesters were blocked from crossing the Edmund Pettis Bridge. In addition to that march beginning in Selma, Robert Chambliss was convicted of (*) bombing the 16th Street Baptist Church in this state. The "Stand in the Schoolhouse Door" was performed by a governor of this state named George Wallace. For 10 points, name this state home to Rosa Parks, in which Martin Luther King, Jr., organized a bus boycott in Montgomery. ANSWER: Alabama 
13. Under the advice of Rene de Maupeou, this king took away the veto power of the Parlements. His marriage to the princess Marie led him to support Stanislaw Leszczynski (luh-SHIN-ski) as king of (+) Poland. Under this king, France lost its territory in Canada and India to Britain. He was in power during the declaration (*) "After me, the deluge," and he had a long-running affair with the Madame de Pompadour. For 10 points, name this French king, the last to reach the end of his life naturally before the French Revolution. ANSWER: Louis XV [prompt on Louis ] 
