1. As Secretary of State, this man negotiated a treaty with Emiliano Chamorro that gave the U.S. the right to build a Nicaraguan canal. This man resigned as Secretary of State after a second note was sent protesting the Lusitania sinking. For 10 points, name this man who lost two elections to William McKinley as leader of the Democrats and Populists. ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan 
2. This man was criticized for calling the Afghanistan conflict a “war of Obama’s choosing.” This man was replaced by Wisconsin politician Reince Priebus, despite promising to be “off the hook” and to bring his party into more “urban-suburban hip-hop settings.” For 10 points, name this chair of the RNC from 2009 to 2011. ANSWER: Michael Steele 
3. This modern-day country was split in two until the 1818 suicide of King Henry I. A legend claims that its flag was created by removing the white stripe from the French flag; Jean-Jacques Dessalines later ordered a massacre of the French. For 10 points, Toussaint L'Ouverture was a revolutionary hero in what first Caribbean country to declare independence? ANSWER: Republic of Haiti [or Republique d' Haiti ; or Repiblik d' Ayiti ] 
4. This agreement outlined a freedom of movement as well as a Committee of the States, and Samuel Huntington was the first to serve under it. Five states met in Annapolis to reevaluate it shortly after its weaknesses were revealed by the poor response to Shays’ Rebellion. For ten points, name this United States government which preceded the Constitution. ANSWER: Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union 
5. This leader used the murder of Sergey Kirov as a pretext to run a series of show trials to kill Lev Kamenev and Grigory Zinoviev. He was denounced in his successor's "Secret Speech." He represented the USSR at the Potsdam conference. For 10 points, name this Soviet dictator who succeeded Lenin and ruled during World War II. ANSWER: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin [or Ioseb Dzhugashvili ] 
6. The first member of this house passed the title Lord of Annandale to his descendants. Edward of Balliol advanced on the forces of David II, who was a member of this house. The hero of the Battle of Bannockburn who signed the Treaty of Northampton with England was a member of this house. For 10 points, name this royal house that includes Robert I of Scotland. ANSWER: Bruce family [or House of Bruce ; or Clan Bruce ] 
7. An emperor of this dynasty converted the dying Tran state into the province of Annam. Gavin Menzies argues that treasure junks commissioned by its emperor discovered the Americas. The founder of this dynasty defeated Chen Youliang at Lake Poyang. Emperors of this dynasty, which began with the Red Turban Rebellion, included the Yongle and Hongwu. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty that sponsored the voyages of Zheng He (jung HA) and ruled after the Mongol Yuan (WON) dynasty. ANSWER: Ming Dynasty 
8. One character on this show exclaims, "Oh, it's Ben!" after being tipped by a wealthy girl. Two characters on this show perform a dance to "Jump on It" and are lambasted by James Avery's character, who is a judge. A character named Jazz is frequently thrown out in this show, whose opening theme includes the line "I whistled for a cab, and then it came near." For 10 points, identify this 1990s show featuring Carlton and Philip Banks, and starring Will Smith as a kid who moves from Philadelphia to California. ANSWER: The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air 
9. During one crisis, this politician withdrew his nation from the European Community until the passage of the Luxembourg Compromise. He established the CEA to deal with atomic energy and signed the Evian Accords. Lester Pearson was alienated by this man's declaration "Long live free Quebec!" This leader founded the RPF and commanded the Free French Forces against Petain's Vichy regime in World War II. For 10 points, name this founder of the French Fifth Republic. ANSWER: Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle 
10. In this novel, the protagonist’s wife dies in a car accident while traveling to visit him as he recovers from a plane crash. Along with the gunner Roland Weary, the protagonist of this novel is captured during the Battle of the Bulge. That protagonist of this novel survives being placed in a zoo on another planet as well as the firebombing of Dresden. For 10 points, name this novel by Kurt Vonnegut in which Billy Pilgrim is kidnapped by Tralfamadorians and becomes unstuck in time. ANSWER: Slaughterhouse-Five , or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death 
Quarter Two
1. One politician from this country, Rudolf Slansky, was purged in a show trial. This nation was first led by Tomas Masaryk. Edvard Benes led this nation twice; his second term ended when Klement Gottwald and the Communists staged a coup. Nazi Germany took over the Sudetenland from this country, and it ceased to exist after the Velvet Divorce. For 10 points, name this former nation that split into two following the Cold War. ANSWER: Czechoslovakia [or Ceskoslovensko ; do not accept "Czech Republic"; do not accept "Slovakia"] BONUS: Who became the first leader of an independent Czech Republic following the Cold War? ANSWER: Vaclav Havel 
2. This scientist discovered that antiseptics were harming soldiers during World War I. This discoverer of lysozyme shared a Nobel Prize with Howard Florey and Ernst Boris Chain after discovering a beta-lactam molecule that inhibits peptidoglycan (PEP-tid-ohg-LIE-can) cross-linking in bacterial cell walls. For 10 points, name this man who accidentally discovered the first antibiotic, penicillin. ANSWER: Alexander Fleming BONUS: What fellow medicine laureate, a double Nobel winner who discovered the structure of insulin, died in 2013? ANSWER: Frederick Sanger 
3. This work refers to religion and morality as “indispensable supports” for “political prosperity.” It notes that Americans “have the same religion, manners,” and habits. This text warns against the “danger of parties in the state” and also advises the nation to “steer clear of permanent alliances” with foreign powers. For 10 points, name this letter published as the final speech of the first U.S. president. ANSWER: George Washington’s Farewell Address BONUS: Washington’s warning about foreign entanglements may refer to the actions of what French ambassador, who had tried to recruit American privateers to fight the British? ANSWER: Edmond-Charles Genet [or Citizen Genet ] 
4. The disclosure of this event led to the resignation of Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson and Assistant Commissioner John Yates. The first person to come forward about this scandal was Sean Hoare. This scandal led to the arrest of Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson, who served as Director of Communications for David Cameron. For 10 points, name this scandal involving Rupert Murdoch’s media empire, in which News of the World employees illegally accessed voicemails of celebrities, the royal family, and others. ANSWER: News International phone hacking scandal [or News of the World phone hacking scandal or other obvious equivalents] BONUS: What leader of the Labour Party and the Opposition to Cameron in Britain has been outspoken against the phone hacking scandal and Rupert Murdoch’s control of much of the media? ANSWER: Edward Samuel Miliband 
5. This leader repelled Italian forces at the Battle of Tobruk. This leader's political philosophy was summed up in the "Six Arrows." He disagreed with the choice of Enver as a replacement for Abdul Hamid II. This leader was in charge of defending the Dardanelles Straits during the Balkan Wars and was in command of the Gallipoli outpost during World War I. As president of his country, he changed the alphabet from Arabic to Roman and outlawed the fez. For 10 points, name this man considered to be the "Father of the Turks." ANSWER: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk [or Kemal Ataturk ] BONUS: Name this treaty that set the boundaries of Turkey, which was signed by Ataturk and the Allies at the namesake town in Switzerland. It overruled the terms of the Treaty of Sevres. ANSWER: Treaty of Lausanne 
6. This presidential election was the first in American history in which both candidates ran publicly-funded campaigns. The incumbent in this election claimed there was "no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe," abandoned his vice-president to run with Bob Dole, and suffered for his controversial pardon of his predecessor. For 10 points, name this election in which Gerald Ford lost to Jimmy Carter. ANSWER: Election of 1976 BONUS: What vice-president did Gerald Ford dump to run with Dole? ANSWER: elson N Rockefeller [prompt on Rockefeller ] 
7. An election for this position included an unsuccessful run as an independent candidate by Arianna Huffington. Tom McClintock and Cruz Bustamante also ran for this position in that election, which included 135 total candidates. This position switched hands in 2003 after a successful recall election. For 10 points, name this political office that was held until 2011 by Arnold Schwarzenegger. ANSWER: Governor of California [or equivalents; prompt on partial answer] BONUS: What nickname did current California governor Jerry Brown acquire in 1976 out of columnist Mike Royko's frustration with idealists and eccentrics among Brown's support base? ANSWER: "Governor Moonbeam " 
8. This man accompanied agent John Skinner to secure the release of Dr. William Beanes from the British. This man’s most notable poem claims “And this be our motto, ‘In God we trust,’” sung to the tune of “Anacreon of Heaven.” While imprisoned on a British truce ship during the War of 1812, he watched the Battle of Baltimore and wrote “The Defense of Fort McHenry,” which extols “the land of the free and the home of the brave.” For 10 points, name this author of the lyrics to “The Star-Spangled Banner.” ANSWER: Francis Scott Key BONUS: An additional stanza to “The Star-Spangled Banner” was written by this poet, who penned the work “Old Ironsides” in honor of the USS Constitution . ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: THE PROTESTANT REFORMATION QUESTION: During the Protestant Reformation, which... 1. German set off the Reformation by posting his 95 Theses in Wittenburg? ANSWER: Martin Luther 2. English king created the Anglican church in order to annul his marriage with Catherine of Aragon? ANSWER: Henry VIII [prompt on Henry ] 3. French reformer espoused predestination in works such as The Institutes of the Christian Religion ? ANSWER: John Calvin [or Jean Cauvin ] 4. Author of In Praise of Folly argued for internal reform? ANSWER: Desiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam 5. Reformer opposed Mary, Queen of Scots, and established the Presbyterian Church in Scotland? ANSWER: John Knox 6. City's castle was the site of a namesake 1529 "colloquy" that included Ulrich Zwingli? ANSWER: Marburg 7. Alliance of Protestant princes in the Holy Roman Empire was co-founded by Philip I of Hesse? ANSWER: Schmalkaldic League 8. Protestant theologian wrote the Augsburg Confession? ANSWER: Philip Melancthon 
CATEGORY: DICTATORS QUESTION: In what nation did the dictator... 1. Kim Jong Il declare his father the Eternal Supreme Leader? ANSWER: North Korea [prompt on Korea ] 2. Daniel Arap Moi rule? ANSWER: Kenya 3. Indira Gandhi forcibly sterilize male citizens? ANSWER: India 4. Robert Mugabe cause a massive hyperinflation? ANSWER: Zimbabwe 5. Hugo Chavez proclaim Socialism for the 21st Century? ANSWER: Venezuela 6. Augusto Pinochet replace the suicidal communist Salvador Allende? ANSWER: Chile 7. Saparmurat Niyazov ban lip synching? ANSWER: Turkmenistan 8. Rafael Trujillo massacre people who mispronounced the Spanish word for parsley? ANSWER: Dominican Republic 
CATEGORY: THE ASSASSINATION OF JULIUS CAESAR QUESTION: Julius Caesar's assassination... 1. Was performed with what method of murder? ANSWER: stabbing with daggers [or obvious equivalents] 2. Occurred at a meeting of what Roman legislature? ANSWER: the Senate [or Senatus ] 3. Occurred on what notorious date in 44 BCE? ANSWER: the Ides of March [or March 15 ] 4. Killed the last survivor of what alliance including Pompey and Crassus? ANSWER: the First Triumvirate [prompt on Triumvirate ] 5. Was a reaction to Caesar assuming an unprecedented ten-year term in what emergency office of absolute power? ANSWER: dictator 6. Sparked a thirteen-year period of instability that ended with what naval victory of Augustus over Antony and Cleopatra? ANSWER: Battle of Actium 7. Was organized by what cousin of Brutus with a "lean and hungry look?" ANSWER: Gaius Cassius Longinus 8. Led to a wave of what Roman practice, the targeted assassinations of political enemies, that included the death of Cicero? ANSWER: proscription s 
Quarter Four
1. Under the advice of Rene de Maupeou, this king took away the veto power of the Parlements. His marriage to the princess Marie led him to support Stanislaw Leszczynski (luh-SHIN-ski) as king of (+) Poland. Under this king, France lost its territory in Canada and India to Britain. He was in power during the declaration (*) "After me, the deluge," and he had a long-running affair with the Madame de Pompadour. For 10 points, name this French king, the last to reach the end of his life naturally before the French Revolution. ANSWER: Louis XV [prompt on Louis ] 
2. This country was awarded control of Jubaland in exchange for its contributions to World War I, and soon incorporated that province into its longer-term colony of (+) Somaliland. This country's imperial ambitions also led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (*) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
3. This man sparked a firestorm during World War I when he accused Samuel Lothrop and others of spying for the U.S. under the cover of fieldwork. This thinker's early field research included a trip to Baffin Island studying Inuit migration, as described in his monograph The Central Eskimo. This thinker posited a (+) patrilineal-to-matrilineal shift in Kwakiutl society and wrote The Mind of Primitive Man. After establishing the first (*) doctoral program of its kind at Columbia University, he taught Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict. For 10 points, name this "father of American anthropology." ANSWER: Franz Boas 
4. The Ludlow Amendment voiced the concerns of this movement. The Nye Committee fueled the anger of this movement by investigating several "merchants of death." Heavyweights in this movement included Bull Moose running mate and California senator Hiram Johnson, noted "lion" and Idaho senator William (+) Borah, and several members of the "Irreconcilables." Woodrow Wilson's re-election slogan pandered to people in this (*) movement, who later blocked the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles. For 10 points, name this movement opposed to U.S. participation in alliances or wars. ANSWER: American isolation ists [or America First movement; or American pacifist s; or American anti-war activists; or word forms] 
5. A document central to this policy noted that, “the greatest danger that can befall us is that we shall allow ourselves to become like those with whom we are coping.” An anonymous article in (+) Foreign Affairs magazine and the “Long Telegram” supported this strategy and were written by its formulator, George (*) Kennan. This policy was put into action with the Truman Doctrine. For 10 points, name this foreign policy strategy of the United States in the 1940s and early 50s that sought to stifle the expansion of the Soviet Union’s influence. ANSWER: Containment [prompt on Truman Doctrine until it is read] 
6. This politician turned down Dewey's first invitation to be his running mate but accepted it to run in (+) 1948. He led a namesake Commission to investigate the assassination of (*) JFK. This judge oversaw the court that decreed law officers must read criminal suspects their rights in the Miranda case. This man read the unanimous opinion in his court that ruled unconstitutional "separate but equal." For 10 points, name this Chief Justice during Brown v. Board of Education . ANSWER: Earl Warren 
7. After this event, several states passed laws requiring identification in order to buy ammonium nitrate. The ringleader of this (+) attack reportedly chose his target because an alternative had a florist's shop on the first floor. Terry Nichols collaborated on this attack, which commemorated incidents at (*) Ruby Ridge and Waco. For 10 points, name this attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in a state capital, masterminded by Timothy McVeigh. ANSWER: Oklahoma City bombing [or obvious equivalents] 
8. In The Literal Meaning of Genesis , this writer contradicted contemporaries who practiced astrology. This writer describes how to teach Scripture in On Christian Doctrine . He detailed in one work an instance where being in the company of sinners influenced him to (+) steal pears. This writer proposed in another work written shortly after the sack of Rome that that the community of believers was an entity separate from the (*) Earthly City. That work is City of God . This man detailed his youthful belief in Manichaeism and conversion to Christianity in Confessions . For 10 points, name this Christian theologian and Church Doctor, a Bishop of Hippo. ANSWER: Augustine of Hippo [or Saint Augustine ; or Blessed Augustine ; accept Saint Austin ; accept Saint Augoustinos ] 
9. A hero of this event was featured on the poster "above and beyond the call of duty," after manning a machine gun despite only being trained as a cook. This event, in which Dorie Miller became famous, was followed by an incident in which a crash-landed (+) pilot received aid from three locals on the island of Niihau. A fourteen-part message was unable to be transcribed before this event, during which over a thousand people died in the explosion of the (*) Arizona. For 10 points, name this event after which Franklin Roosevelt proclaimed that December 7, 1941 "will live in infamy." ANSWER: Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor 
10. The addition of copper hulls to ships in this navy provoked mutinies at Spithead and Nore. The "Glorious First of June" was a triumph for this navy. This navy won the Battle of Cape St. Vincent off the Portuguese coast and forced Tsar Paul to abandon the League of Armed Neutrality at the Battle of (+) Copenhagen. The quota system and impressment supplied sailors to this dominant maritime power in the (*) Napoleonic Wars. For 10 points, identify this navy that triumphed over the French at the Battle of Trafalgar, under the leadership of Horatio Nelson. ANSWER: the British Navy [or the English navy; or the navy of the nited ingdom; or the U K Royal Navy] 
11. In this election year, one nominee ran with former football player Jack Kemp. This election was the first time the Green Party ran with (+) advocate Ralph Nader, and the second time Ross Perot ran for the office. The winner of this election was was later (*) impeached for perjury related to an affair with Monica Lewinsky. For 10 points, name this election in which Bob Dole lost to Bill Clinton. ANSWER: United States Election of 1996 
12. This President appointed Louis A. Johnson as Secretary of Defense, and his administration authorized a strategic document written by Paul Nitze known as "NSC-68." The (+) Taft-Hartley Act was passed over this President's veto. This President had a sign on his desk stating that "the buck stops here!," and he used the slogan (*) "Fair Deal" for his domestic platform. His "doctrine" attempted to keep Communism out of Greece and Turkey. For 10 points, name this subject of an incorrect newspaper headline claiming that he lost the 1948 Presidential election to Thomas Dewey. ANSWER: Harry S. Truman 
13. This group long failed to eliminate such nuisances as the Victual Brothers. This group was the chief beneficiary of the (+) Peace of Stralsund, signed with Waldemar IV of Denmark. Its "kontore" were found in Bremen, Novgorod, and London, as well as at its administrative center, (*) Luebeck. For 10 points, identify this German-dominated association of trading towns which controlled Northern European shipping in the late medieval period. ANSWER: Hanseatic League [or Hansa ; or Hanse ] 
14. One attempt to end this period saw the deposition of Benedict XIII and Gregory XII in favor of Alexander V, but it failed when the former two refused to recognize the Council of Pisa. This period began when a group of cardinals elected Clement VII at (+) Anagni in opposition to Urban VI after the Avignon Papacy. The council that ended this period issued the decree Sacrosancta , which epitomized the conciliar movement, and excommunicated (*) Jan Hus. For 10 points, name this period ended by the Council of Constance with the election of Martin V that saw two or three rival popes in Western Europe. ANSWER: Western Schism [or Great Western Schism ; prompt on Great Schism before “Western”; do not accept “Great Schism of 1054”; do not accept “East-West Schism”] 
15. This country's imperial ambitions led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (+) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer (*) Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
16. It isn’t a Punic War, but this war’s final days featured the “Hannibal war” involving Hannibal Sehested. During it, the battle of Rocroi was won by a man known as "le Great Conde." This war’s peace terms gave Alsace back to France in a treaty negotiated by Cardinal (+) Mazarin. While fighting at the Lech River during the Battle of Rain, the Count of Tilly died in it, and an opposing ruler perished during the battle of (*) Lutzen. For 10 points, name this European war whose heroes included Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus, and which was ended by the Peace of Westphalia. ANSWER: Thirty Years War 
17. A politician from this state served as commissioner of Major League Baseball during Jackie Robinson's integration. Another politician from this state hosted a political talk show called Meet the Veep and was Vice-President Alben Barkley. Abolitionist Cassius (+) Clay was a native of this state, which was represented in the Senate by Richard Mentor Johnson and (*) Henry Clay. This state was represented in the Senate by Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Bunning, who was succeeded by Rand Paul. For 10 points, name this state, which was settled via trails blazed by Daniel Boone. ANSWER: Kentucky 
18. The "New Covenant" was proposed as an alternative to this program. Only two of the (+) ten proposed bills in this program were signed into law, largely because Bob Dole could not push them through the Senate. The namesake (*) document outlining this program was written mostly by Dick Armey and signed by every Republican challenger for the House of Representatives. For 10 points, name this proposed legislative program credited for the large Republican gains in the 1994 Congressional elections. ANSWER: Contract with America 
19. Charles VI of France sent some equipment for playing this sport to Henry V in both real life and the Shakespeare play. France's Louis X was the first recorded builder of indoor (+) courts for playing this sport; one such court was the location of a meeting of the (*) Third Estate which pledged not to dissolve the National Assembly until a constitution was written. For 10 points, name this sport whose later innovations included the introduction of a net over which players hit balls with rackets. ANSWER: tennis 
20. Kitchener refused to let this leader serve in France despite his qualifications as a pilot that he used to form "The King's Flight." This leader's wife had an affair with the German Ambassador Joachim von (+) Ribbentrop, leading to FBI suspicions that this ruler was a Nazi sympathizer, for which he was sent to the Bahamas. The Church of England and prime minister Stanley Baldwin frowned on this ruler's affair with a (*) divorced American socialite named Wallis Simpson, but he could not rule without the "support of the woman" he loved. For 10 points, name this British monarch who became the only one to abdicate the throne in 1936. ANSWER: Edward VIII of England [or Edward Albert Christian George Andrew Patrick David ; prompt on Edward ] 
21. The nephew of this structure's designated occupant, Hemiunu, was in charge of its construction, which was not carried out by (+) slaves of the second leader of the Fourth Dynasty. This structure was constructed for (*) Khufu, or Cheops, as a tomb. For 10 points, name the oldest and only extant member of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, located near the Nile River in Egypt. ANSWER: Great Pyramid of Giza [or Pyramid of Giza or Pyramid of Cheops or Pyramid of Khufu ] 
22. The death of this group's member Fred Hampton led to a "Declaration of War" by the Weather Underground. They partnered with St. Augustine's Church to begin their "Free (+) Breakfast for Children" program. This group included guarantees for an education "that exposes the true nature of this decadent American society" as part of its Ten-Point Platform. This group's honorary prime minister was (*) Stokely Carmichael, and an early leader was Eldridge Cleaver. For 10 points, name this militant black power group started in 1966 in Oakland by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale. ANSWER: Black Panther s [or Black Panther Party for Self-Defense] 
23. Richard Feynman claimed that years of revisions in this value proceeded too slowly due to researcher bias in favor of its first measurement. Gerald Holton accused the scientist who measured this value of (+) fraudulently excluding data. The experiment that determined this quantity used a setup involving parallel plates and an atomizer. After using the terminal velocity to find mass, this quantity was calculated by balancing the (*) electric and gravitational fields. For 10 points, name this quantity found by the Millikan oil-drop experiment to be 1.6 times ten to the negative nineteen coulombs. ANSWER: elementary charge [or charge of an electron ] 
24. Over one hundred soldiers escaped from this state's Libby Prison during the Civil War. This was the state where J.E.B. Stuart died at the Battle of Yellow Tavern. Ulysses S. Grant deeply regretted the high casualties he suffered attacking fortified Confederate positions at (+) Cold Harbor here. The Overland and Wilderness Campaigns were fought in this state, as was the siege of (*) Petersburg and the Battle of Chancellorsville. For 10 points, name this site of both Battles of Bull Run, as well as the surrender at Appomattox and the Confederate capital of Richmond. ANSWER: Commonwealth of Virginia 
25. The 37th clause of this document concerned the nature of inheritance involving a "fee-farm." This document also discussed the removal of fish-weirs and put forth restriction on the levying of (+) scutage. This document also created a committee of Lords, which was in line with this document's general trends of limiting the power of the (*) monarchy. This document also codified the right of habeas corpus and was signed at Runnymede. For 10 points, identify this 1215 document signed by King John of England. ANSWER: Magna Carta 
26. Two women with this first name agreed to exchange Robert of Gloucester for a ruler captured at the Battle of Winchester. A queen of this name was supported by an alliance with David I of Scotland, who was defeated fighting on her behalf at the Battle of the Standard. Holy Roman Emperor (+) Henry IV walked to Canossa Castle, which was owned by a woman with this name. William the Conqueror's Flemish wife had this name, as did the chosen heir of (*) Henry I of England after the White Ship disaster. For 10 points, give this first name of the queen who fought King Stephen in the Anarchy. ANSWER: Matilda [or Maud e] 
27. Environmentalists prevented Transneft from building an oil pipeline near this body of water, whose northern tip lies near a railroad nicknamed “the BAM.” The highest point in this body is Mount Zhima, located on its island of Olkhon. Exiles from the (+) Decembrist revolt were sent to Irkutsk, near this lake. This lake is home to nerpa seal and golomyanka fish, and it feeds the Angara river at its southern end. Twenty percent of the (*) world’s river and lakewater is in this lake. For 10 points, name this lake in southwestern Russia, the deepest in the world. ANSWER: Lake Baikal 
28. Friedrich Nietzsche attacked this man for limiting the Dionysian element of culture and promoting a destructive rationalism. He fought at Potidaea according to one character in Laches. He claims he eschewed public life during the reign of the (+) Thirty Tyrants in a speech where he also compares himself to a gadfly rousing his city from lethargy. That speech was recorded by his most famous (*) pupil in the Apology. For 10 points, name this philosopher condemned to drinking hemlock for corrupting the youth of Athens, who was the teacher of Plato. ANSWER: Socrates 
29. A life of this ruler was written by the bishop of Caesarea, Eusebius. This leader secured his power after defeating Licinius, with whom he had earlier jointly issued an edict. That edict issued by this ruler improved the state of (+) religious toleration in his territories. This leader was betrayed by but defeated both the father and son, (*) Maximian and Maxentius. This leader was inspired to paint the chi-ro symbol on his men's shields at the Battle of Milvian Bridge. For 10 points, name this first Christian Roman Emperor who renamed Istanbul for himself. ANSWER: Constantine the Great [or Constantine I ; or Flavius Valerius Constantinus ; prompt on Constantine ; prompt on Constantinus ] 
30. This song attacks two phrases of George H. W. Bush with the lines, “We’ve got a thousand points of light for the homeless man,” and “We’ve got a kinder, gentler machine gun hand.” Earlier, the singer describes “a woman in the night with a baby in her hand” and laments, (+) “There’s one more kid that’ll never go to school, never get to fall in love, never get to be cool.” The singer begins by noting, “There’s (*) colors on the street: red, white, and blue.” For 10 points, name this Neil Young song that instructs the listener to “keep on” performing the title musical action. ANSWER: “ Rockin’ in the Free World ” 
31. While working on the Rogers Commission investigating the Challenger explosion, this man demonstrated the fragility of the (+) O-rings by dunking one into a cup of ice water. This man won the Nobel prize along with Tomonaga and Schwinger for his work on (*) quantum electrodynamics. For 10 points, what Cal Tech physicist is most famous for eponymous diagrams that show how subatomic particles interact and his colorful lifestyle chronicled in his autobiography whose title asks “Surely You’re Joking.” ANSWER: Richard Phillips Feynman 
32. In December 2011 a complaint about his company's attempt to open a South Carolina plant while in a dispute with its (+) Machinists union was withdrawn. It has announced plans to close its (*) Wichita facilities despite Kansas lawmakers' help in securing a refueling tanker contract from the military. A new product from this company uses composite materials in its fuselage and recently entered service at All Nippon Airways. For 10 points, name this maker of the 787 Dreamliner plane. ANSWER: The Boeing Company 
33. One of this player's nicknames was created after Jack Dunn offered him a contract after seeing him play for less than an hour. This player ranks third all-time in walks and second all-time in career (+) on-base percentage, and hit a memorable home run in Wrigley Field against Charlie Root in the 1932 World Series, before which he allegedly (*) called his shot. Roger Maris broke one of this man’s single-season records. For 10 points, identify this baseball legend who hit 714 home runs, many during his time with the Yankees. ANSWER: George Herman "Babe" Ruth 
