1. This ruler was once exiled to the residence of Hatfield. The Duke of Norfolk was executed after the Ridolfi Plot against this ruler was revealed, which occurred after Pius V excommunicated this monarch in the papal bull Regnans in excelsis . Francis Walsingham prevented the Babington Plot from affecting this leader, who was then forced to order the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots. For 10 points, name this "Virgin Queen" of England who ruled during the 1588 invasion of the Spanish Armada. ANSWER: Elizabeth I [prompt on Elizabeth ] 
2. At this war’s end, Italy got the province of Venetia. This war was decided at the battle of Sadova, also called Koniggratz. The winners excluded the losers from the Zollverein customs union, and it followed after the Danish War over Schleswig-Holstein. For 10 points, name this war in which Bismarck’s country defeated a southern neighbor in about fifty days. ANSWER: Austro-Prussian War [or Seven Weeks’ War ] 
3. Pothinus exiled this leader and Arsinone IV for ignoring Ptolemy XIII's claim to the throne. This leader apocryphally rolled up in a rug to meet one lover and was bitten by an asp after her other lover committed suicide. Ptolemy XII was the father of this last Pharaoh of Egypt. For 10 points, name this lover of Julius Caesar and Marc Antony. ANSWER: Cleopatra VII Thea Philopator 
4. Henry le Despenser defeated one side in this event at the Battle of North Walsham. John Ball and Jack Straw were two leaders of this, though its most famous leader was killed by William Wolworth. One of the grievances that caused this event was the Statute of Laborers. For 10 points, name this 1381 rebellion led by Wat Tyler. ANSWER: Peasants' Revolt [or Wat Tyler 's Rebellion before mention; or Great Rising ] 
5. This man’s namesake organization broadcast the radio show Hour of Decision ; that organization is now led by his son Franklin. George W. Bush’s story of how this man converted him to Christianity has been discredited. He has been an informal advisor to U.S. Presidents since Eisenhower. For 10 points, name this preacher known for his televised “crusades” in the 1950s. ANSWER: William Franklin Graham , Jr. [or Billy Graham ] 
6. During this battle, a farmhouse called La Haye Sainte was captured by the Old Guard commander Michel Ney. The losing side's right flank was attacked at this battle by Gebhard von Bluecher, ultimately leading to the defeated commander's exile to Saint Helena. For 10 points, name this 1815 battle in which Napoleon was defeated by the Duke of Wellington. ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo 
7. One painting by this man depicts two women, one in red beneath a tree and one in grey near a body of water. In addition to Evening in Arcady, this artist created a four-painting series following a man and angel from Childhood to Old Age as well as a series including The Savage State and Desolation. For 10 points, name this member of the Hudson River School who painted the Voyage of Life and Course of Empire series. ANSWER: Thomas Cole 
8. A conversation with Eadward Muybridge prompted this man to develop his Kinetoscope. He opposed George Westinghouse’s promotion of alternating current, advocated by this man's former employee Nikola Tesla. The inventor of the stock ticker and the phonograph, for 10 points, name this “Wizard of Menlo Park”, the inventor of the incandescent light bulb. ANSWER: Thomas Alva Edison 
9. One member of this organization is remembered in Saviours' Day. This group's official newspaper is The Final Call . This group organized the Million Man March in Washington, D.C., and believes in an evil scientist named Dr. Yakub, who created new races. Its leaders have included Elijah Muhammad and Louis Farrakhan, and its members have included El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz, who was killed after leaving this group. For 10 points, name this American organization whose members have included Malcolm X. ANSWER: Nation of Islam 
10. This composer included three Venetian Boat Songs in his collection Songs Without Words . A visit to Fingal’s Cave inspired both his Hebrides Overture and his Scottish Symphony . For 10 points, identify this German composer who wrote a famous "Wedding March" for his incidental music for A Midsummer Night’s Dream . ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn [or Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy] 
Quarter Two
1. This man did the Warschauer Kniefall when he kneeled at a monument in an apology for his country's actions in the Warsaw Ghetto uprising. This man's government recognized the Oder-Neisse Line in 1970. The revelation that Markus Wolf worked with this man's aide Gunter Guillaume led to this man's downfall. This man gained prominence while serving as mayor of West Berlin when the Berlin Wall was erected. For 10 points, name this chancellor of West Germany who pursued detente with the Soviet bloc through Ostpolitik. ANSWER: Willy Brandt [or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm ] BONUS: Konrad Adenauer was the first leader of what party that allied with the Social Democratic Party during Brandt's term as chancellor? ANSWER: Christian Democratic Union [or Christian Democrats ; or CDU ; or Christlich-Demokratische Union] 
2. This is not the Anti H-Block Party, but this political party utilized the “Armalite and ballot box strategy” to contest 1980’s elections. This party’s president is Gerry Adams, and a former member went on to found Fianna Fail. It is particularly opposed to the Ulster Unionist Party. For 10 points, name this left wing political party typically associated with the Irish Republican Army. ANSWER: Sinn Fein [do not accept “Irish Republican Army”] BONUS: What Irish Republican Army member was elected to Parliament and died in a 1981 hunger strike to protest treatment of prisoners? ANSWER: Robert Gerard “Bobby” Sands 
3. The first of these objects was displayed on Prospect Hill, and was the "Grand Union." A woman originally named Elizabeth Griscom chose a circular arrangement for this object, which is celebrated on a June 14 holiday. After seeing one of them in Fort McHenry, Francis Scott Key wrote "The Star Spangled Banner." For 10 points, name these objects which originally had thirteen stripes and thirteen stars. ANSWER: American flag s [or obvious equivalents; prompt on flag s] BONUS: What state's 1989 prosecution of Gregory Johnson led to a Supreme Court case ruling that the First Amendment protected burning the American flag? ANSWER: Texas 
4. In one of this man's operas, Ferrando and Guglielmo pretend to take poison in an attempt to win over Fiordiligi and Dorabella. Besides Cosi fan tutte, this man's works include one in which Monostatos is thwarted by magic bells that were given to the bird-catcher Papageno by Pamina's mother, the Queen of the Night. For 10 points, name this composer of The Magic Flute. ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart BONUS: In Cosi fan tutte, the fake poison is "cured" with a magnet, a technique attributed to what real eighteenth-century German doctor who developed a theory of "animal magnetism?" ANSWER: Franz Anton Mesmer 
5. One opinion in this case by Tom Clark said the Court went “too far, too fast,” while Missouri v. Seibert struck down Missouri’s attempts to get around the outcome. The defendant in this case was stabbed to death in a 1976 bar fight and had been accused of rape and kidnapping. For 10 points, name this 1966 Supreme Court case which established that a defendant must be informed of his rights. ANSWER: Miranda v. Arizona BONUS: In his dissent in Miranda , John Marshall Harlan II quoted what former Supreme Court Justice, who was the chief U.S. prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials? ANSWER: Robert Houghwout Jackson 
6. This state is the home of bodies of water such as Lake Isom, which is a National Wildlife Refuge area, and Reelfoot Lake. The city of Murfreesboro is the geographic center of this state, and attractions like the National Civil Rights Museum, found in the former Lorraine Motel, and Graceland are found in this state's city of Memphis. For 10 points, name this state, with capital in Nashville. ANSWER: Tennessee BONUS: The highest point in Tennessee is Clingmans Dome, which is part of this subrange of the Appalachian Mountains. ANSWER: Great Smoky Mountains [or the Smokies ] 
7. Two F-4 Phantom II jets flying over this city lost communication in a supposed 1976 UFO incident. Support to the Yugoslav Partisans and a commitment to Operation Overlord came of a 1943 conference held here. Millions mobbed an Air France Boeing 747 as it arrived in this city in 1979, bearing Ayatollah Khomeini. For 10 points, name this city where, for 444 days, Americans were held hostage. ANSWER: Tehran BONUS: The 1981 Hafte Tir bombing in Tehran was perpetrated by a terrorist group with what name, meaning "strugglers," shared by the Afghan forces who resisted the Soviet invasion? ANSWER: mujahideen 
8. This man wrote a song in which he labeled the killer of Medgar Evers "Only a Pawn in Their Game." He wrote a song with Jacques Levy that attacked the imprisonment of boxer Rubin Carter, "Hurricane." Another song of his asks, "How many roads must a man walk down, Before you can call him a man?" For 10 points, name this American folk singer of "Blowin' in the Wind" and "Like a Rolling Stone." ANSWER: Bob Dylan [or Robert Zimmerman ] BONUS: What earlier folk singer wrote songs such as "Do Re Mi" and "This Land Is Your Land" and was a major influence on Bob Dylan? ANSWER: Woodrow Wilson "Woody" Guthrie 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: NOTABLE SCIENTISTS QUESTION: What notable scientist... 1. produced the Universal Law of Gravitation? ANSWER: Sir Isaac Newton 2. developed the laws of planetary motion? ANSWER: Johannes Kepler 3. was the first to observe cells? ANSWER: Robert Hooke 4. was the woman who co-discovered the double helix of DNA? ANSWER: Rosalind Franklin 5. developed a law relating gases by masses and volume? ANSWER: Amedeo Avogadro 6: developed a set of field equations that predict black holes? ANSWER: Albert Einstein 7: developed a set of diagrams for mapping subatomic particles? ANSWER: Richard Feynman 8. corrected the Ideal Gas Law to accounts for the attraction between molecules? ANSWER: Johannes Diderik van der Waals 
CATEGORY: THE COLD WAR QUESTION: Name the Cold War event that involved... 1. Germans destroying a barrier in their capital in 1989. ANSWER: fall of the Berlin Wall [or obvious equivalents] 2. Soviet nukes being stopped near a Caribbean island. ANSWER: Cuban Missile Crisis [or October Crisis] 3. Nasser seizing a waterway by the Red Sea. ANSWER: Suez Crisis [or Suez War; or Tripartite Aggression ] 4. A confrontation between Israel and its Arab neighbors that lasted for the namesake period of time in 1967. ANSWER: Six-Day War 5. Khrushchev showing that pilot Gary Powers was still alive. ANSWER: U2 Incident 6. Three separate bombardments of Kuomintang-held islands. ANSWER: Taiwan Straits Crises 7. The capture of an American naval vessel by North Korea in 1968? ANSWER: Pueblo incident 8. UNITA and the MPLA fighting over an African country? ANSWER: Angolan Civil War 
CATEGORY: EUROPEAN CITIES QUESTION: Which European city was... 1. The capital of the Byzantine Empire until it was sacked by the Ottomans in 1453? ANSWER: Constantinople 2. The headquarters of the Papacy from 1309 until 1377 in France? ANSWER: Avignon 3. Led by Doges like Enrico Dandolo? ANSWER: Venice 4. The site of a "Great Fire" in 1666? ANSWER: London 5. The site of Girolamo Savonarola's Bonfire of the Vanities? ANSWER: Florence 6. Called Aix-la-Chapelle in French and was the site of Charlemagne's court? ANSWER: Aachen 7. Baptized en masse by Vladimir I in the Dnieper River? ANSWER: Kiev 8. The capital of Poland until King Sigismund III Vasa moved it to Warsaw? ANSWER: Krakow 
Quarter Four
1. After this event, several states passed laws requiring identification in order to buy ammonium nitrate. The ringleader of this (+) attack reportedly chose his target because an alternative had a florist's shop on the first floor. Terry Nichols collaborated on this attack, which commemorated incidents at (*) Ruby Ridge and Waco. For 10 points, name this attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in a state capital, masterminded by Timothy McVeigh. ANSWER: Oklahoma City bombing [or obvious equivalents] 
2. In The Literal Meaning of Genesis , this writer contradicted contemporaries who practiced astrology. This writer describes how to teach Scripture in On Christian Doctrine . He detailed in one work an instance where being in the company of sinners influenced him to (+) steal pears. This writer proposed in another work written shortly after the sack of Rome that that the community of believers was an entity separate from the (*) Earthly City. That work is City of God . This man detailed his youthful belief in Manichaeism and conversion to Christianity in Confessions . For 10 points, name this Christian theologian and Church Doctor, a Bishop of Hippo. ANSWER: Augustine of Hippo [or Saint Augustine ; or Blessed Augustine ; accept Saint Austin ; accept Saint Augoustinos ] 
3. A hero of this event was featured on the poster "above and beyond the call of duty," after manning a machine gun despite only being trained as a cook. This event, in which Dorie Miller became famous, was followed by an incident in which a crash-landed (+) pilot received aid from three locals on the island of Niihau. A fourteen-part message was unable to be transcribed before this event, during which over a thousand people died in the explosion of the (*) Arizona. For 10 points, name this event after which Franklin Roosevelt proclaimed that December 7, 1941 "will live in infamy." ANSWER: Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor 
4. The addition of copper hulls to ships in this navy provoked mutinies at Spithead and Nore. The "Glorious First of June" was a triumph for this navy. This navy won the Battle of Cape St. Vincent off the Portuguese coast and forced Tsar Paul to abandon the League of Armed Neutrality at the Battle of (+) Copenhagen. The quota system and impressment supplied sailors to this dominant maritime power in the (*) Napoleonic Wars. For 10 points, identify this navy that triumphed over the French at the Battle of Trafalgar, under the leadership of Horatio Nelson. ANSWER: the British Navy [or the English navy; or the navy of the nited ingdom; or the U K Royal Navy] 
5. In this election year, one nominee ran with former football player Jack Kemp. This election was the first time the Green Party ran with (+) advocate Ralph Nader, and the second time Ross Perot ran for the office. The winner of this election was was later (*) impeached for perjury related to an affair with Monica Lewinsky. For 10 points, name this election in which Bob Dole lost to Bill Clinton. ANSWER: United States Election of 1996 
6. This President appointed Louis A. Johnson as Secretary of Defense, and his administration authorized a strategic document written by Paul Nitze known as "NSC-68." The (+) Taft-Hartley Act was passed over this President's veto. This President had a sign on his desk stating that "the buck stops here!," and he used the slogan (*) "Fair Deal" for his domestic platform. His "doctrine" attempted to keep Communism out of Greece and Turkey. For 10 points, name this subject of an incorrect newspaper headline claiming that he lost the 1948 Presidential election to Thomas Dewey. ANSWER: Harry S. Truman 
7. This group long failed to eliminate such nuisances as the Victual Brothers. This group was the chief beneficiary of the (+) Peace of Stralsund, signed with Waldemar IV of Denmark. Its "kontore" were found in Bremen, Novgorod, and London, as well as at its administrative center, (*) Luebeck. For 10 points, identify this German-dominated association of trading towns which controlled Northern European shipping in the late medieval period. ANSWER: Hanseatic League [or Hansa ; or Hanse ] 
8. One attempt to end this period saw the deposition of Benedict XIII and Gregory XII in favor of Alexander V, but it failed when the former two refused to recognize the Council of Pisa. This period began when a group of cardinals elected Clement VII at (+) Anagni in opposition to Urban VI after the Avignon Papacy. The council that ended this period issued the decree Sacrosancta , which epitomized the conciliar movement, and excommunicated (*) Jan Hus. For 10 points, name this period ended by the Council of Constance with the election of Martin V that saw two or three rival popes in Western Europe. ANSWER: Western Schism [or Great Western Schism ; prompt on Great Schism before “Western”; do not accept “Great Schism of 1054”; do not accept “East-West Schism”] 
9. This country's imperial ambitions led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (+) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer (*) Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
10. It isn’t a Punic War, but this war’s final days featured the “Hannibal war” involving Hannibal Sehested. During it, the battle of Rocroi was won by a man known as "le Great Conde." This war’s peace terms gave Alsace back to France in a treaty negotiated by Cardinal (+) Mazarin. While fighting at the Lech River during the Battle of Rain, the Count of Tilly died in it, and an opposing ruler perished during the battle of (*) Lutzen. For 10 points, name this European war whose heroes included Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus, and which was ended by the Peace of Westphalia. ANSWER: Thirty Years War 
11. A politician from this state served as commissioner of Major League Baseball during Jackie Robinson's integration. Another politician from this state hosted a political talk show called Meet the Veep and was Vice-President Alben Barkley. Abolitionist Cassius (+) Clay was a native of this state, which was represented in the Senate by Richard Mentor Johnson and (*) Henry Clay. This state was represented in the Senate by Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Bunning, who was succeeded by Rand Paul. For 10 points, name this state, which was settled via trails blazed by Daniel Boone. ANSWER: Kentucky 
12. The "New Covenant" was proposed as an alternative to this program. Only two of the (+) ten proposed bills in this program were signed into law, largely because Bob Dole could not push them through the Senate. The namesake (*) document outlining this program was written mostly by Dick Armey and signed by every Republican challenger for the House of Representatives. For 10 points, name this proposed legislative program credited for the large Republican gains in the 1994 Congressional elections. ANSWER: Contract with America 
13. Charles VI of France sent some equipment for playing this sport to Henry V in both real life and the Shakespeare play. France's Louis X was the first recorded builder of indoor (+) courts for playing this sport; one such court was the location of a meeting of the (*) Third Estate which pledged not to dissolve the National Assembly until a constitution was written. For 10 points, name this sport whose later innovations included the introduction of a net over which players hit balls with rackets. ANSWER: tennis 
14. Kitchener refused to let this leader serve in France despite his qualifications as a pilot that he used to form "The King's Flight." This leader's wife had an affair with the German Ambassador Joachim von (+) Ribbentrop, leading to FBI suspicions that this ruler was a Nazi sympathizer, for which he was sent to the Bahamas. The Church of England and prime minister Stanley Baldwin frowned on this ruler's affair with a (*) divorced American socialite named Wallis Simpson, but he could not rule without the "support of the woman" he loved. For 10 points, name this British monarch who became the only one to abdicate the throne in 1936. ANSWER: Edward VIII of England [or Edward Albert Christian George Andrew Patrick David ; prompt on Edward ] 
15. The nephew of this structure's designated occupant, Hemiunu, was in charge of its construction, which was not carried out by (+) slaves of the second leader of the Fourth Dynasty. This structure was constructed for (*) Khufu, or Cheops, as a tomb. For 10 points, name the oldest and only extant member of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, located near the Nile River in Egypt. ANSWER: Great Pyramid of Giza [or Pyramid of Giza or Pyramid of Cheops or Pyramid of Khufu ] 
16. The death of this group's member Fred Hampton led to a "Declaration of War" by the Weather Underground. They partnered with St. Augustine's Church to begin their "Free (+) Breakfast for Children" program. This group included guarantees for an education "that exposes the true nature of this decadent American society" as part of its Ten-Point Platform. This group's honorary prime minister was (*) Stokely Carmichael, and an early leader was Eldridge Cleaver. For 10 points, name this militant black power group started in 1966 in Oakland by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale. ANSWER: Black Panther s [or Black Panther Party for Self-Defense] 
17. Richard Feynman claimed that years of revisions in this value proceeded too slowly due to researcher bias in favor of its first measurement. Gerald Holton accused the scientist who measured this value of (+) fraudulently excluding data. The experiment that determined this quantity used a setup involving parallel plates and an atomizer. After using the terminal velocity to find mass, this quantity was calculated by balancing the (*) electric and gravitational fields. For 10 points, name this quantity found by the Millikan oil-drop experiment to be 1.6 times ten to the negative nineteen coulombs. ANSWER: elementary charge [or charge of an electron ] 
18. Over one hundred soldiers escaped from this state's Libby Prison during the Civil War. This was the state where J.E.B. Stuart died at the Battle of Yellow Tavern. Ulysses S. Grant deeply regretted the high casualties he suffered attacking fortified Confederate positions at (+) Cold Harbor here. The Overland and Wilderness Campaigns were fought in this state, as was the siege of (*) Petersburg and the Battle of Chancellorsville. For 10 points, name this site of both Battles of Bull Run, as well as the surrender at Appomattox and the Confederate capital of Richmond. ANSWER: Commonwealth of Virginia 
19. The 37th clause of this document concerned the nature of inheritance involving a "fee-farm." This document also discussed the removal of fish-weirs and put forth restriction on the levying of (+) scutage. This document also created a committee of Lords, which was in line with this document's general trends of limiting the power of the (*) monarchy. This document also codified the right of habeas corpus and was signed at Runnymede. For 10 points, identify this 1215 document signed by King John of England. ANSWER: Magna Carta 
20. Two women with this first name agreed to exchange Robert of Gloucester for a ruler captured at the Battle of Winchester. A queen of this name was supported by an alliance with David I of Scotland, who was defeated fighting on her behalf at the Battle of the Standard. Holy Roman Emperor (+) Henry IV walked to Canossa Castle, which was owned by a woman with this name. William the Conqueror's Flemish wife had this name, as did the chosen heir of (*) Henry I of England after the White Ship disaster. For 10 points, give this first name of the queen who fought King Stephen in the Anarchy. ANSWER: Matilda [or Maud e] 
21. Environmentalists prevented Transneft from building an oil pipeline near this body of water, whose northern tip lies near a railroad nicknamed “the BAM.” The highest point in this body is Mount Zhima, located on its island of Olkhon. Exiles from the (+) Decembrist revolt were sent to Irkutsk, near this lake. This lake is home to nerpa seal and golomyanka fish, and it feeds the Angara river at its southern end. Twenty percent of the (*) world’s river and lakewater is in this lake. For 10 points, name this lake in southwestern Russia, the deepest in the world. ANSWER: Lake Baikal 
22. Friedrich Nietzsche attacked this man for limiting the Dionysian element of culture and promoting a destructive rationalism. He fought at Potidaea according to one character in Laches. He claims he eschewed public life during the reign of the (+) Thirty Tyrants in a speech where he also compares himself to a gadfly rousing his city from lethargy. That speech was recorded by his most famous (*) pupil in the Apology. For 10 points, name this philosopher condemned to drinking hemlock for corrupting the youth of Athens, who was the teacher of Plato. ANSWER: Socrates 
23. A life of this ruler was written by the bishop of Caesarea, Eusebius. This leader secured his power after defeating Licinius, with whom he had earlier jointly issued an edict. That edict issued by this ruler improved the state of (+) religious toleration in his territories. This leader was betrayed by but defeated both the father and son, (*) Maximian and Maxentius. This leader was inspired to paint the chi-ro symbol on his men's shields at the Battle of Milvian Bridge. For 10 points, name this first Christian Roman Emperor who renamed Istanbul for himself. ANSWER: Constantine the Great [or Constantine I ; or Flavius Valerius Constantinus ; prompt on Constantine ; prompt on Constantinus ] 
24. This song attacks two phrases of George H. W. Bush with the lines, “We’ve got a thousand points of light for the homeless man,” and “We’ve got a kinder, gentler machine gun hand.” Earlier, the singer describes “a woman in the night with a baby in her hand” and laments, (+) “There’s one more kid that’ll never go to school, never get to fall in love, never get to be cool.” The singer begins by noting, “There’s (*) colors on the street: red, white, and blue.” For 10 points, name this Neil Young song that instructs the listener to “keep on” performing the title musical action. ANSWER: “ Rockin’ in the Free World ” 
25. While working on the Rogers Commission investigating the Challenger explosion, this man demonstrated the fragility of the (+) O-rings by dunking one into a cup of ice water. This man won the Nobel prize along with Tomonaga and Schwinger for his work on (*) quantum electrodynamics. For 10 points, what Cal Tech physicist is most famous for eponymous diagrams that show how subatomic particles interact and his colorful lifestyle chronicled in his autobiography whose title asks “Surely You’re Joking.” ANSWER: Richard Phillips Feynman 
26. In December 2011 a complaint about his company's attempt to open a South Carolina plant while in a dispute with its (+) Machinists union was withdrawn. It has announced plans to close its (*) Wichita facilities despite Kansas lawmakers' help in securing a refueling tanker contract from the military. A new product from this company uses composite materials in its fuselage and recently entered service at All Nippon Airways. For 10 points, name this maker of the 787 Dreamliner plane. ANSWER: The Boeing Company 
27. One of this player's nicknames was created after Jack Dunn offered him a contract after seeing him play for less than an hour. This player ranks third all-time in walks and second all-time in career (+) on-base percentage, and hit a memorable home run in Wrigley Field against Charlie Root in the 1932 World Series, before which he allegedly (*) called his shot. Roger Maris broke one of this man’s single-season records. For 10 points, identify this baseball legend who hit 714 home runs, many during his time with the Yankees. ANSWER: George Herman "Babe" Ruth 
28. This man irked his country’s Centre Party by restricting speech with the Kanzelparagraph , and appealed to Russia with the failed Reinsurance Treaty. This predecessor of Leo von Caprivi and introducer of the (+) Three Emperors’ League saw his boss take a new title at a ceremony in another country’s Hall of Mirrors. He denounced the use of “speeches and majorities” as “the great mistake of 1848 and 1849” in his (*) “iron and blood” speech, describing his warlike political approach under Wilhelm I. For 10 points, name this “Iron Chancellor” who unified Germany. ANSWER: Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck , Duke of Lauenburg] 
29. One novel by this man describes Tamina’s experience in a colony of children that she reaches after Bibi and Hugo fail to recover letters from (+) Prague. That novel by this man also discusses the feeling of litost through the story of a student’s romance with Kristyna. Another novel by this man includes Sabina, who is obsessed with the symbolism of a bowler hat, and the professor Franz, who dies in a march on the Cambodian border. That novel uses the story of (*) Tomas and Tereza to describe the title condition. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. ANSWER: Milan Kundera 
30. This man was smeared by the Hennings Report, which was supported by this man's opponent William Benton. One of this man's claims was found to be a "fraud and hoax" by the (+) Tydings Committee. This man lost support when he was attacked by Joseph Welch during the Army Hearings, and six Senators supported Margaret Chase Smith's "Declaration of Conscience" speech given against this man and his actions. This man's (*) "Enemies from Within" speech in Wheeling, West Virginia, claimed he had a list of 205 names. For 10 points, name this man who claimed the State Department had been infiltrated, which sparked a namesake Communist witch hunt in the 1950s. ANSWER: Joseph Raymond McCarthy 
31. During one battle of this war, the expression "thin red line" was coined to describe the Highland Brigade. One group of participants in that battle of this war missed an opportunity to attack an opposing force as it passed through the (+) Causeway Heights. Following an order from Lord Raglan, Lord Cardigan led the Charge of the (*) Light Brigade at the Battle of Balaclava in this war. For 10 points, name this war that took place mostly on the namesake eastern European peninsula in the 1850s. ANSWER: Crimean War 
32. During the reign of Diocletian, items such as the "follis" and "argenteus" were used for this purpose. Julius Caesar standardized the weight of the "aureus," a (+) golden item of this type, and other long-used ones included the "sesterces" and the (*) "denarius." For 10 points, the heads of emperors were often depicted on what objects in Roman culture, with which one could purchase slaves or fermented fish sauce? ANSWER: Roman coins [or Roman money ; or Roman currency ; etc] 
33. This man and his son Godfrey worked to bring the Winter Olympics to Lake Placid, New York, though this founder of the American Metric Bureau eventually lost his job after staunchly supporting the Lake Placid Club's exclusion of Jews. This inventor of the hanging file folder had middle names honoring a (+) Hungarian freedom fighter. Biographies of this man may be found at 020.92 in the (*) classification he developed, which uses the 200s for religion and the 600s for technology. For 10 points, name this man who first organized the New York State Library under his namesake "decimal system." ANSWER: Melvil Louis Kossuth Dewey 
34. This man formulated a theory that emotions were responses subsequent to physiological stimuli, which he names with Carl (+) Lange. He claimed that religion was useful, if possibly not true, in The Varieties of Religious Experience , and he claimed that an idea's veracity was based on its (*) "cash value." He wrote the textbook Principles of Psychology . For 10 points, name this author of Pragmatism , the brother of a famous novelist. ANSWER: illiam W James [or Carl Lange before it is read] 
35. The Arbuckle Mountains are located in this state, and it contains the Gypsum Hills, which are sometimes called the Glass Hills due to their appearance. David Payne and William (+) Couch were two people who attempted to colonize this state, which was formerly designated as the (*) "Indian territory." The Arkansas River forms Zink Lake in its city of Tulsa, and its namesake territory was opened to a land run in 1889. For 10 points, name this state where a 1995 terrorist attack by Timothy McVeigh destroyed a building in the namesake capital. ANSWER: Oklahoma 
36. This man once stated that he was “not in the least sorry” if his report from Buchenwald offended anyone. He profiled migrant workers in the work Harvest of Shame. This man’s subordinates included the author of Berlin Diary and The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, (+) William Shirer, and this man later gained fame for his critical “Report on Senator Joseph (*) McCarthy”. For 10 points, name this CBS anchor and host of Hear it Now, who often ended his wartime broadcasts with “good night, and good luck”. ANSWER: Edward Roscoe Murrow 
37. One play from this literary movement centers on a meeting between Jean Harlow and Billy the Kid. That play is The Beard by Michael McClure. Turtle Island is a Pulitzer Prize-winning poetry collection by Gary Snyder, a member of this movement. Promoted by Lawrence Ferlinghetti, (+) Naked Lunch and The Dharma Bums are novels produced by members of this movement. Fictionalizations of this movement’s writers include Carlo Marx and Sal (*) Paradise, both of whom appear in On the Road. For 10 points, name this counterculture movement led by Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac. ANSWER: Beat movement [or Beat Generation; or Beat niks] 
38. During the Manhattan Project, this physicist along with Hans Bethe created equations to calculate the yield of a nuclear bomb. This man provided a quantum explanation for Landau’s theory of superfluidity. While working on the Rogers Commission investigating the (+) Challenger explosion, this man demonstrated the fragility of the O-rings by dunking one into a cup of ice water. This man won the Nobel prize along with Tomonaga and Schwinger for his work on (*) quantum electrodynamics. For 10 points, what Cal Tech physicist is most famous for his colorful lifestyle chronicled in his autobiography whose title asks “Surely You’re Joking?” ANSWER: Richard Phillips Feynman 
39. One of the men from this region who ruled over Sicily was Robert Guiscard. A ruler of this place signed the treaty of St. Clair-sur-Epte with Charles the Simple, giving (+) Rollo control of this place. A man often inaccurately called Robert the Devil was a duke of this region, whose son succeeded Harold (*) Godwinson as ruler of England. It was named for its settlement by Vikings. For 10 points, name this region, the home to William the Conqueror. ANSWER: Duchy of Normandy 
40. A character in this novel is appalled when an invitation to his home is taken seriously. Ronny Heaslop decides not to marry a character in this novel who refuses to testify at a trial. The "Mosque," (+) "Cave," and "Temple" sections of this book are devoted to the three segments of the Indian climate. This novel criticizes both (*) British and Muslim presence in India as alien and suggests that only Hindus understand the country. For 10 points, name this anti-colonialist novel in which Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of rape, written by E. M. Forster. ANSWER: A Passage to India 
41. The Prince Soubise (SOO-bee-zuh) was decisively defeated during this war at the Battle of Rossbach, which the victorious side followed up by crushing the forces of Charles of Lorraine at the Battle of Leuthen. This war was ended by the Treaty of (+) Hubertusburg, and it followed a period called the Diplomatic Revolution in which France allied with Austria and Britain with (*) Prussia. For 10 points, name this conflict that confirmed the taking of Silesia by Prussia in the earlier War of the Austrian Succession and lasted from 1756 to 1763. ANSWER: Seven Years' War 
42. This man spent his last years as the president of the then-Washington College. He assumed his highest command following Joseph Johnston's wounding at the Battle of Seven Pines. This general placed James (+) Longstreet on Marye's Heights during a battle in which his forces repulsed Ambrose Burnside's assault across the Rappahannock River. This winner of the Battle of (*) Fredericksburg and commander of the Army of Northern Virginia ordered Pickett's Charge at Gettysburg. For 10 points, what Confederate general surrendered at Appomattox Courthouse? ANSWER: Robert Edward Lee 
43. An island in this river is named for army surplus magnate Francis Bannerman. The widest portion of this river is known as the Tappan Zee. Early colonists referred to this body of water as the “North River” and the Delaware as the (+) “South River.” This river’s highest source is Lake Tear of the Clouds, which is on the southwest slope of Mount Marcy. The world’s busiest motor vehicle bridge, the (*) George Washington, spans this river. For 10 points, name this river, which rises in the Adirondack Mountains and forms the border between New York City and New Jersey. ANSWER: Hudson River [or Great Mohegan ; or North River until mentioned] 
