1. A party with this name nominated the editor of The New Republic for President. A political party with this name surpassed thirty percent of the vote in ten states but only won Wisconsin in 1924. An earlier party with this name splintered off from the Republican Party in 1912, and was nicknamed "Bull Moose." For 10 points, give the shared name of several political parties of the early 20th century, including the one that nominated Theodore Roosevelt to return to office. ANSWER: Progressive Party 
2. This man painted a number of depictions of children and young women such as Crossing the Pasture for the same publication that printed such works of his as Thanksgiving in Camp during the Civil War. Besides his work for Harper’s Weekly, this man also painted such scenes as children playing a game and a black sailor in a small boat being menaced by sharks as a storm approaches. For 10 points, name this American landscape and seascape painter of Snap-the-Whip and The Gulf Stream. ANSWER: Winslow Homer 
3. The first member of this house passed the title Lord of Annandale to his descendants. Edward of Balliol advanced on the forces of David II, who was a member of this house. The hero of the Battle of Bannockburn who signed the Treaty of Northampton with England was a member of this house. For 10 points, name this royal house that includes Robert I of Scotland. ANSWER: Bruce family [or House of Bruce ; or Clan Bruce ] 
4. A conversation with Eadward Muybridge prompted this man to develop his Kinetoscope. He opposed George Westinghouse’s promotion of alternating current, advocated by this man's former employee Nikola Tesla. The inventor of the stock ticker and the phonograph, for 10 points, name this “Wizard of Menlo Park”, the inventor of the incandescent light bulb. ANSWER: Thomas Alva Edison 
5. This present-day state was home to a Russian settlement at Fort Ross. In a police department in this state, seventy members of the CRASH squad were implicated in the Ramparts Scandal. Land in this present-day state was the destination of the Donner Party. This present-day state was home to the short-lived Bear Flag Republic and was admitted to the Union in the Compromise of 1850. For 10 points, name this state that was the destination of the gold-seeking "forty-niners." ANSWER: California 
6. This leader founded the League of Oppressed Peoples and worked for the anti-French underground. This leader's General Giap tricked the French at the siege of Dien Bien Phu. The Seventeenth Parallel divided this leader's country. This leader launched the Tet Offensive and was supported by the Viet Cong. For 10 points, name this Vietnamese communist Leader. ANSWER: Ho Chi Minh [or Nguyen Sinh Cung; or Nguyen Tat Thanh; or Nguyen Ai Quoc] 
7. A person investigated for this crime was captured via Operation Kindred Spirit. Benjamin Netanyahu continues to try to negotiate the release of another person convicted of it, named Jonathan Pollard. Wen Ho Lee was imprisoned for nine months for this crime. Irving Kaufman presided over the trial of two people convicted of this crime, who were convicted alongside Morton Sorbell and Klaus Fuchs. For 10 points, name this crime for which Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were executed. ANSWER: espionage [or spying ; prompt on treason ] 
8. This man considered himself the "first servant of the state." His most disastrous military loss was at Kunersdorf, but four years later, by the Peace of Hubertusberg, he maintained possession of a territory he had earlier acquired from Austria via the 1745 Peace of Dresden. He had invaded that territory, Silesia, after contesting Charles VI's Pragmatic Sanction. For 10 points, name this Prussian "enlightened despot" who ruled from 1740 until 1786. ANSWER: Frederick II [or Frederick the Great ; prompt on Frederick ] 
9. It's not near Spain, but the city of Gibraltar on this body of water was sacked by Henry Morgan in 1669. In 2004, this body of water experienced a huge duckweed infestation. Alonso de Ojeda was the first European to reach this body of water and saw that the natives lived in houses on stilts. Ojeda was thus reminded of Venice and named the region surrounding this body of water "little Venice." For 10 points, name this large bay or lake on the northern coast of Venezuela. ANSWER: Lake Maracaibo [or Lago de Maracaibo ] 
10. Henry le Despenser defeated one side in this event at the Battle of North Walsham. John Ball and Jack Straw were two leaders of this, though its most famous leader was killed by William Wolworth. One of the grievances that caused this event was the Statute of Laborers. For 10 points, name this 1381 rebellion led by Wat Tyler. ANSWER: Peasants' Revolt [or Wat Tyler 's Rebellion before mention; or Great Rising ] 
Quarter Two
1. The man who carried out this event wrote the poem “I am Going to the Lordy” before being executed. After this event, Alexander Graham Bell devised a metal detector to try to overcome its effects. Its perpetrator shouted “I am a Stalwart! Arthur is president now!” For 10 points, identify this 1881 event in which a disgruntled office seeker killed the twentieth U.S. President. ANSWER: assassination of James Garfield [accept synonyms for “assassination”] BONUS: What Secretary of War and son of a former president was with Garfield and who was also at the World’s Fair when McKinley was shot? ANSWER: obert Todd R Lincoln [prompt on Lincoln ] 
2. This event featured Glenn Frank begging people to leave to avoid “a slaughter.” A photo taken during this event shows Mary Ann Vecchio kneeling and screaming over the dead Jeffrey Miller. It began a few days after Richard Nixon announced an invasion of Cambodia. For 10 points, name this May 4, 1970, event in which four students were killed by the National Guard at an Ohio university. ANSWER: Kent State shootings BONUS: Nixon had asked what White House Chief of Staff about procedures to spy on antiwar protesters? This man resigned in 1973 during the Watergate scandal. ANSWER: Harry Robbins “Bob” Haldeman 
3. Deodora de Fonseca established a republic in this country, whose first emperor called for independence in the "Cry of Ipiranga." Under the Duke of Caxias, it joined forces with Uruguay and Argentina in the War of the Triple Alliance. Slavery was outlawed here with the Golden Law of Emperor Dom Pedro II. Discovered by Pedro Cabral, it gained its independence from Portugal in the 1820s. For 10 points, name this largest South American country. ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil ] BONUS: Name the leader who came to power in Brazil in 1930 and passed many pro-labor laws. He ended the so-called "coffee with milk" politics and established the Estado Novo. ANSWER: Getulio Dorneles Vargas 
4. This leader, whose navy won the battle of (CHESH-muh) Cesme in the south, wrote a text called the “Instruction” to provide ideas for liberal legal reform, despite converting Ukraine to serfdom and adding to its size via the last partition of Poland. This suppressor of Pugachev’s Cossack rebellion wrote letters to Voltaire, who praised her. For 10 points, name this Russian empress of the Enlightenment era. ANSWER: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II ; or Yekaterina Alekseyevna] BONUS: Catherine was born and raised in what defunct European country, whose territory unified with that of the Elector of Brandenburg in 1701? ANSWER: Prussia 
5. Acting Secretary Levi Lincoln testified in this case, and Samuel Chase had given a legal argument for a similar case five years earlier in Calder v. Bull . This case revolved around the subject's issuance of writs of mandamus to Jefferson's Secretary of State following the Midnight Appointments, and in this case the Supreme Court eventually declared a clause in the Judiciary Act of 1789 unconstitutional. For 10 points, name this Supreme Court case that established judicial review. ANSWER: Marbury v. Madison BONUS: Marbury had been appointed to what position in the District of Columbia, a judge on minor civil or criminal cases? ANSWER: justice of the peace 
6. This man parodied William Jennings Bryan by warning of a "Cross of Iron" in his "The Chance for Peace" speech. This President attacked unchecked spending and told of the dangers of the growing influence of the military-industrial complex in his farewell address. This President's namesake doctrine provided for aid to Middle Eastern nations in response to the growing danger of communism. For 10 points, name this President who defeated Adlai E. Stevenson in 1952 and was Supreme Commander of Allied troops in World War II. ANSWER: Dwight David Eisenhower BONUS: Eisenhower invoked his namesake doctrine in Operation Blue Bat, which consisted of a mission to this nation in response to calls for aid from its President, Camille Chamoun. ANSWER: Lebanon [or Lebanese Republic; or Al Jumhuriyah al Lubnan iyah] 
7. Kimba Wood and Zoe Baird's nominations to this position were derailed in the "Nannygate" scandal. A holder of this position ordered the U.S. relatives of Elian Gonzalez to return him to his father in Cuba. Robert Kennedy held this position during his brother's administration. For 10 points, Janet Reno served during the Clinton Administration in what position that heads the Justice Department? ANSWER: United States Attorney General BONUS: Janet Reno was criticized by some for her handling of the standoff between federal agents and David Koresh's Branch Davidian cult at a compound in what Texas city? ANSWER: Waco 
8. This man was crowned as an early act of the Council of Fifty. Martin Harris claimed Charles Anthon authenticated a work by this man. While this man was living in Harmony, Pennsylvania, Urim and Thummim allowed this man to complete a task. This man helped establish a city to escape extradition to Missouri, and that died during a jail riot in that city of Nauvoo, Illinois. For 10 points, name this man that founded a religion after translating "reformed Egyptian" engravings on golden plates to create the Book of Mormon. ANSWER: Joseph Smith Jr BONUS: According to Joseph Smith, the first two parts of the Book of Mormon were written by this prophet, the namesake of a group of settlers annihilated by the Lamanites. ANSWER: Nephi 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: US FOREIGN RELATIONS QUESTION: In which present-day country did the U.S... 1. Fight an unpopular war during most of the 1960s? ANSWER: Socialist Republic of Vietnam [or Cong hoa xa hoi chu nghia Viet Nam ; or North Vietnam ; do not accept or prompt on "South Vietnam"] 2. Execute Operation Eagle Claw in a failed attempt to rescue hostages during a 444-day crisis? ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Iran [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran ] 3. Establish friendly relations during Richard Nixon's 1972 visit? ANSWER: People's Republic of China [or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo] 4. Sponsor the Contras in their fight against the Sandinista regime? ANSWER: Republic of Nicaragua 5. Bungle a CIA-planned hit on Patrice Lumumba? ANSWER: Democratic Republic of the Congo [or DRC ; prompt on Congo ; do not accept "Republic of the Congo"] 6. Intervene in 1983 after a coup against Maurice Bishop? ANSWER: Grenada 7. End a three-year war by organizing the Dayton Accords? ANSWER: Bosnia -Herzegovina 8. Join in targeting with an international sanctions movement in the 1980s, over the veto of President Reagan? ANSWER: Republic of South Africa 
CATEGORY: ROMAN EMPERORS QUESTION: Which Roman emperor... 1. Built a namesake wall in Britain? ANSWER: Caesar Trajanus Hadrian us Augustus [or Publius Aelius Adrian us] 2. Had a name meaning "little boot" and was considered insane? ANSWER: Caligula [or Gaius Caesar Germanicus] 3. Was the last "Good Emperor" and wrote the Stoic work Meditations ? ANSWER: Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus [or Marcus Annius Verus ] 4. Started the Flavian dynasty and was succeeded by Titus? ANSWER: Caesar Vespasian us Augustus [or Titus Flavius Vespasian us] 5. Created the Tetrarchy? ANSWER: Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletian us [or Diocles ] 6. Gained his nickname from his rejection of Christianity? ANSWER: Julian the Apostate [or Julian us Apostata; Flavius Claudius Julian us] 7. Like Trajan, fought a war against the Dacians? ANSWER: Caesar Domitian us Augustus [or Titus Flavius Domitian us] 8. Was the last Emperor of the Western Empire? ANSWER: Flavius Momyllus Romulus Augustulus 
CATEGORY: MEDIEVAL JAPAN QUESTION: In medieval Japan... 1. Which agents specialized in espionage and assassination? ANSWER: ninja s [or shinobi ] 2. Which warriors fought by a code of honor known as bushido? ANSWER: samurai s 3. What group served as military dictators during the Kamakura and Muromachi periods? ANSWER: shogun s 4. Which men erved as the leaders of the Shinto religion but were secondary in power to the shoguns? ANSWER: emperor s 5. What group acted as regional feudal lords and hired samurai? ANSWER: daimyo s 6. Which warriors were derided for fighting without masters? ANSWER: ronin s 7. Which figures used naginata in battle and were sworn-in members of sects like the Tendai? ANSWER: Buddhist warrior monk s [or sohei ] 8. Which European country was the first to establish trade after sailors arrived in 1542? ANSWER: Portugal 
Quarter Four
1. The Ludlow Amendment voiced the concerns of this movement. The Nye Committee fueled the anger of this movement by investigating several "merchants of death." Heavyweights in this movement included Bull Moose running mate and California senator Hiram Johnson, noted "lion" and Idaho senator William (+) Borah, and several members of the "Irreconcilables." Woodrow Wilson's re-election slogan pandered to people in this (*) movement, who later blocked the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles. For 10 points, name this movement opposed to U.S. participation in alliances or wars. ANSWER: American isolation ists [or America First movement; or American pacifist s; or American anti-war activists; or word forms] 
2. A document central to this policy noted that, “the greatest danger that can befall us is that we shall allow ourselves to become like those with whom we are coping.” An anonymous article in (+) Foreign Affairs magazine and the “Long Telegram” supported this strategy and were written by its formulator, George (*) Kennan. This policy was put into action with the Truman Doctrine. For 10 points, name this foreign policy strategy of the United States in the 1940s and early 50s that sought to stifle the expansion of the Soviet Union’s influence. ANSWER: Containment [prompt on Truman Doctrine until it is read] 
3. This politician turned down Dewey's first invitation to be his running mate but accepted it to run in (+) 1948. He led a namesake Commission to investigate the assassination of (*) JFK. This judge oversaw the court that decreed law officers must read criminal suspects their rights in the Miranda case. This man read the unanimous opinion in his court that ruled unconstitutional "separate but equal." For 10 points, name this Chief Justice during Brown v. Board of Education . ANSWER: Earl Warren 
4. After this event, several states passed laws requiring identification in order to buy ammonium nitrate. The ringleader of this (+) attack reportedly chose his target because an alternative had a florist's shop on the first floor. Terry Nichols collaborated on this attack, which commemorated incidents at (*) Ruby Ridge and Waco. For 10 points, name this attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in a state capital, masterminded by Timothy McVeigh. ANSWER: Oklahoma City bombing [or obvious equivalents] 
5. In The Literal Meaning of Genesis , this writer contradicted contemporaries who practiced astrology. This writer describes how to teach Scripture in On Christian Doctrine . He detailed in one work an instance where being in the company of sinners influenced him to (+) steal pears. This writer proposed in another work written shortly after the sack of Rome that that the community of believers was an entity separate from the (*) Earthly City. That work is City of God . This man detailed his youthful belief in Manichaeism and conversion to Christianity in Confessions . For 10 points, name this Christian theologian and Church Doctor, a Bishop of Hippo. ANSWER: Augustine of Hippo [or Saint Augustine ; or Blessed Augustine ; accept Saint Austin ; accept Saint Augoustinos ] 
6. A hero of this event was featured on the poster "above and beyond the call of duty," after manning a machine gun despite only being trained as a cook. This event, in which Dorie Miller became famous, was followed by an incident in which a crash-landed (+) pilot received aid from three locals on the island of Niihau. A fourteen-part message was unable to be transcribed before this event, during which over a thousand people died in the explosion of the (*) Arizona. For 10 points, name this event after which Franklin Roosevelt proclaimed that December 7, 1941 "will live in infamy." ANSWER: Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor 
7. The addition of copper hulls to ships in this navy provoked mutinies at Spithead and Nore. The "Glorious First of June" was a triumph for this navy. This navy won the Battle of Cape St. Vincent off the Portuguese coast and forced Tsar Paul to abandon the League of Armed Neutrality at the Battle of (+) Copenhagen. The quota system and impressment supplied sailors to this dominant maritime power in the (*) Napoleonic Wars. For 10 points, identify this navy that triumphed over the French at the Battle of Trafalgar, under the leadership of Horatio Nelson. ANSWER: the British Navy [or the English navy; or the navy of the nited ingdom; or the U K Royal Navy] 
8. In this election year, one nominee ran with former football player Jack Kemp. This election was the first time the Green Party ran with (+) advocate Ralph Nader, and the second time Ross Perot ran for the office. The winner of this election was was later (*) impeached for perjury related to an affair with Monica Lewinsky. For 10 points, name this election in which Bob Dole lost to Bill Clinton. ANSWER: United States Election of 1996 
9. This President appointed Louis A. Johnson as Secretary of Defense, and his administration authorized a strategic document written by Paul Nitze known as "NSC-68." The (+) Taft-Hartley Act was passed over this President's veto. This President had a sign on his desk stating that "the buck stops here!," and he used the slogan (*) "Fair Deal" for his domestic platform. His "doctrine" attempted to keep Communism out of Greece and Turkey. For 10 points, name this subject of an incorrect newspaper headline claiming that he lost the 1948 Presidential election to Thomas Dewey. ANSWER: Harry S. Truman 
10. This group long failed to eliminate such nuisances as the Victual Brothers. This group was the chief beneficiary of the (+) Peace of Stralsund, signed with Waldemar IV of Denmark. Its "kontore" were found in Bremen, Novgorod, and London, as well as at its administrative center, (*) Luebeck. For 10 points, identify this German-dominated association of trading towns which controlled Northern European shipping in the late medieval period. ANSWER: Hanseatic League [or Hansa ; or Hanse ] 
11. One attempt to end this period saw the deposition of Benedict XIII and Gregory XII in favor of Alexander V, but it failed when the former two refused to recognize the Council of Pisa. This period began when a group of cardinals elected Clement VII at (+) Anagni in opposition to Urban VI after the Avignon Papacy. The council that ended this period issued the decree Sacrosancta , which epitomized the conciliar movement, and excommunicated (*) Jan Hus. For 10 points, name this period ended by the Council of Constance with the election of Martin V that saw two or three rival popes in Western Europe. ANSWER: Western Schism [or Great Western Schism ; prompt on Great Schism before “Western”; do not accept “Great Schism of 1054”; do not accept “East-West Schism”] 
12. This country's imperial ambitions led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (+) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer (*) Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
13. It isn’t a Punic War, but this war’s final days featured the “Hannibal war” involving Hannibal Sehested. During it, the battle of Rocroi was won by a man known as "le Great Conde." This war’s peace terms gave Alsace back to France in a treaty negotiated by Cardinal (+) Mazarin. While fighting at the Lech River during the Battle of Rain, the Count of Tilly died in it, and an opposing ruler perished during the battle of (*) Lutzen. For 10 points, name this European war whose heroes included Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus, and which was ended by the Peace of Westphalia. ANSWER: Thirty Years War 
14. A politician from this state served as commissioner of Major League Baseball during Jackie Robinson's integration. Another politician from this state hosted a political talk show called Meet the Veep and was Vice-President Alben Barkley. Abolitionist Cassius (+) Clay was a native of this state, which was represented in the Senate by Richard Mentor Johnson and (*) Henry Clay. This state was represented in the Senate by Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Bunning, who was succeeded by Rand Paul. For 10 points, name this state, which was settled via trails blazed by Daniel Boone. ANSWER: Kentucky 
15. The "New Covenant" was proposed as an alternative to this program. Only two of the (+) ten proposed bills in this program were signed into law, largely because Bob Dole could not push them through the Senate. The namesake (*) document outlining this program was written mostly by Dick Armey and signed by every Republican challenger for the House of Representatives. For 10 points, name this proposed legislative program credited for the large Republican gains in the 1994 Congressional elections. ANSWER: Contract with America 
16. Charles VI of France sent some equipment for playing this sport to Henry V in both real life and the Shakespeare play. France's Louis X was the first recorded builder of indoor (+) courts for playing this sport; one such court was the location of a meeting of the (*) Third Estate which pledged not to dissolve the National Assembly until a constitution was written. For 10 points, name this sport whose later innovations included the introduction of a net over which players hit balls with rackets. ANSWER: tennis 
17. Kitchener refused to let this leader serve in France despite his qualifications as a pilot that he used to form "The King's Flight." This leader's wife had an affair with the German Ambassador Joachim von (+) Ribbentrop, leading to FBI suspicions that this ruler was a Nazi sympathizer, for which he was sent to the Bahamas. The Church of England and prime minister Stanley Baldwin frowned on this ruler's affair with a (*) divorced American socialite named Wallis Simpson, but he could not rule without the "support of the woman" he loved. For 10 points, name this British monarch who became the only one to abdicate the throne in 1936. ANSWER: Edward VIII of England [or Edward Albert Christian George Andrew Patrick David ; prompt on Edward ] 
18. The nephew of this structure's designated occupant, Hemiunu, was in charge of its construction, which was not carried out by (+) slaves of the second leader of the Fourth Dynasty. This structure was constructed for (*) Khufu, or Cheops, as a tomb. For 10 points, name the oldest and only extant member of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, located near the Nile River in Egypt. ANSWER: Great Pyramid of Giza [or Pyramid of Giza or Pyramid of Cheops or Pyramid of Khufu ] 
19. The death of this group's member Fred Hampton led to a "Declaration of War" by the Weather Underground. They partnered with St. Augustine's Church to begin their "Free (+) Breakfast for Children" program. This group included guarantees for an education "that exposes the true nature of this decadent American society" as part of its Ten-Point Platform. This group's honorary prime minister was (*) Stokely Carmichael, and an early leader was Eldridge Cleaver. For 10 points, name this militant black power group started in 1966 in Oakland by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale. ANSWER: Black Panther s [or Black Panther Party for Self-Defense] 
20. Richard Feynman claimed that years of revisions in this value proceeded too slowly due to researcher bias in favor of its first measurement. Gerald Holton accused the scientist who measured this value of (+) fraudulently excluding data. The experiment that determined this quantity used a setup involving parallel plates and an atomizer. After using the terminal velocity to find mass, this quantity was calculated by balancing the (*) electric and gravitational fields. For 10 points, name this quantity found by the Millikan oil-drop experiment to be 1.6 times ten to the negative nineteen coulombs. ANSWER: elementary charge [or charge of an electron ] 
21. Over one hundred soldiers escaped from this state's Libby Prison during the Civil War. This was the state where J.E.B. Stuart died at the Battle of Yellow Tavern. Ulysses S. Grant deeply regretted the high casualties he suffered attacking fortified Confederate positions at (+) Cold Harbor here. The Overland and Wilderness Campaigns were fought in this state, as was the siege of (*) Petersburg and the Battle of Chancellorsville. For 10 points, name this site of both Battles of Bull Run, as well as the surrender at Appomattox and the Confederate capital of Richmond. ANSWER: Commonwealth of Virginia 
22. The 37th clause of this document concerned the nature of inheritance involving a "fee-farm." This document also discussed the removal of fish-weirs and put forth restriction on the levying of (+) scutage. This document also created a committee of Lords, which was in line with this document's general trends of limiting the power of the (*) monarchy. This document also codified the right of habeas corpus and was signed at Runnymede. For 10 points, identify this 1215 document signed by King John of England. ANSWER: Magna Carta 
23. Two women with this first name agreed to exchange Robert of Gloucester for a ruler captured at the Battle of Winchester. A queen of this name was supported by an alliance with David I of Scotland, who was defeated fighting on her behalf at the Battle of the Standard. Holy Roman Emperor (+) Henry IV walked to Canossa Castle, which was owned by a woman with this name. William the Conqueror's Flemish wife had this name, as did the chosen heir of (*) Henry I of England after the White Ship disaster. For 10 points, give this first name of the queen who fought King Stephen in the Anarchy. ANSWER: Matilda [or Maud e] 
24. Environmentalists prevented Transneft from building an oil pipeline near this body of water, whose northern tip lies near a railroad nicknamed “the BAM.” The highest point in this body is Mount Zhima, located on its island of Olkhon. Exiles from the (+) Decembrist revolt were sent to Irkutsk, near this lake. This lake is home to nerpa seal and golomyanka fish, and it feeds the Angara river at its southern end. Twenty percent of the (*) world’s river and lakewater is in this lake. For 10 points, name this lake in southwestern Russia, the deepest in the world. ANSWER: Lake Baikal 
25. Friedrich Nietzsche attacked this man for limiting the Dionysian element of culture and promoting a destructive rationalism. He fought at Potidaea according to one character in Laches. He claims he eschewed public life during the reign of the (+) Thirty Tyrants in a speech where he also compares himself to a gadfly rousing his city from lethargy. That speech was recorded by his most famous (*) pupil in the Apology. For 10 points, name this philosopher condemned to drinking hemlock for corrupting the youth of Athens, who was the teacher of Plato. ANSWER: Socrates 
26. A life of this ruler was written by the bishop of Caesarea, Eusebius. This leader secured his power after defeating Licinius, with whom he had earlier jointly issued an edict. That edict issued by this ruler improved the state of (+) religious toleration in his territories. This leader was betrayed by but defeated both the father and son, (*) Maximian and Maxentius. This leader was inspired to paint the chi-ro symbol on his men's shields at the Battle of Milvian Bridge. For 10 points, name this first Christian Roman Emperor who renamed Istanbul for himself. ANSWER: Constantine the Great [or Constantine I ; or Flavius Valerius Constantinus ; prompt on Constantine ; prompt on Constantinus ] 
27. This song attacks two phrases of George H. W. Bush with the lines, “We’ve got a thousand points of light for the homeless man,” and “We’ve got a kinder, gentler machine gun hand.” Earlier, the singer describes “a woman in the night with a baby in her hand” and laments, (+) “There’s one more kid that’ll never go to school, never get to fall in love, never get to be cool.” The singer begins by noting, “There’s (*) colors on the street: red, white, and blue.” For 10 points, name this Neil Young song that instructs the listener to “keep on” performing the title musical action. ANSWER: “ Rockin’ in the Free World ” 
28. While working on the Rogers Commission investigating the Challenger explosion, this man demonstrated the fragility of the (+) O-rings by dunking one into a cup of ice water. This man won the Nobel prize along with Tomonaga and Schwinger for his work on (*) quantum electrodynamics. For 10 points, what Cal Tech physicist is most famous for eponymous diagrams that show how subatomic particles interact and his colorful lifestyle chronicled in his autobiography whose title asks “Surely You’re Joking.” ANSWER: Richard Phillips Feynman 
29. In December 2011 a complaint about his company's attempt to open a South Carolina plant while in a dispute with its (+) Machinists union was withdrawn. It has announced plans to close its (*) Wichita facilities despite Kansas lawmakers' help in securing a refueling tanker contract from the military. A new product from this company uses composite materials in its fuselage and recently entered service at All Nippon Airways. For 10 points, name this maker of the 787 Dreamliner plane. ANSWER: The Boeing Company 
30. One of this player's nicknames was created after Jack Dunn offered him a contract after seeing him play for less than an hour. This player ranks third all-time in walks and second all-time in career (+) on-base percentage, and hit a memorable home run in Wrigley Field against Charlie Root in the 1932 World Series, before which he allegedly (*) called his shot. Roger Maris broke one of this man’s single-season records. For 10 points, identify this baseball legend who hit 714 home runs, many during his time with the Yankees. ANSWER: George Herman "Babe" Ruth 
31. This man irked his country’s Centre Party by restricting speech with the Kanzelparagraph , and appealed to Russia with the failed Reinsurance Treaty. This predecessor of Leo von Caprivi and introducer of the (+) Three Emperors’ League saw his boss take a new title at a ceremony in another country’s Hall of Mirrors. He denounced the use of “speeches and majorities” as “the great mistake of 1848 and 1849” in his (*) “iron and blood” speech, describing his warlike political approach under Wilhelm I. For 10 points, name this “Iron Chancellor” who unified Germany. ANSWER: Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck , Duke of Lauenburg] 
32. One novel by this man describes Tamina’s experience in a colony of children that she reaches after Bibi and Hugo fail to recover letters from (+) Prague. That novel by this man also discusses the feeling of litost through the story of a student’s romance with Kristyna. Another novel by this man includes Sabina, who is obsessed with the symbolism of a bowler hat, and the professor Franz, who dies in a march on the Cambodian border. That novel uses the story of (*) Tomas and Tereza to describe the title condition. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. ANSWER: Milan Kundera 
33. This man was smeared by the Hennings Report, which was supported by this man's opponent William Benton. One of this man's claims was found to be a "fraud and hoax" by the (+) Tydings Committee. This man lost support when he was attacked by Joseph Welch during the Army Hearings, and six Senators supported Margaret Chase Smith's "Declaration of Conscience" speech given against this man and his actions. This man's (*) "Enemies from Within" speech in Wheeling, West Virginia, claimed he had a list of 205 names. For 10 points, name this man who claimed the State Department had been infiltrated, which sparked a namesake Communist witch hunt in the 1950s. ANSWER: Joseph Raymond McCarthy 
34. During one battle of this war, the expression "thin red line" was coined to describe the Highland Brigade. One group of participants in that battle of this war missed an opportunity to attack an opposing force as it passed through the (+) Causeway Heights. Following an order from Lord Raglan, Lord Cardigan led the Charge of the (*) Light Brigade at the Battle of Balaclava in this war. For 10 points, name this war that took place mostly on the namesake eastern European peninsula in the 1850s. ANSWER: Crimean War 
35. During the reign of Diocletian, items such as the "follis" and "argenteus" were used for this purpose. Julius Caesar standardized the weight of the "aureus," a (+) golden item of this type, and other long-used ones included the "sesterces" and the (*) "denarius." For 10 points, the heads of emperors were often depicted on what objects in Roman culture, with which one could purchase slaves or fermented fish sauce? ANSWER: Roman coins [or Roman money ; or Roman currency ; etc] 
36. This man and his son Godfrey worked to bring the Winter Olympics to Lake Placid, New York, though this founder of the American Metric Bureau eventually lost his job after staunchly supporting the Lake Placid Club's exclusion of Jews. This inventor of the hanging file folder had middle names honoring a (+) Hungarian freedom fighter. Biographies of this man may be found at 020.92 in the (*) classification he developed, which uses the 200s for religion and the 600s for technology. For 10 points, name this man who first organized the New York State Library under his namesake "decimal system." ANSWER: Melvil Louis Kossuth Dewey 
37. This man formulated a theory that emotions were responses subsequent to physiological stimuli, which he names with Carl (+) Lange. He claimed that religion was useful, if possibly not true, in The Varieties of Religious Experience , and he claimed that an idea's veracity was based on its (*) "cash value." He wrote the textbook Principles of Psychology . For 10 points, name this author of Pragmatism , the brother of a famous novelist. ANSWER: illiam W James [or Carl Lange before it is read] 
38. The Arbuckle Mountains are located in this state, and it contains the Gypsum Hills, which are sometimes called the Glass Hills due to their appearance. David Payne and William (+) Couch were two people who attempted to colonize this state, which was formerly designated as the (*) "Indian territory." The Arkansas River forms Zink Lake in its city of Tulsa, and its namesake territory was opened to a land run in 1889. For 10 points, name this state where a 1995 terrorist attack by Timothy McVeigh destroyed a building in the namesake capital. ANSWER: Oklahoma 
