This is page 1 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2015  
Round 6  
First Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. Despite standing a few feet away from him at a Reagan Day dinner, this man said that he  
didn’t know who Trent Franks was. This man overcame a massive deficit to beat Charlie Crist in  
a three-way race in 2010. The family of this ex-Mormon fled the dictatorship of Fulgencio  
Batista (fool-HEN-see-oh bah-TEE-stuh). His delivery of the Republican response to the 2013  
State of the Union address marked the first time the response was given in both English and  
Spanish. For 10 points, name this junior Senator from Florida, a Cuban-American.  
ANSWER: Marco  Rubio   
2. The longest poem in this collection includes descriptions of the battle between the  Bonhomme  
Richard  and the  Serapis  and of the Goliad Massacre. This poetry collection includes “The  
Sleepers” and a poem beginning, “Flood-tide below me! I watch you face to face.” The poet  
sounds his “barbaric yawp” in the final lines of this collection’s longest poem,  Song of Myself.   
For 10 points, name this major poetry collection by Walt Whitman.  
ANSWER:  Leaves of Grass   
3. This hero is tricked into sleeping with a woman whom he rescues from a chamber filled with  
boiling water. This hero defeats the Copper Knight in order to claim a castle called the Dolorous  
Guard. In order to befriend this knight, Galehaut (GAH-lee-oat) decides to surrender his entire  
army. This knight’s affair with Elaine of Corbenic produces his son Galahad. This knight’s  
lengthy affair with Queen Guinevere brings about the fall of King Arthur. For 10 points, name  
this greatest of the Knights of the Round Table.  
ANSWER:  Lancelot  du Lac  
4. This scientist names fluids that have a constant viscosity regardless of applied stress. This  
scientist eliminated the chromatic aberration of refracting telescopes by building the first good  
telescope that used mirrors. His telescope work was based on his experiments with light,  
published in  Opticks , which included splitting white light with a prism. A law developed by him  
states that force equals mass times acceleration. For 10 points, name this English physicist who  
developed three laws of motion.  
ANSWER: Isaac  Newton   
5. In this book, an archer shoots an arrow through the eye of a floating metal fish without looking  
at it, winning the hand of the beautiful Draupadi (droh-POW-dee). After Yudhisthira (yoo-diss- 
TEE-ruh) loses his wealth in a dice game in this poem, two factions fight the Battle of  
Kurukshetra (KOO-ruk-SHAY-trah). It describes the clash between the Kauravas (kuh-RAH- 
vuhz) and Pandavas (PAHN-dah-vahz). For 10 points, name this Indian epic that includes the  
Krishna’s statement of faith, the  Bhagavad Gita  (BAH-guh-vahd-GEE-tuh).  
ANSWER:  Mahabharata  [do not prompt on “Bhagavad Gita”] 
This is page 2 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. The Mugwumps defected in support of this party’s Presidential candidate. Opponents tagged  
its candidates with the slogan “Rum, Romanism and rebellion.” In their 1896 convention, a  
speaker argued for a bimetallic monetary system, concluding “you shall not crucify mankind  
upon a cross of gold.” The Populists were largely absorbed by this party after the nomination of  
William Jennings Bryan. For 10 points, name this party which nominated Grover Cleveland and  
Woodrow Wilson for President.  
ANSWER:  Democrat ic Party  
7. Fmet (“F”-met) is used at the start of this process, which involves formation of a polysome  
and is initiated by an anti-sequence pairing with the Shine-Dalgarno sequence. Enzymes break an  
ester bond in 23S rRNA at the A and P sites before three release factors terminate this process by  
recognizing nonsense codons. This process begins with the AUG (“A-U-G”) start codon and  
consists of tRNAs adding amino acids to a growing peptide chain. For 10 points, name this  
cytoplasmic process in which 70S ribosomes decode mRNA transcripts to make proteins.  
ANSWER: prokaryotic  translation  [prompt on  protein synthesis ; do not accept “transcription”]  
8. The Brusilov Offensive took many of the German reinforcements that were requested for this  
battle. This battle included the first use of tanks during World War I at Flers-Courcelette (FLEH  
coo-suh-LET). The German focus on this battle allowed the French to turn the tide at Verdun.  
This battle ended with the most substantial allied territorial gains since the Battle of the Marne.  
The British lost 58,000 troops on the first day of this battle. For 10 points, name this 1916 World  
War I battle fought along a river in France, which had over one million casualties.  
ANSWER: First Battle of the  Somme   
9. The pressure drop across an interface is twice this quantity times the mean curvature. This  
quantity is usually measured in dynes per centimeter. A force balance between three phases  
proves that as this quantity increases, the contact angle goes to 90 degrees. If this quantity is  
sufficiently high, and diameter is small, then liquids will rise against gravity through small  
capillaries. A high value of this quantity causes beads of water to form on hydrophobic surfaces.  
For 10 points, name this phenomenon which allows water striders to walk across ponds.  
ANSWER:  surface tension  [or  surface energy ]  
10. This book is the basis for Nathaniel Hawthorne’s story “The Celestial Railroad.” This book’s  
protagonist fights the demonic monster Apollyon (AA-pol-yon). This book describes the journey  
past the Slough of Despond and the town of Vanity Fair undertaken by the title character,  
Christian. For 10 points, name this allegorical prose narrative written by John Bunyan.  
ANSWER:  The  Pilgrim’s Progress   
11. A twentieth-century revival of this instrument was spearheaded by Wanda Landowska. This  
instrument could only play loud and soft dynamics, but nothing in between. The fifth  
Brandenburg Concerto includes a lengthy cadenza (cuh-DEN-zuh) for this instrument. 555  
sonatas were written for this instrument by Domenico Scarlatti. J.S. Bach wrote an aria and a set  
of thirty variations for this instrument in a collection named for Gottlieb Goldberg. For 10 points,  
name this Baroque instrument, which, like the clavichord, was a predecessor of the piano.  
ANSWER:  harpsichord 
This is page 3 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
12. During a siege in this war, the zoo elephants Castor and Pollux were eaten and Leon  
Gambetta escaped in a hot air balloon. A government established after this war was destroyed  
during the “Bloody Week” by Patrice MacMahon. This war was ended by the Treaty of  
Frankfurt and instigated by a forged telegram known as the Ems Dispatch. During this war, an  
emperor was captured at the Battle of Sedan. For 10 points, name this war instigated by Otto von  
Bismarck against a country led by Napoleon III.  
ANSWER:  Franco-Prussian  War [or  Franco-German  War]  
13. In a play by this author, a chorus of old women douse with water a chorus of old men  
carrying torches. This playwright wrote about the construction of Cloudcuckooland and the  
interception of prayers to the gods by the title animals in his play  The Birds.  He also wrote about  
the women of Sparta and Athens going on a sex strike to end the Peloponnesian War. For 10  
points, name this comic Greek playwright of  The Frogs  and  Lysistrata.   
ANSWER:  Aristophanes   
14. Boats named “abras” are used to travel between areas of this city, whose main thoroughfare  
was named for former president Sheikh Zayed. This city is home to the Miracle Garden, the  
world’s largest flower garden. A group of artificial islands off the coast of this city are shaped to  
resemble a world map. A “seven-star” hotel shaped like a sail can be found off this city’s  
Jumeirah (joo-MARE-uh) Beach. In 2010, the tallest building in the world, the Burj Khalifa,  
opened in this city. For 10 points, name this most populous city in the United Arab Emirates.  
ANSWER:  Dubai   
15. Many of this character’s video games take place in the town of Station Square. A recurring  
level in this character’s video games is the Casino Night Zone. He’s not Solid Snake, but this  
character makes a crossover appearance in  Super Smash Brothers: Brawl.  This character teams  
up with Knuckles and Tails in a competition to collect power-up rings and race through game  
levels. For 10 points, name this character, a blue hedgehog who appears in a series of video  
games produced by Sega.  
ANSWER:  Sonic  the Hedgehog 
This is page 4 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 6  
Directed Round   
1A. What law states that if the statement, “if P, then Q” is true, then the statement “if not Q, then  
not P” is also true?  
ANSWER: law of the  contrapositive  [or law of  contraposition ]  
1B. What Uralic language, the second most-spoken after Hungarian, is referred to as “Suomi”  
(SWOH-mee) by native speakers and is closely related to Estonian?  
ANSWER:  Finnish   
2A. What Shakespeare character cries, “Out, damned spot!” as she sleepwalks out of guilt for  
persuading her husband to assassinate King Duncan?  
ANSWER:  Lady Macbeth  [do not prompt on “Macbeth”]  
2B. In what Indian city were 146 British troops held in cramped prisons during its namesake  
“Black Hole” incident?  
ANSWER:  Calcutta  [or  Kolkata ]  
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. The probability of event A occurring is 0.2. The  
probability of event B occurring, given that event A occurs, is 0.4. If A and B are independent  
events, what is the probability that, given that event B occurred, event A occurred?  
ANSWER:  0.2  [or  1/5 ]  
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Triangles ABC and DEF are congruent. Triangle  
ABC has vertices at (2,1), (3,8), and (4,1). Two of the vertices of triangle DEF are at (-3,6) and (- 
1,6). What are the two possible locations of the third vertex of triangle DEF?  
ANSWER:  (-2,13) and (-2,-1)   
4A. What German philosopher authored  Monadology , coined the phrase “the best of all possible  
worlds,” and invented calculus?  
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm  Leibniz   
4B. Name the component of cells that contains the non-nuclear organelles and largely consists of  
a gelatinous fluid called cytosol (SAI-tuh-sahl).  
ANSWER:  cytoplasm   
5A. What defensive chess move is the only move that involves moving two pieces, the king and  
the rook, at the same time?  
ANSWER:  castling  [or word forms] 
This is page 5 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5B. Light is produced from sources termed “K,” “F,” and “E” in what region of hot plasma  
surrounding the sun, which is hundreds of times hotter than the photosphere?  
ANSWER:  corona   
6A. What disorder, in which the spine is abnormally curved, helped to identify a skeleton found  
under a parking lot as King Richard III?  
ANSWER:  scoliosis  [do not accept “hunchback”]  
6B. Name the 1521 theological gathering at which Martin Luther said “here I stand, I can do no  
other,” before being taken to Wartburg (VORT-burg) by Prince Frederick.  
ANSWER:  Diet of Worms   
7A. What treaty ended the Mexican-American War by ceding southwest possessions to the  
United States?  
ANSWER: Treaty of  Guadalupe Hidalgo   
7B. What Italian artist and promoter of “metaphysical art” showed three mannequins inspired by  
Greek mythology in  The Disquieting Muses  and a girl rolling a hoop in  Mystery and Melancholy  
of a Street?   
ANSWER: Giorgio  de Chirico   
8A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all solutions to the quadratic equation x  
squared plus 6 x equals 7 x plus 12.  
ANSWER: x equals   and   [or { 4 -3 4, -3 }]  
8B. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the tangent of the arcsecant of 2?  
ANSWER: square  root  of   [or  3 rad ical  ]  3 
9A. What material was used to build a massive collection of sculptures of Qin Shi Huangdi’s  
(CHEE shin wong-DEE’s) army in Xi’an (SHEE-ahn), China?  
ANSWER:  terracotta  [or  Terracotta  Army; or  Terracotta  Warriors]  
9B. What Czech author wrote  The Book of Laughter and Forgetting  and  The Unbearable  
Lightness of Being ?  
ANSWER: Milan  Kundera   
10A. What process determines poetic meter by searching for stressed syllables and counting  
feet?  
ANSWER:  scansion   
10B. What poet, who described an “old yellow pair” in “The Bean Eaters,” also wrote “We Real  
Cool” and became the first African-American to win the Pulitzer Prize?  
ANSWER: Gwendolyn  Brooks 
This is page 6 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 6  
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. The optimal rate of these things is the inverse elasticity of demand if the lump-sum type is  
unavailable. Arthur Pigou (pig-OO) suggested using these things to make producers internalize  
negative externalities such as carbon dioxide. The Laffer curve illustrates that beyond a certain  
rate, increasing these things will lead to falling revenue. When these things are at the same  
nominal rate for people regardless of income, they are termed “regressive.” For 10 points, name  
these things that are levied to raise government revenue.  
ANSWER:  tax es  
2. A large observatory can be found in this island’s city of Arecibo (AH-ruh-SEE-boh). The  
Mona Passage separates this island from a larger one to its west. This island is home to the coquí  
(coh-KEE), a frog named for its mating call, which can be found in its El Yunque (YOON-kay)  
National Forest. The city of Mayagüez (MAI-uh-GWEZ) can be found on this island’s west  
coast. This island is located east of Hispaniola. For 10 points, name this Spanish-speaking  
territory of the United States in the Caribbean.  
ANSWER:  Puerto Rico  [Commonwealth of  Puerto Rico ]  
3. The negative dot product of dipole moment and electric field gives this quantity for an electric  
dipole. Force is defined as the negative position derivative of this quantity. This quantity for  
gravity is defined at infinity as zero. For a spring, this quantity is proportional to displacement  
squared, while its gravitational form is mass times g times height. For 10 points, identify this  
term for stored energy, that is contrasted with kinetic energy.  
ANSWER:  potential  energy  
4. During one of these events, protesters clashed with police in the Tompkins Square Riot. One  
of these events began after Levi Woodbury issued an order opposing wildcat currency. The  
Bland-Allison Act responded to one of these events by replacing a law called the “Crime of ‘73.”  
One of these events was partly caused by the creation of pet banks and the issue of the Specie  
Circular. That one of these events occurred in 1837 during Martin van Buren’s presidency. For  
10 points, give this term for financial crises in nineteenth-century America.  
ANSWER:  panic s [prompt on  recession s]  
5. In 2013, this artist released an album called  Christmas Kisses  which featured the original track  
“Snow in California.” This artist filmed a music video in an abandoned mansion for her song  
“Love Me Harder.” This singer says that she has her “head in the clouds” and “no weight” on her  
shoulders; in the chorus to another of her songs, she says “this is the part when I say I don’t want  
ya, I’m stronger than I’ve been before.” For 10 points, the 2014 album  My Everything  includes  
the songs “Break Free” and “Problem” by what cat-ears-wearing former Disney star?  
ANSWER: Ariana  Grande  [or Ariana  Grande-Butera ] 
This is page 7 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. In this novella, Juan Tomas and Apolonia provide a haven for their family members, who are  
refused help by the Doctor. The central family of this novella owns a prized canoe that is  
destroyed as their house is burning down. The title object of this novella is discovered as the  
protagonist is searching for a way to pay for medical treatment of Coyotito’s (co-yo-TEE-toh’s)  
scorpion sting. For 10 points, name this John Steinbeck novella in which Kino finds the title  
object while diving.  
ANSWER:  The  Pearl   
7. This person thwarted a man who killed people by catapulting them using the force of bended  
pine trees. He joined with Pirithous (PEER-uh-thoos) to carry off daughters of Zeus. This man’s  
father killed himself after seeing black sails furled on this man’s returning ship. In his early  
career, he slew such bandits as Sciron (SKY-ron) and Procrustes (pruh-CRUS-teez). This man  
was given a ball of thread by Ariadne, which allowed him to navigate the Labyrinth and fight a  
half-man, half-bull monster. For 10 points, name this Greek hero who slew the Minotaur.  
ANSWER:  Theseus   
8. Henry Knighton’s account of this event describes the burning of the Savoy Palace, and John  
Gower’s  Vox Clamantis  (VOCKS cluh-MAHN-tiss) lamented the evil of this event’s  
participants. During this event, the lyric “When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the  
gentleman” was popularized by the priest John Ball. The Mayor of London, William Walworth,  
murdered the leader of this event during a meeting at Smithfield. For 10 points, name this  
rebellion led by Wat Tyler, which was an uprising of laborers during the reign of Richard II.  
ANSWER:  Peasant s’ Revolt [or Wat  Tyler ’s Rebellion until “Wat Tyler” is read; or  Great  
Rising ; do not accept “Peasants’ War”]  
9. In a painting by this artist, images of a sky, a forest, and a fire are separated by an irregularly- 
shaped frame. This artist included images on canvases that are continuous with the landscapes  
behind them in many paintings, including  Euclidean  (yoo-KLID-ee-un)  Walks  and  The Human  
Condition.  A train juts from a fireplace in this artist’s painting  Time Transfixed.  In an image by  
this artist, a green apple obscures the face of a man in a bowler hat. For 10 points, name this  
Belgian surrealist who painted the words “this is not a pipe” below an image of a pipe.  
ANSWER: René  Magritte  [René François Ghislain  Magritte ]  
10. An emperor of this dynasty praised Islam in the  Hundred-Word Eulogy . The founder of this  
empire took the title “Hongwu” after winning the Battle of Lake Poyang (POH-yong) and allying  
with the Red Turbans. During this dynasty, seven treasure voyages under the eunuch admiral  
Zheng He (jung HA) were sponsored by the Yongle (YONG-lay) emperor. The Forbidden City  
was constructed during this dynasty. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty which succeeded  
the Mongol Yuan (WON) dynasty and was followed by the Qing (CHING) dynasty.  
ANSWER:  Ming  dynasty 
This is page 8 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. Bayesian versions of these constructs are termed “credible” ones. The coverage probability  
quantifies the chance that one of these constructs includes a parameter of interest. If the  
population is normally distributed and has a known standard deviation, adding and subtracting  
1.96 times that standard deviation over square root of n gives a ninety-five percent one of these  
things for the mean. For 10 points, name this statistical estimate of two values that the population  
mean or other parameter lies between.  
ANSWER:  confidence interval  [or  CI ; or  confidence set s]  
12. A third movement marked “Allegro agitato” (ah-gee-TAH-toh) ends this composer’s only  
piano concerto, which is in F major. This man composed a set of variations on “I Got Rhythm,” a  
standard that he wrote with his lyricist brother Ira. This composer included parts for four taxi  
horns and used blues music to depict homesickness in the tone poem  An American in Paris.  In  
another piece by this composer, a solo clarinet opens with a trill and ascending glissando (glih- 
SAHN-doh). For 10 points, name this composer of  An American in Paris  and  Rhapsody in Blue.   
ANSWER: George  Gershwin   
13. The absence of this stimulus in certain cells results in a steady inward sodium current due to  
high levels of cGMP. Upon exposure to this stimulus, special pairs in the reaction center transfer  
an electron to pheophytin (FEE-oh-FITE-in). DNA damage from this stimulus is reduced when it  
activates melanin production. Its presence stimulates a structural change in vitamin A in rods and  
cones. Pigments in PSII (“P-S-2”) absorb this radiation at 680 nanometers, which excites  
electrons in chlorophyll. For 10 points, name this stimulus used by plants during photosynthesis.  
ANSWER:  light  [or  UV  radiation; or visible  light ; or  photon s; prompt on reasonable partial  
answers such as the  sun shining ]  
14. A character in this novel is a clerk who lives in a replica of a castle with his father known as  
the “Aged Parent.” A villain in this book, Compeyson (COM-pee-sun), abandoned a woman at  
the altar, prompting her to keep all the clocks in Satis House stopped at twenty minutes to nine.  
Its main character is raised by a blacksmith named Joe Gargery. The protagonist of this novel  
believes his benefactor is the spinster Miss Havisham, but it is actually a convict named Abel  
Magwitch. For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens novel about an orphan named Pip.  
ANSWER:  Great Expectations   
15. A tangent to this curve will always bisect an angle created by joining the point of contact to  
its two definitional points. It is normally specified as the locus of points such that the distance  
from the points to the focus is equal to the distance from the points to the directrix. This curve  
models the flight of any object under the influence of gravity, and it is the only conic section  
whose graph can be a function. For 10 points, name this curve that graphs a function of the form  
y equals x squared.  
ANSWER:  parabola s 
This is page 9 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 6  
Tiebreaker/replacement questions   
1. This city’s Union Terminal was converted to the Museum Center in 1990. Its former L&N  
Railroad Bridge to Newport is now the pedestrian-and-bicycle-only “Purple People Bridge.” A  
Macedonian immigrant in this city, Thomas Kiradjieff (keer-AA-jif), developed a distinctive  
style of chili served over spaghetti. Italianate architecture is preserved in its historic Over-the- 
Rhine neighborhood. For 10 points, identify this city nicknamed the Queen City, which is found  
across the river from Kentucky in southwestern Ohio.  
ANSWER:  Cincinnati   
2. In this novel, one character’s opinion of another changes after she hears him praised by his  
servant Mrs. Reynolds upon visiting his estate of Pemberley. In this novel, the protagonist’s  
older sister Jane marries the wealthy Mr. Bingley, whereas the protagonist eventually agrees to  
marry the even wealthier Mr. Darcy. For 10 points, name this novel about Elizabeth Bennet by  
Jane Austen.  
ANSWER:  Pride and Prejudice   
3. This country’s salt-rich Lake Natron is a breeding ground for flamingos. It’s not Indonesia, but  
this country is home to two islands nicknamed for their production of spices, one of which is  
Mafia Island. The Leakey family conducted archaeological research at this country’s Olduvai  
Gorge. This country, which moved its capital inland from Dar es Salaam (DAAR-es-sah-LAHM)  
to Dodoma, is home to Kilimanjaro, the highest point in Africa. For 10 points, name this African  
country formed from the unification of Tanganyika (tan-gan-YEE-kuh) and Zanzibar.  
ANSWER:  Tanzania  [United Republic of  Tanzania ]  
4. At a meeting called by this man, Macedonia was returned to the Ottoman Empire as part of a  
series of moves that undid the Treaty of San Stefano. In a speech to a budget committee, this  
politician declared that “the great questions of the time will not be resolved by speeches and  
majority decisions, but by iron and blood.” This politician called the Congress of Berlin and  
engineered the unification of Germany. For 10 points, identify this German statesman who was  
nicknamed the “Iron Chancellor.”  
ANSWER: Otto von  Bismarck  [Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of  Bismarck , Duke of Lauenburg] 
This is page 10 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 6 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5. Optimally, the feed to this process should occur at the intersection of the rectifying and  
stripping sections. This process is done to air at extremely cold temperatures in the most  
common method of purifying oxygen. The reflux ratio quantifies how much of the overhead is  
returned to the fractionating column during this process. This technique is ineffective at  
separating azeotropes (EY-zee-uh-tropes), which is why it only produces ethanol that is 96%  
pure. For 10 points, name this purification technique in which a liquid is boiled and condensed.  
ANSWER:  distillation  [or word forms; or fractional  distillation ; or cryogenic  distillation ; or air  
distillation ; prompt on  boil ing or word forms]  
What 1893 reform law established that civil service positions must be awarded through merit- 
based exams instead of patronage?  
ANSWER:  Pendleton  Civil Service Reform Act  
This is a calculation question. What is the domain of the function f of x equals square root of  
quantity negative x squared minus 4 x minus 3?  
ANSWER: x is  between -3 and -1 , inclusive [or [ -3,-1 ]] 
