2013 NHB Set C 
Extra Question Sheet 3 
This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the 
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is 
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a 
first or second quarter question. 
1.  
These people first compiled the Salic Law, which defined European succession for the next 1200 
years. Their history was written by Gregory of Tours, who praised their adoption of Catholicism 
when other (+) Germanic tribes were Arians. These people were united under Clovis I, who 
established the (*) 
 Merovingian Dynasty. For 10 points, name this group which, in the fifth century CE, 
began ruling the country they lend their name to, France. 
ANSWER:  
Frank 
s 
019-13-87-17101 
2.  
The first African winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, Albert Luthuli, was a member of this ethnic 
group. This group won the Battle of Rorke's Drift in a namesake war against the (+) British. Earlier, 
they used the iklwa spear and the \"buffalo horns formation\" to initiate the \"mfecane\" 
(emf-uh-KAH-nay), or \"crushing,\" after they were united by (*) 
 Dingiswayo. For 10 points, identify 
this South African ethnic group which enlarged its territory under Shaka. 
ANSWER:  
Zulu 
s 
019-13-87-17102 
3.  
This policy was announced in the Waldorf Statement, and it was extended to the people mentioned 
in the pamphlet  Red Channels.  It continued until 1960, when Dalton Trumbo was permitted to take 
(+) credit for writing  Spartacus.  This policy began in 1947 and was targeted at ten people who 
refused to testify before the (*) 
 House Un-American Activities Committee. For 10 points, identify this 
entertainment industry policy of refusing work to members of the Communist Party. 
ANSWER: the Hollywood  
blacklist 
 [or  
blacklisting 
, etc.; prompt on descriptive answers until the end of 
the question] 
019-13-87-17103 
4.  
This war was challenged by questioning where the \"spot\" was that blood had been shed on U.S. 
soil. Henry David Thoreau refused to pay a poll tax in protest of this war. During this war, (+) 
Winfield Scott won a siege at Veracruz in only twenty days. It was ended by the Treaty of (*) 
Guadalupe (gwah-duh-LOO-pay) Hidalgo and occurred during the presidency of James K. Polk. For 10 
points, identify this war that occurred between two North American countries after the annexation of Texas. 
ANSWER:  
Mexican 
-American War 
066-13-87-17104 
5.  
Druzes believe a ruler, al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah, to be the incarnation of God. Jawhar al-Siqilli 
founded this city and built its al-Azhar (uh-ZAR) mosque. The Ayyubid dynasty's capital was this 
city. The Ayyubids were succeeded by a sultanate of former (+) slaves, the Mamluks, who ruled until 
it was taken by the Ottomans. Saladin defeated the Fatimid caliphate that was headquartered here. 
(*) 
 For 10 points, name this city which replaced Alexandria as the center of Egypt. 
ANSWER:  
Cairo 
121-13-87-17105 
2013 NHB Set C     Extras Round 3     Page  1 of 2 
6.  
In one novel set in this historical country, the 104th work team is exempt from work when the 
temperature is below negative forty-two degrees Celsius. Authors here avoided censorship with 
self-publishing, or (+) \"samizdat.\"  The Master and Margarita  and  One Day in the Life of  (*)  Ivan 
Denisovich 
 are set in this country that imprisoned Alexander Solzhenitsyn. For 10 points, name this country 
whose political prisons were the subject of  
The Gulag Archipelago. 
ANSWER: the  
Soviet Union 
 [or  
U.S.S.R 
; or  
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
; or  
Soyuz Sovetskikh 
Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik 
; or  
 Sovetsky Soyuz 
; or  
S.S.S.R. 
; prompt on  
Russia 
] 
232-13-87-17106 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set C     Extras Round 3     Page  2 of 2 
