National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 16 
Tossups 
1. One character in this story warns its main character that her \"imaginative power and habit of 
story-making\" will only aggravate her nervousness. This short story's narrator is dissuaded from visiting 
Cousin Henry and Julia, and hides the text of this story from her housekeeper, Jennie. The title object's 
\"strangled heads and bulbous eyes and waddling fungus growths\" provoke the narrator to free the woman 
creeping behind it by tearing it away. This short story criticizes the \"rest cure\" prescribed by doctors such 
as Silas Weir Mitchell by portraying the breakdown of a woman's mind through her reaction to the title 
object. For 10 points, name this short story by Charlotte Perkins Gilman set in a room decorated with a 
hideously colored pattern. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Yellow Wall-Paper 
\" 
004-09-12-16102 
2. This man’s namesake angle is defined by the intersection of the nasobasilar and nasosubnasal lines. In 
encephalitis, the spaces named for him and Robin around the brain’s blood vessels become apparent. He 
names a triad consisting of venous stasis, trauma, and hypercoagulability that predispose a patient to 
venous thrombosis. This anatomy teacher to Franz Boas was a major opponent of Semmelweiss' 
hand-washing regime. He added the \"functio lasa\" condition to classic descriptions of inflammation. This 
father of pathology may be most famous for the idea that he stated \"omnis cellula e cellula\", expanding on 
the work of Theodor Schwann. For 10 points, name this German doctor who elucidated the idea that every 
cell comes from another cell, thus completing cell theory. 
ANSWER: Rudolf  
Virchow 
003-09-12-16103 
3. The second movement of this composer's fourth violin sonata depicts boys throwing rocks into a creek in 
a section marked Allegro conslugarocko. He mocked James Henderson's book  
What is Good Music? 
 by 
writing his  
Three Page 
 Sonata. One of this composer's works includes movements about a boy who falls 
asleep and dreams about encountering soldiers and a statue commemorating the soldiers of the 54th 
Massachusetts regiment; those movements are titled \"Putnam's Camp\" and \"The St. Gaudens’ in Boston 
Common.\" This composer's second piano sonata is divided into movements called \"Emerson,\" 
\"Hawthorne,\" \"The Alcotts,\" and \"Thoreau.\" For 10 points, name this American modernist composer of  
Three Places in New England 
 and the  
Concord 
 Sonata. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Ives 
030-09-12-16104 
4. In the eighth chapter of this novel, Ayesha leads Mishal and other pilgrims on a march into the Arabian 
Sea, causing them to drown. Out of jealousy, the protagonist of this novel kills S. S. Sisodia and Allie 
Cone. The protagonist is haunted by a former lover who committed suicide by jumping off Everest Vilas, 
Rekha Merchant, and dreams the other main plots of this novel, which describe the fanaticism of the Imam 
and the rise to power of Mahound. This novel begins with the explosion of an airplane over the English 
Channel, causing the two main characters to fall and transform into an angel and a devil. For 10 points, 
name this novel about Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta, which caused its author, Salman Rushie, to 
be targeted by a fatwa issued by the Ayatollah Khomeini. 
ANSWER:  
The  Satanic Verses 
004-09-12-16105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  1 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This man once declared himself the only heterosexual on the planet, and gave propagandist rants during 
the so-called \"white nights.\" He was opposed by the Concerned Relatives. A 76-year-old woman named 
Hyacinth Thrash was the only survivor discovered at the site of this man's worst atrocities, which occurred 
the same day that his \"Red Brigade\" shot up the Port Kaituma airstrip, killing Leo Ryan and four others. In 
those atrocities, over nine hundred people either voluntarily or unwillingly drank valium- and 
cyanide-laced Flavor-Aid. For 10 points, name this leader of the People's Temple who ordered a 1978 mass 
suicide in a namesake town in Guyana. 
ANSWER: Jim  
Jones 
 [or James Warren  
Jones 
] 
003-09-12-16106 
6. An alloy of iron, neodymium and this element forms a tetrahedral structure in strongest permanent 
magnet known. A reagent containing this element has two atoms of it flanked by two cyclooctadine rings, 
and a class of reducing agents incorporating it have it bonded to 3 sec-butyl groups with a lithium 
counterion. Besides 9-BBN and the selectrides, this atom is also bonded to four hydride atoms with a 
sodium counterion in a gentler alternative to lithium aluminum hydride. One class of derivatives of this 
element are given prefixes like closo- and arachno-; many of those compounds dimerize via three-center 
two-electron bonds to satisfy the octet rule. A common anti-Markovnikov reaction uses this element, which 
has isotopes of atomic weight 10 and 11. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number five. 
ANSWER:  
boron 
 [or  ] 
B 
022-09-12-16107 
7. One battle in this war included Von Bredow's surprisingly successful cavalry charge, dubbed the \"Death 
Ride,\" and is the textbook example of a \"meeting engagement.\" In addition to the Battle of Mars-la-Tour, 
this war saw one side led by Marshal Achille Bazaine inflict heavy casualties at the Battle of Gravelotte, 
which led to the Siege of Metz. One side in this war, though equipped with the chassepot rifle, was 
nevertheless defeated by troops led by Helmuth von Moltke, who overwhelmed soldiers led by Patrice 
MacMahon. The losing side in this war was accused of sending the Ems Dispatch, and its leader was was 
captured during this war's Battle of Sedan. For 10 points, name this conflict orchestrated by Otto von 
Bismarck, which pitted a confederation of German states against the Second Empire led by Napoleon III. 
ANSWER:  
Franco-Prussian 
 War [or  
Franco-German 
 War; or  
1870 War 
] 
059-09-12-16108 
8. The son of one woman of this name was a Trojan warrior loved by Sarpedon and named Atymnius. In 
addition to King Phoenix's wife, the more famous figure of this name was associated with both a crown and 
a throne, as she was upside-down for half of eternity. Some accounts say that her country was destroyed by 
a flood, but all accounts agree that her words upset the fifty daughters of Doris and Nereus, resulting more 
famously in the whale-like Cetus ravaging the shores of Ethiopia. After consulting an oracle with her 
husband Cepheus, this figure chained up her daughter as a sacrifice to the sea monster. For 10 points, name 
this mother of Andromeda. 
ANSWER:  
Cassiopeia 
064-09-12-16109 
9. This air force captured and transported an enemy P-12 radar in Operation Rooster during the so-called 
War of Attrition that took place after the failure of the Jarring Mission. One of its early casualties was the 
American volunteer Bob Vickman and this air force succeeded in destroying over four hundred of its 
opponent’s grounded craft in Operation Focus. This force bombed a nuclear reactor at Osirak during 
Operation Opera. It destroyed eleven Ugandan aircraft and transported Special Forces enroute to freeing 
over two hundred hostages in a raid on Entebbe. For 10 points, name this air force which has distinguished 
itself during the Six Day War and Yom Kippur War. 
ANSWER:  
Israel 
i Air Force 
015-09-12-16110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  2 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This artist opened a school in Grunewald whose six star pupils included Lisa Milker, Anna Denzler, 
and Irma Erich-Grimme, who later adapted her last name. The Delsarte technique inspired this artist to 
crusade against restrictive corsets and toe shoes, which she believed unnaturally restricted the force of 
gravity. She thought that the soul existed in the solar plexus, which she considered the source of bodily 
movements. Her admiration for ancient Greek culture led her to break from the artificiality of classical 
ballet and dance in a loose, natural style in free-flowing costumes and bare feet. For 10 points, name this 
American dancer, a leading pioneer of modern dance, who died of a broken neck in 1927 when her long, 
flowing scarf became caught in the wheel of a car. 
ANSWER: Isadora  
Duncan 
004-09-12-16111 
11. In one scene in this story, a character goes to visit a baptism, saying “It is good to pray sometimes” 
when asked if it was an amusing ceremony. In another scene, nuns tell the title character about their 
mission to help soldiers afflicted with small pox. At the end of this story, Cornudet begins to ferociously 
whistle the “Marseillaise.” While the title character shares her picnic basket with others, she receives none 
of their food at the end of this story. The title character, whose real name is Elizabeth Rousset, ultimately 
gives in to her fellow travelers’ pressures and sleeps with a Prussian officer so that the carriage may 
proceed. For 10 points, name this Guy de Maupassant story about the titular rotund French prostitute. 
ANSWER: \" 
Boule de Suif 
\" [or \" 
Ball of Fat 
\"] 
052-09-12-16112 
12. One option for hydrogenating alkynes is to react them with a solution of sodium dissolved in this 
compound. Townes, Gordon and Zeiger applied a non-uniform electric field to this compound, causing a 
difference in dipole moments and stimulated emission. Iron-molybdenum protein complexes are found in 
diazotrophs that produce this compound, such as rhizobia. Terrestrial animals convert this compound to 
either urea or uric acid. It is the canonical molecule with trigonal pyramidal molecular geometry. Industrial 
production of it uses an iron catalyst in a modification first made by Carl Bosch. For 10 points, name this 
compound produced in the Haber process and which has formula NH . 
3 
ANSWER:  
ammonia 
 (accept  
NH 
3 
 before mentioned) 
064-09-12-16113 
13. Kenneth Iverson argued that this concept applied to computer algorithms. The Kennenberg and Brown 
critique of this idea centers on the fact that its proposers never proved a causal relationship, and examines 
the distinction between blue and green. The discovery of eleven \"color foci\" by Paul Kay and Brent Berlin 
helped discredit this idea, and James Cooke Brown developed Loglan to test it. Geoffrey Pullum attempted 
to discredit this idea in an essay about an \"Eskimo vocabulary hoax.\" This principle, which was described 
using an analogy of a canoe on a beach, was created to explain why the Hopi have a radically different 
concept of time than English speakers. For 10 points, name this statement that asserts that one's language 
determines one's thoughts and perceptions, a hypothesis named after two linguists. 
ANSWER:  
Sapir-Whorf 
 hypothesis [or  
linguistic relativity 
] 
032-09-12-16114 
14. In 2006 a new species of the predatory Raiamas genus of fish was discovered in a tributary of this river, 
the Inkisi River, and other tributaries of it include the Lomami. This second most voluminous river in the 
world includes a tributary that also runs through Angola, the Kasai River. A railroad beginning at Matadi 
was built to bypass the non-navigable Livingstone Falls on this river, which also includes the Stanley Falls. 
At Boyoma Falls, the Lualaba River becomes this river, whose sources include Lake Mweru and Lake 
Tanganyika. For 10 points, name this waterway, the second-longest in Africa, that flows through cities of 
its namesake country like Brazzaville and Kinshasa. 
ANSWER:  
Congo 
 River [or  
Zaire 
 River; accept  
Inkisi 
 river before \"tributary\"] 
032-09-12-16115 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  3 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. This man proposed multiple realizability in his arguments against brain state theory. He countered 
many of his previous ideas in  
Representation and Reality 
. This thinker argued for the reality of 
mathematics in an indispensability thesis named for him and Quine. In the 1950s, he compared minds to 
computers in his theories on functionalism. XYZ replaces H O in a thought experiment formulated by this 
2 
man. He argued that we cannot be brains in a vat and argued against linguistic internalism and for 
externalism, which he illustrated by creating a thought experiment in which two worlds are exactly the 
same except for one minute difference. For 10 points, name this American philosopher known for his Twin 
Earth thought experiment. 
ANSWER: Hilary Whitehall  
Putnam 
001-09-12-16116 
16. Forts known as one man’s “follies” were built in the nineteenth century to prevent this action from 
happening. One plan for achieving this goal included an aftermath in which Dr. Franz Six and his men 
would use the “Black Book” to find a list of people to be arrested immediately. An attempt to prevent this 
action from happening saw a failed 1801 raid on the forces of Latouche Treville at Boulogne. This action 
was prevented from happening by the following year’s Peace of Amiens. A plan for achieving this was 
code named Operation Sea Lion and was cancelled after the failure of the Battle of Britain. For 10 points, 
name this military operation never successfully carried out by Hitler, but successfully accomplished by 
William the Conqueror and his Norman forces in 1066. 
ANSWER:  
invading England 
 [accept equivalents] 
052-09-12-16117 
17. The speaker of one of this author's poems resolves to lie down in \"the foul rag and bone shop of the 
heart\" after he \"sought a theme and sought for it in vain.\" One of this author's title characters declares 
\"Love has pitched his mansion in / The place of excrement\" upon being told to \"Live in a heavenly 
mansion, not in some foul sty.\" This author of \"The Circus Animals' Desertion\" and \"Crazy Jane Talks 
With the Bishop\" wrote a poem whose title character feels \"a lonely impulse of delight\" and asserts \"I know 
that I shall meet my fate / Somewhere among the clouds above.\" His theory that history was a revolving 
series of gyres inspired him to write a poem that asks \"what rough beast\" \"Slouches towards Bethlehem to 
be born?\" For 10 points, name this poet of \"An Irish Airman foresees his Death\" and \"The Second 
Coming.\" 
ANSWER: William Butler  
Yeats 
015-09-12-16118 
18. The critical kinetic temperature in these systems is about three times h-bar squared times number 
density to the two-thirds, divided by the particle mass; that value is obtained by integrating the underlying 
particle distribution function maximum over wavevectors. A semi-classical model of these systems has 
each additional particle adding the ground state energy, so the Hamiltonian of these systems includes a term 
of the ground state potential times the square modulus of the wave function, as can be seen in the 
Gross-Piatevskii equation. That equation gives their ground state wave functions. Lasers can be used to 
create soliton trains in these materials, which may allow for the creation of extremely precise gyroscopes. 
They were first successfully created using rubidium in 1995 by Cornell and Wieman. For 10 points, name 
these compact, degenerate states formed near absolute zero from particles with integer spins. 
ANSWER:  
Bose-Einstein condensate 
s [or  
BEC 
s; prompt on  
condensate 
s] 
023-09-12-16119 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  4 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. Members of this group use an acronym called “SPICES” to reflect “Simplicity” and “Stewardship.” 
Some members of this group drafted a statement of faith called the “Richmond Declaration.” Elias Hicks’ 
faction sparred with the more “Orthodox” members of this group. Typically, worship services held by this 
group are “unprogrammed,” with long stretches of silence between every speaker. This group believes that 
believers have an “inner light” reflecting God’s presence. For 10 points, name this order founded by 
George Fox, whose notable members included William Penn and whose colloquial name refers to their 
so-called habit of “trembling” before God. 
ANSWER:  
Quakers 
 [or Religious  
Society of Friends 
] 
052-09-12-16120 
20. This painter depicted a string holding up a central clock in a painting that depicts a two-faced man, a 
vase of flowers, and a meeting of aquatic creatures. This painter of  
Fish Magic 
 showed a group of tan and 
yellow arch-like structures in his painting  
Viaducts Break Rank 
. Walter Benjamin (ben-ya-MEEN) owned 
this painter's  
Angelus Novus 
, which Benjamin claimed represented the \"angel of history.\" He also painted 
four stick-like animals opening their beaks atop a crank-driven apparatus. For 10 points, name this longtime 
teacher at the Bauhaus who painted the  
Twittering Machine 
. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Klee 
 (\"clay\") 
026-09-12-16121 
21. In one short story by this author, a doctor is reminded that he would scream loudly if his fingers were 
slammed in a door before despairing at the sight of flames from a bone mill. In that story by this author, Dr. 
Ragin runs a mental institution that houses the paranoid Gromov. This author also penned a story in which 
Nikolai is content to grow stunted fruits on his estate. In another of his short stories, Gurov romances Anna 
Sergeevna, a woman he meets in Yalta while she is walking her pet. For 10 points, name this author of 
\"Ward Number Six,\" \"The Lady with the Lapdog,\" and \"Gooseberries,\" who also wrote plays like  
The 
Cherry Orchard 
. 
ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich  
Chekhov 
026-09-12-16122 
22. This ruler was opposed by John Deydras and Humphrey de Bohun and his advisors included Aymer de 
Valence. This man was forced to sign concessions to the Ordainers and showed much favor in his late life 
to Hugh Despenser the Younger. He married Isabella of France, the daughter of Philip the Fair, although 
historians have noted his strong relationship with Piers Gaveston. He was deposed following an invasion 
led by Roger Mortimer and his army had earlier been defeated by the troops of Robert Bruce at the Battle 
of Bannockburn in 1314. For 10 points, name this English king who succeeded Edward Longshanks. 
ANSWER:  
Edward II 
 of England 
064-09-12-16123 
23. A nuclear isoform of this protein's Class I co-localizes with RNA polymerase II and is required for 
transcription initiation. This protein's Class VI is absent in the Snell's waltzer mutant; that class, class VII, 
and class XV are missing or malformed in a variety of nonsyndromic hearing impairments including 
Usher's syndrome. Class II of this protein contains two regulatory light chains, two essential light chains, 
and two heavy chains. That class is found in the A band of a sarcomere, is connected to titin at the M line, 
and makes up most of the \"thick filaments.\" For 10 points, name this protein slides along actin to produce 
muscle contraction. 
ANSWER:  
myosin 
003-09-12-16124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  5 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 16 
Bonuses 
1. Visitors to this place are allowed to stay in the House of Strangers and every twelve years it sends 
Merchants of Light to gather information from the outside world. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Christian utopia explained to the narrator by Joabin the Jew and found on the island of 
Bensalem. 
ANSWER:  
The  New Atlantis 
[10]  
The New Atlantis 
 was written by this British thinker who warned against the “Idols” of Tribe, Den, 
Marketplace, and Theatre and helped develop the scientific method in  
Novum Organum 
. 
ANSWER: Francis  
Bacon 
[10] The chief intellectual center of the New Atlantis is this “College of the Six Days Works” which 
employs Depredators, Lamps, and Mystery Men who devise and conduct new experiments. 
ANSWER:  
Solomon’s House 
015-09-12-16201 
2. This event began when the KCA joined forces with the Forty Group. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1950’s uprising in Kenya against British rule. 
ANSWER:  
Mau Mau 
 Uprising [accept equivalents for uprising] 
[10] The Mau Mau Uprising was led by members of this largest ethnic group of Kenya. 
ANSWER:  
Kikuyu 
[10] The Mau Mau Uprising ended during the reign of this British Prime Minister whose six year term saw 
most British possessions in Africa gain independence. 
ANSWER: Harold  
MacMillan 
064-09-12-16202 
3. Two harps playing glissandos help create the dreamlike mood of this composition. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this symphonic poem which premiered in 1894. It begins with a solo flute playing a C sharp, 
chromatically descending to a tritone, and then ascending back to C sharp, representing the reverie of the 
title creature. 
ANSWER:  
Prelude to the  Afternoon of a Faun 
 [or  
Prélude à l' après-midi d'un faune 
] 
[10] This French composer of  
La Mer 
 wrote  
Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun 
. 
ANSWER: Achille-Claude  
Debussy 
[10] This quiet composition in G flat major is the eighth piece in Debussy's first book of preludes. It begins 
softly on D flat with the direction \"sans rigueur,\" and depicts a shy Scottish young woman. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Girl With the Flaxen Hair 
\" [or \"The  
Maid With the Flaxen Hair 
\"; or \"La  
fille aux 
cheveux de lin 
\"] 
004-09-12-16203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  6 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. The metallocene containing this element has a Cp-metal-Cp bond angle of one-hundred fifty-four 
degrees. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this element extracted from the ore stibnite, which is sometimes confused with the element 
above it on the periodic table, arsenic. 
ANSWER:  
antimony 
 [prompt on  
Sb 
] 
[10] George Olah combined antimony pentafluoride with fluorosulfuric acid to create a superacid known 
by this adjective. 
ANSWER:  
magic 
 acid 
[10] George Olah's magic acid can cause a series of reactions that protonate methane, eventually forming 
one of these species, a positively charged carbon found in SN1, but not SN2, reactions. 
ANSWER:  
carbocation 
064-09-12-16204 
5. Answer the following about thinkers during the Hundred Schools of Thought period, for 10 points each. 
[10] This influential thinker's teachings are preserved in the  
Analects. 
ANSWER:  
Confucius 
 [or  
Kung Fu Tzu 
; or  
Kongzi 
] 
[10] This Confucian thinker argued that human nature is good, and his book of sayings bearing his name is 
one of the four books of Confucianism. 
ANSWER:  
Mencius 
 [or  
Mengzi 
] 
[10] This man created another school of thought, which focused on utilitarian values and the concept of jian 
ai, or an impartial care. 
ANSWER:  
Mozi 
 [or  
Mo Di 
] 
023-09-12-16205 
6. Name these foreign rulers of Egypt, for 10 points each. 
[10] These \"shepherd-kings\" ruled from Avaris as the Fifteenth Dynasty and squabbled among themselves 
during the Second Intermediate Period. They introduced the compound bow to Egypt and were, almost 
certainly erroneously, identified as Jews by Josephus. 
ANSWER:  
Hyksos 
[10] This state, to the south of ancient Egypt, moved its capital from Napata to Meroe after being evicted 
from Egypt, which it ruled during the Twenty-Fifth Dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Nubia 
[10] Alexander's general Ptolemy took this title, meaning \"savior,\" when he assumed control over 
Hellenistic Egypt, beginning a dynasty that lasted until the Roman conquest. 
ANSWER: Ptolemy  
Soter 
019-09-12-16206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  7 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. Name the following about the historical paintings of Benjamin West, for 10 points each. 
[10] This painting depicts a crouching Indian gazing at the wounded title figure as he is surrounded by 
British soldiers in the aftermath of the Battle of the Plains of Abraham. 
ANSWER:  
The  Death of General Wolfe 
[10] West depicted unfinished western-style houses in the background of a painting that purports to show 
this man's \"Treaty with the Indians.\" This title figure presents a Native American tribe with a bolt of cloth 
from a chest. 
ANSWER: William  
Penn 
 [or  
The  Treaty of Penn with the Indians 
; or  
Penn’s Treaty with the Indians 
] 
[10] The title figure commands a soldier to confiscate a scepter as angry politicians are held at bay by 
menacing pikemen in a West painting that depicts Cromwell doing this action, which ended a legislative 
body that also underwent Pride's Purge. 
ANSWER:  
Dissolving the Long Parliament 
 [accept reasonable equivalents including  
Long Parliament 
; 
prompt on  
Dissolving Parliament 
 or equivalents that do not specify the \"Long Parliament\"; accept  
Oliver  
Cromwell Dissolving the Long Parliament 
] 
015-09-12-16207 
8. For 10 points each, answer the following about classifications of two-player games. 
[10] These types of games, which include anything in which a player can only win, lose, or draw, are 
games in which one player's loss is exactly equal to another player's gain. 
ANSWER:  
zero-sum 
 games 
[10] Tic-tac-toe and chess are examples of games that have this property. In games with this property, both 
players know the current state of the game and the exact sequence of all previous moves. 
ANSWER:  
perfect information 
[10] An unfair game is one in which one player is guaranteed to win as long as he or she employs one of 
these sequences of moves. In general, these guarantee the player the best possible result given his or her 
opponent's moves. 
ANSWER:  
optimal strategies 
 [prompt on  
winning strategies 
; do not accept or prompt on \"strategy\" by 
itself] 
003-09-12-16208 
9. The discovery of series of these corresponding to gaseous elements provided early evidence of quantum 
theory since they seemingly appeared only at integer multiples of a given wavelength. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these entities consisting of coherent photons emitted by atoms during electron transitions. 
ANSWER: spectral  
line 
s [or emission  
line 
s] 
[10] According to the Bohr quantum theory, spectral lines are emitted when an electron changes value for 
this dimensionless quantity. To first order, the electron energy level is given by the ground state energy 
over this quantity squared. 
ANSWER: the  
principle quantum number 
 [accept  ] 
n 
[10] In this effect, a spectral line is split in the presence of an external magnetic field. 
ANSWER:  
Zeeman 
 [SAY-mon] effect 
024-09-12-16209 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  8 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. For 10 points each, name these Italian poets. 
[10] Sir Thomas Wyatt translated many of the poems from this author's collection  
Canzoniere 
 into English. 
A type of sonnet named for this humanist consists of an octave and a sestet, and begins with the rhyme 
scheme a-b-b-a-a-b-b-a. 
ANSWER:  
Petrarch 
 [or Francesco  
Petrarcha 
] 
[10] Schopenhauer was strongly impressed by this this nineteenth century romantic poet's pessimistic 
collection  
Zibaldone 
. This poet's collection  
Canti 
 includes his poems \"To Silvia\" and \"The Infinite.\" 
ANSWER: Giacomo  
Leopardi 
[10] This author's persecution mania led Duke Alfonso II of Ferrara to send him to the madhouse of St. 
Anna. This Renaissance poet wrote an epic in which the knights Rinaldo and Tancredi help Geoffrey de 
Bouillon besiege Jerusalem. 
ANSWER: Torquato  
Tasso 
004-09-12-16210 
11. Member states of this Impington, England-headquartered organization can opt out of any regulation by 
opposing it within 90 days. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this multi-country organization that called a 1986 moratorium on a certain activity, though 
certain countries have partaken in that activity anyway under the pretense of science. 
ANSWER:  
International Whaling Commission 
 [prompt on  
IWC 
] 
[10] This nation is the best known for continuing to whale despite the moratorium, and has conducted 
pelagic whaling in the North Pacific and off the coast of Antarctica. 
ANSWER: Empire of  
Japan 
 [or  
Nihon 
-koku; or  
Nippon 
-koku] 
[10] This Animal Planet-featured organization that was founded by Paul Watson uses butyric acid and 
lasers to disrupt Japanese whaling operations and Canadian seal hunting. 
ANSWER:  
Sea Shepherd 
 Conservation Society 
020-09-12-16211 
12. The defection of the Free Democrats to his coalition ensured his victory over Helmut Schmidt in 1983. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Chancellor, who remained in office until 1998 and oversaw the reunification of West and 
East Germany. 
ANSWER: Helmut  
Kohl 
[10] One of the biggest controversies of Kohl's administration was a wreath-laying at a cemetery in this 
German city, which housed the graves of SS members, during a state visit from Ronald Reagan. 
ANSWER:  
Bitburg 
[10] The visit to Bitburg took place on May 8, 1985, the fortieth anniversary of this event, in which 
representatives of the Nazi government unconditionally surrendered to the Allies. 
ANSWER:  
V-E Day 
019-09-12-16212 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  9 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. The early objectives of this group were known as the Omaha Platform, and they nominated James 
Weaver for the presidency in 1892. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Gilded Age political party that supported bimetallism. 
ANSWER:  
Populist 
 Party [or  
People’s 
 Party] 
[10] This group of demands presented in 1890 demanded the free circulation of silver and the abolition of 
national banks. It is named for the Florida city in which it was given. 
ANSWER:  
Ocala 
 Demands 
[10] This Georgia politician and supporter of the Ku Klux Klan ran twice on the Populist ticket in 1904 and 
1908. 
ANSWER: Thomas Edward  
Watson 
064-09-12-16213 
14. Hubbard is a common name in American literature. For 10 points each: 
[10] Tony Nailles meets Mrs. Hubbard at a bookstore in this author’s novel  
Bullet Park 
. He wrote about the 
gun wielding secretary Ms. Dent confronting her former boss on the title train in his story “The 
Five-Forty-Eight.” 
ANSWER: John  
Cheever 
[10] This American playwright and lover of Dashiell Hammett wrote about Regina Hubbard Giddens 
refusing her sickly husband Horace his medicine after he refuses to give her the money she needs for an 
investment in a cotton mill in her play  
The Little Foxes 
ANSWER: Lillian  
Hellman 
[10] This author wrote about a novel about the romance between Marcia Gaylord and the journalist Bartley 
Hubbard. Known as \"the father of American realism,\" he may be best known for his novel about a Boston 
paint magnate whose older daughter falls in love with Tom Corey. 
ANSWER: William Dean  
Howells 
015-09-12-16214 
15. Name some things about Utgard-Loki, for 10 points each. 
[10] Utgard-Loki tricked this god into trying to drink the entire ocean. This thunder god wielded the 
hammer Mjollnir. 
ANSWER:  
Thor 
 [accept  
Tonger 
; or  
Thunaraz 
; or  
Donar 
] 
[10] Utgard-Loki made this servant of Thor and brother of Röskva race Hugi, who beat him because Hugi 
was thought incarnate. 
ANSWER:  
Thialfi 
[10] Thor tried to lift a cat at Utgard-Loki's palace, which turned out to be this serpent who encircles the 
earth. 
ANSWER:  
Jormungand 
r [prompt on  
Midgard Serpent 
] 
026-09-12-16215 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  10 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. Uliana is the mistress of the patriarch of one linen factory owning family created by this man. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this author who wrote a play in which the mysterious traveler Luka's disappearance causes an 
unnamed alcoholic actor to hang himself. 
ANSWER: Maxim  
Gorky 
 [or Aleksey Maksimovich  
Peshkov 
] 
[10] Gorky subtitled this play “Scenes from Russian Life,” depicting in it the plight of locksmith Kleshtch, 
The Baron, and Nastya, who live in the title cellar-like boarding house. 
ANSWER:  
The  Lower Depths 
 [or  
Na dne 
] 
[10] This German adapted Gorky’s  
The Mother 
 into a play. He also collaborated with Kurt Weill on a 
musical about Macheath and Polly Peachum,  
The Threepenny Opera 
ANSWER: Eugen Bertolt Friedrich  
Brecht 
020-09-12-16216 
17. Group one of these use a exogenous guanosine to catalyze their own removal. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these sections of a gene that don't code for protein and contrast with exons. 
ANSWER:  
intron 
s 
[10] Introns in an mRNA strand can be removed by one of these lariat-shaped structures that contains five 
snRNA molecules. 
ANSWER:  
spliceosome 
s 
[10] This process is conceptually similar to splicing, but involves the rearrangement of DNA using RAG to 
create different antibodies during B-cell development. 
ANSWER:  
VDJ 
 recombination [or  
VJ 
 recombination] 
001-09-12-16217 
18. He expanded ideas first put forth by Julian Rotter in his book  
Social Learning Theory 
. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this psychologist who found that children imitate aggressive behavior in adults in his Bobo doll 
experiment. 
ANSWER: Alfred  
Bandura 
[10] Bandura conducted experiments like the Bobo doll study at this university, which was also home to a 
namesake \"prison experiment.\" 
ANSWER:  
Stanford 
 University 
[10] This Stanford psychology professor coauthored  
The Person and the Situation 
 along with Richard 
Nisbett. He performed the original study that investigated the false consensus effect, and coined the term 
\"fundamental attribution error.\" 
ANSWER: Lee  
Ross 
032-09-12-16218 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  11 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. This author's travels in Mexico inspired his novel  
The Plumed Serpent 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this British author whose novels  
The Rainbow 
 and  
Lady Chatterley's Lover 
 were banned for 
their frank depictions of sex. 
ANSWER: David Herbert  
Lawrence 
[10] In this novel, Lawrence contrasts the unhealthy relationship between Gudrun Brangwen and Gerald 
Crich with the supportive relationship between Ursula Brangwen and Rupert Birkin. It follows the events in 
The Rainbow 
. 
ANSWER:  
Women in Love 
[10] The final chapter in Lawrence's  
Studies in Classic American Literature 
 praises this poet's \"essential 
message\" of \"the Open Road.\" The protagonist of Maxine Hong Kingston's  
Tripmaster Monkey 
 is named 
for this poet. 
ANSWER: Walt  
Whitman 
004-09-12-16219 
20. This instrument was played by Ray Still, Marcel Tabuteau, and Antonio Pasculli, who was known as 
\"the Paganini\" of it. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this woodwind instrument manufactured by firms such as Howarth, Laubin, and F. Lorée. 
Mozart adapted his C major concerto for this instrument into his D major flute concerto. 
ANSWER:  
oboe 
s 
[10] This French composer included a conversation between an English horn and an offstage oboe in the 
third movement of his  
Symphonie fantastique 
. 
ANSWER: Hector  
Berlioz 
[10] This composer wrote  
A Fugal Concerto 
 for flute, oboe, and string quartet. He composed a \"Fantasy on 
the Dargason\" for his  
Second Suite in F for Military Band 
, a companion piece to his  
First Suite in E flat 
major for Military Band 
. 
ANSWER: Gustav  
Holst 
004-09-12-16220 
21. He was the first man to use the title \"King of England.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this king, who succeeded Stephen of Blois and supposedly ordered the death of Thomas Becket. 
ANSWER:  
Henry II 
 of England [prompt on  
Henry 
; accept  
Henry Curtmantle 
 or  
Henry Fitz-Empress 
] 
[10] Henry II was the first king of this English dynasty, whose branches of York and Lancaster fought the 
Wars of the Roses. 
ANSWER: House of  
Plantagenet 
 [prompt on First House of  
Anjou 
] 
[10] Henry II married Eleanor of Aquitaine two months after Eleanor's marriage to this King of France, 
nicknamed \"The Younger,\" was annulled. 
ANSWER:  
Louis VII 
 of France [prompt on  
Louis 
] 
026-09-12-16221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 16     Page  12 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
