2013 Colonia 
Round 3 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. James Michael Curley served four terms as mayor of this city despite being in prison for part of them. In 
the 1970s, this city experienced a series of race riots after Judge W. Arthur Garrity mandated a busing plan. 
The Lowell and Cabot families were part of the aristocracy dominating this city in the nineteenth century 
nicknamed its \"Brahmins.\" In this city, which experienced a deadly molasses flood in 1919, Whitey Bulger 
was a prominent leader of the Irish Mob. Name this city where, in 1773, the Sons of Liberty protested 
against British taxes during a Tea Party. 
ANSWER:  
Boston 
080-13-84-03101 
2. In one poem, this author predicts that \"the golden Muses have truly blessed me, I shall not be forgotten 
after death.\" A stanza of one short line followed by three long ones is named for this poet, who described 
summoning a goddess borne on doves to avenge a spurned lover in the \"Ode to Aphrodite.\" Classical 
sources describe this author exchanging work with Alcaeus and throwing herself off the Leucadian cliffs to 
her death. Like the later Corinna, she was called the \"tenth Muse.\" Name this ancient Greek poet from the 
island of Lesbos. 
ANSWER:  
Sappho 
019-13-84-03102 
3. This man played Bette Midler’s scheming husband Sam Stone in the 1986 movie  
Ruthless People 
. In 
another movie, he plays a character who Max Shrek attempts to make mayor and later attempts to kill the 
first-born sons of Gotham City. He currently plays a character who sings doowop as a member of the 
Yellow Jacket Boys and is the father of Dennis, Dee, and possibly Charlie. His breakout role came as the 
dispatcher Louie De Palma in  
Taxi. 
 Name this actor who played the Penguin in  
Batman Returns 
 and 
currently stars as Frank Reynolds on  
It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia 
ANSWER: Danny  
DeVito 
030-13-84-03103 
4. Anticlus almost revealed the secret of this object after a woman imitated several voices. One person who 
was suspicious of this object proclaimed “Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes” (tim-EY-oh dah-NAH-ohs et 
DOH-nah feh-RENT-eyz). Laocoon (lay-AH-co-awn) was killed by serpents after denouncing this object, 
which was presented by Sinon. It was built by Epeius at the urging of Odysseus, after ten years of war. 
Identify this large wooden animal which secretly contained Greek soldiers. 
ANSWER:  
Trojan Horse 
019-13-84-03104 
5. This experiment used a zinc sulfide screen attached to a microscope as a detector. The incident particles 
for it were generated from the decay of radon. This experiment was used to disprove the plum pudding 
model. Its results were compared to \"firing a howitzer at tissue paper and having it reflect back at you.\" 
Name this experiment that used alpha particles to show that an atom contains a central nucleus, performed 
by a British physicist. 
ANSWER: Rutherford's  
gold foil 
 experiment [or  
Geiger-Marsden 
 experiment; or  
Rutherford 
experiment] 
048-13-84-03105 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  1 of 18 
6. In a price-versus-quantity graph of this market structure, the point at which marginal cost equals average 
revenue occurs at the right side of a triangle that represents a deadweight loss to consumer surplus. When 
extremely high barriers to entry are present, such as in telephone or water distribution networks, the 
\"natural\" form of this structure arises. Identify this microeconomic structure which occurs when a market 
has only one seller. 
ANSWER:  
monopoly 
019-13-84-03106 
7. This thinker discussed the role of names as marks which aid one's memory in his  
De Corpore. 
 His 
best-known book contains a chapter on the \"Kingdom of Darkness.\" He delineated the concept of the \"war 
of all against all.\" His magnum opus describes life as being \"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.\" 
Identify this English philosopher who advocated for absolute sovereignty in his  
Leviathan 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Hobbes 
189-13-84-03107 
8. One novel by this author ends with a \"Ride of the Kings,\" a noble tradition which Vladimir ignores, 
preferring to watch motorcycles. In that novel, Marketa receives a postcard reading, \"Optimism is the 
opiate of the people\" and \"Long live Trotsky\" from Ludvik Jahn. Characters in another of this author's 
novels include a dog that dies of cancer, named Karenin, as well as a professor from Geneva named Franz. 
This author of wrote about Tomas marrying Tereza in the shadow of the Prague Spring. Name this Czech 
novelist of  
The Unbearable Lightness of Being. 
ANSWER: Milan  
Kundera 
190-13-84-03108 
9. Forces supporting this ruler were victorious in the Battle of Villalar during the Revolt of the Comuneros. 
As a child, this man was tutored by the future Pope Adrian VI and raised by his aunt Margaret of Austria. 
This ruler succeeded his mother Joanna the Mad on one throne, and he was the last ruler crowned by the 
Pope on another throne. Name this Hapsburg ruler who was both King of Spain and Holy Roman Emperor, 
and who presided over the Diet of Worms attended by Martin Luther. 
ANSWER:  
Charles V 
 of the Holy Roman Empire [or  
Charles I 
 of Spain; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
153-13-84-03109 
10. One of this author’s characters is rescued with his manservant Conseil and the Canadian harpoonist 
Ned Land after the sinking of the  
Abraham Lincoln. 
 Another of his characters marries the Indian princess 
Aouda, is pursued by the detective Inspector Fix, and is served by Passepartout. One novel by this author 
concerns the submerged  
Nautilus 
 and its Captain Nemo. Name this French author of  
Around the World in 
Eighty Days 
 and  
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. 
ANSWER: Jules  
Verne 
015-13-84-03110 
11. Elements can be extracted from this data structure in a process called slicing. When most of the values 
are zero, this data structure is said to be sparse. A hash table is the most common way to implement the 
associative type of this data structure, which associates an arbitrary key with a value. These data structures 
are indexed according to pointer arithmetic. When one-dimensional, these data structures are called vectors, 
and they usually contain elements of only one data type. Identify these data structures analogous to 
matrices that store data in a contiguous address space. 
ANSWER:  
array 
s 
066-13-84-03111 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  2 of 18 
12. In the 1950s, Semyon Bogatyrev completed this man’s abandoned symphony in E-flat. Between his 
fourth and fifth symphony, he depicted the guilt-stricken lover of Astarte wandering in the Alps in his  
Manfred 
 symphony. He included the dueling \"La Marseillaise\" and \"God Save the Tsar\" anthems in a work 
topped off with cannon-fire. Name this composer of the  
Pathétique Symphony 
, who depicted the defeat of 
Napoleon in his  
1812 Overture. 
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich  
Tchaikovsky 
019-13-84-03112 
13. The site for this city was chosen after one man saw twelve vultures. In the underworld, Anchises told 
his son that his descendants would rule this place. It was founded by the sons of Rhea Silvia, who were 
saved by a she-wolf after being left to die of exposure. One of is founders killed the other in an argument 
over building a wall. Wives for its original settlers were taken from the Sabines at a festival for Neptune. 
Name this city, legendarily founded by Romulus and Remus. 
ANSWER:  
Rome 
121-13-84-03113 
14. This character was raised by his Aunt Clara and hallucinates her scolding him at the end of the novel he 
appears in. This man was chased out of Weed on accusations of rape and is given a puppy by the “jerkline 
skinner” Slim. This figure’s fate is foreshadowed by the death of Candy’s dog. Constantly dreaming of 
being able to take care of the rabbits, he loves to pet soft things and accidentally breaks the neck of 
Curley’s wife. For 10 points, name this mentally disabled ranch hand who is shot by his friend George at 
the conclusion of  
Of Mice and Men. 
ANSWER:  
Lennie 
 Small [or Lennie  
Small 
] 
052-13-84-03114 
15. One member of this dynasty survived a series of rebellions known as the Fronde. Another king from 
this dynasty arranged for the assassination of Concino Concini. The founder of this dynasty was 
assassinated by Francois Ravaillac and enacted the Edict of Nantes. One king of this dynasty had Madame 
de Pompadour as a mistress. The cardinals Richelieu and Mazarin served kings of this dynasty, one of 
whom declared \"I am the state!\" Name this French dynasty that was founded by Henry IV and included 
Louis XIV. 
ANSWER: House of  
Bourbon 
186-13-84-03115 
16. One poet from this nation wrote the lines \"Before you, mother Idoto, naked I stand,\" in his work 
\"Heavensgate.\" A playwright from this nation described the contest between Lakunle and Baroka for Sidi's 
hand in marriage in  
The Lion and the Jewel. 
 That playwright described Olunde's suicide in  
Death and the 
King's Horseman. 
 Ikemefuna dies in a novel from this country that centers on Okonkwo. Name this country 
home to Christopher Okigbo, Wole Soyinka, and the author of  
Things Fall Apart, 
 Chinua Achebe. 
ANSWER:  
Nigeria 
 [or Federal Republic of  
Nigeria 
] 
192-13-84-03116 
17. One type of these compounds can be used to bring ionic salts into an organic phase and are called the 
\"phase transfer\" type of them. One mole per second is the namesake SI unit describing the function of these 
species. In hydrogenations, noble metals often serve this purpose. These compounds do not change the 
position of an equilibrium, and they work by lowering the activation energy barrier for a reaction. In 
biology, protein ones are called enzymes. Name these species which speed up chemical reactions. 
ANSWER:  
catalyst 
s 
190-13-84-03117 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  3 of 18 
18. This poet described a train as “punctual as a star” and “docile and omnipotent” in a poem which begins 
“I like to see it lap the miles.” In another poem, she wrote that “to comprehend a nectar requires sorest 
need.” Much of her innovative punctuation and capitalization was edited out of her poems in an edition 
published by her mentor Thomas Wentworth Higginson. She wrote “The stillness in the room was like the 
stillness in the air” in a poem beginning “I heard a fly buzz when I died.” Name this reclusive 
Massachusetts poet of a poem that opens, “Because I could not stop for Death.” 
ANSWER: Emily  
Dickinson 
015-13-84-03118 
19. When this property is present in a molecule, one set of atomic orbitals are depicted at a higher energy 
on an MO diagram. This property occurs when two atoms have a difference of greater than 0.4 on the 
Pauling scale. Boron trifluoride does not possess this property because it has a trigonal planar geometry, so 
the moments cancel out. Carbon-hydrogen bonds don't have this property because they have very similar 
electronegativities. Name this property in which a molecule has partially positive and partially 
negatively-charged regions because atoms in bonds aren't shared equally. 
ANSWER:  
polar 
ity [or word forms] 
190-13-84-03119 
20. This sub-national political division contains a large collection of distance markers at the \"Sign Forest\" 
outside of Watson Lake. Herschel Island, which lies just off the northern coast of this political division's 
mainland, is in the Beaufort Sea. In the southwest of this political division, the Kluane National Park 
contains a peak of the St. Elias Mountains, Mount Logan. The towns of Burwasli Landing, Sulphur, Forty 
Mile, and Glacier Creek lie on its western border with the United States. Dawson and Whitehorse are also 
found within what northwesternmost territory of Canada, which borders Alaska? 
ANSWER:  
Yukon 
 [or the  
Yukon 
 Territory] 
019-13-84-03120 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  4 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 3 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. When multiplied on both sides by a matrix A, the matrix denoted by \"pseudo-\" this term is equal to A. In 
traditional logic, it is a conditional sentence that is the contrapositive of the converse. When applied to the 
output of a function f, a function of this type yields the argument to f. It is the element of a set that yields 
the identity of that set, giving zero and one for addition and multiplication, respectively. Name this 
operation usually signified by a superscript negative one. 
ANSWER:  
inverse 
066-13-84-03121 
2. While at Coldwater II near this location, David Johnston became the first person to report an event here, 
radioing \"This is it!\" before his death. Reid Blackburn, a photographer for National Geographic, was eight 
miles away from this location when that event occurred. The Toutle River was filled with sediment after 
this peak's north face fell away early in the morning on May 18, 1980. Name this volcanic peak that erupted 
and killed 57 people in the state of Washington. 
ANSWER:  
Mount Saint Helens 
023-13-84-03122 
3. One unsuccessful assassin in this modern-day country tried to jump into a river near the Latin Bridge, 
only to find it was five inches deep. In this country, Dutch peacekeepers failed to protect a UN-designated 
safe haven from massacre at Srebrenica, a largely Muslim town. This modern-day nation is where Black 
Hand affiliate Gavrilo Princip took aim at the Austro-Hungarian empire's heir apparent. Name this former 
Yugoslav state attacked in the 1990s by Croats and Serbs, with capital at Sarajevo. 
ANSWER:  
Bosnia 
 and Herzegovina [or  
Bosna 
 i Hercegovina] 
104-13-84-03123 
4. Because this force is non-renormalizable, generating a quantum field theory of it is impossible. Radiation 
generated by this force requires a quadrupole (KWAH-droo-POLE) source. One constant that defines this 
force was measured using a torsion balance by Henry Cavendish; that value is equal to 6.67 times 10 to the 
negative 11. This force bends spacetime according to general relativity. Name this force described by 
Newton’s inverse-square law, the attractive force between two bodies. 
ANSWER:  
gravity 
048-13-84-03124 
5. The Zuavi Pontifici were formed to oppose this process, which was supported by the Expedition of the 
Thousand. This process was finalized in 1870, creating a \"prisoner\" status for Pius IX; nine years earlier, it 
triggered the re-crowning of Victor Emmanuel II. This series of events was orchestrated by Count Cavour 
and militarily aided by the Redshirts of Giuseppe Garibaldi. Identify this process that unified disparate 
states such as Piedmont and the Two Sicilies into the new Kingdom of Italy. 
ANSWER: the  
Risorgimento 
 [or descriptive answers such as the  
unification of Italy 
 until \"Italy\" is read] 
019-13-84-03125 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  5 of 18 
6. This author wrote, \"Though they sink through the sea, they shall rise again,\" in a poem in which every 
stanza begins and ends with the line, \"And death shall have no dominion.\" This author of \"Fern Hill\" wrote 
a radio drama entitled  
Under Milk Wood. 
 In one of his poems, addressed to \"you, my father, there on the 
sad height,\" the speaker believes that \"old age should burn and rave at close of day.\" That villanelle 
includes the line, \"Rage, rage, against the dying of the light.\" Name this Welsh poet of \"Do Not Go Gentle 
into That Good Night.\" 
ANSWER: Dylan  
Thomas 
 [or Dylan Marlais  
Thomas 
] 
190-13-84-03126 
7. This man led the campaign to end the Beiyang government known as the Northern Expedition. A 
suspected kidnapping plot by Li Zhilong led to this man's political feud with Wang Jingwei. He used the 
Gang Greens as paramilitaries during the \"White Terror.\" He was kidnapped by Zhang Xueliang 
(shoe-AY-lee-ahng) during the Xi'an (SHEE-ahn) incident and succeeded Sun Yat-sen. Name this 
Nationalist leader of China who was forced to flee to Taiwan after the Chinese Civil War was won by Mao 
Zedong. 
ANSWER:  
Chiang 
 Kai-shek [or  
Jiang 
 Jieshi; or  
Jiang 
 Zhongzheng; or  
Chiang 
 Chieh-shih; or  
Chiang 
Chung-cheng] 
186-13-84-03127 
8. One member of this family names the temperature at which a ferromagnetic material becomes 
paramagnetic. Two brothers with this last name discovered piezoelectricity, which would be used in a very 
sensitive electrometer to discover two new elements. A husband and wife team with this last name created 
new radioactive elements by bombarding elements with alpha particles. One person with this last name is 
the only one to have one two Nobels in the sciences. Identify this last name of the husband and wife team 
that discovered radium and polonium. 
ANSWER:  
Curie 
 [prompt on  
Joliot 
-Curie] 
066-13-84-03128 
9. This man used his father as a model for the doctor in his early painting  
Science and Charity. 
 He designed 
the sets and costumes for Erik Satie’s avant-garde ballet  
Parade. 
 He used African masks as the heads of 
prostitutes from a Barcelona street in  
Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. 
 With Georges Braque, he founded a new 
genre which used geometric forms to depict many points of view at once. Name this expatriate 
Spanish-born co-founder of Cubism. 
ANSWER: Pablo Ruiz y  
Picasso 
019-13-84-03129 
10. This author wrote about a perfume shop employee whose body is fished out of the Seine River. He also 
created a character who accidentally kills a woman when trying to shave her. In one of this author’s stories, 
the Minister D steals the title compromising document and hides it in plain sight. He pioneered the mystery 
story with a work in which two killings are committed by a sailor’s orangutan. Name this American author 
who featured detective C. Auguste Dupin in the stories “The Purloined Letter” and “The Murders in the 
Rue Morgue.” 
ANSWER: Edgar Allan  
Poe 
052-13-84-03130 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  6 of 18 
1. Name these poets. 
[5] What British Romantic wrote \"Ah, Sunflower\" as well as a poem about syphilis, \"The Sick Rose\"? 
ANSWER: William  
Blake 
[10] What American poet wrote \"To the Fringed Gentian,\" \"The Yellow Violet,\" and \"To a Waterfowl\"? 
ANSWER: William Cullen  
Bryant 
[15] What poet of \"Sunflower Sutra\" asked Walt Whitman which way his beard points in \"A Supermarket 
in California?\" 
ANSWER: Irwin Allen  
Ginsberg 
[20] Name the fellow Beat who was fictionalized as Japhy Ryder in Jack Kerouac's  
The Dharma Bums 
 and 
wrote the volume  
Turtle Island 
 plus the poems \"For Plants,\" \"Wave,\" and \"Why I Take Good Care of My 
Macintosh Computer.\" 
ANSWER: Gary  
Snyder 
186-13-84-03101 
2. Name these bankrupt companies. 
[5] What automaker narrowly avoided bankruptcy through a 1.5 billion dollar loan in 1979 from the federal 
government and formed a partnership with Daimler-Benz in 1998? 
ANSWER:  
Chrysler 
 Corporation 
[10] What investment bank's declaration of bankruptcy, the largest in history, helped to set off the financial 
crisis in September 2008? 
ANSWER:  
Lehman 
 Brothers Holdings Inc. 
[15] What recipient of a controversial $535 million loan filed for bankruptcy in 2012? 
ANSWER:  
Solyndra 
 Corporation 
[20] In 2011, what company was led out of bankruptcy after the resignation of CEO Gerard Arpey, who 
was succeeded by Tom Horton, who engineered a merger? 
ANSWER:  
American 
 Airlines 
019-13-84-03102 
3. Name these historical politicians from the American South. 
[5] Name the senator, and Jackson's first vice-president, who defended nullification in his  
South Carolina 
Exposition and Protest. 
ANSWER: John Caldwell  
Calhoun 
[10] Name the President and former Texan senator who said “we have lost the South for a generation” after 
signing the 1964 Civil Rights Act. 
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines  
Johnson 
 [or  
LBJ 
] 
[15] Who wrote a 1500-page history of his later political life while living on the estate of Sarah Ellis 
Dorsey? 
ANSWER: Jefferson Finis  
Davis 
[20] What virulent racist argued for the elimination of slavery as an impediment to Southern progress in his 
book that ignited a major 1850s controversy,  
The Impending Crisis of the South? 
ANSWER: Hinton  
Helper 
121-13-84-03103 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  7 of 18 
4. Name these jazz musicians. 
[5] Name the jazz saxophonist who recorded the albums  
Giant Steps 
 and  
My Favorite Things. 
ANSWER: John William  
Coltrane 
[10] Name the jazz musician who played a trumpet with a bent bell, a major figure in the development of 
bebop. 
ANSWER: John Birks “Dizzy”  
Gillespie 
[15] Who popularized a piece written by his mentor King Oliver, “West End Blues,” and performed 
“Heebie Jeebies?” 
ANSWER: Louis  
Armstrong 
 [or  
Satchmo 
] 
[20] What artist of  
Flutista 
 and  
Memphis Underground 
 helped popularize bossa nova in the United States 
and is often regarded as the greatest jazz flute player of all time? 
ANSWER: Herbie  
Mann 
 [or Herbert Jay  
Solomon 
] 
140-13-84-03104 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  8 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 3 
Letter D 
Letter P 
Letter B 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  9 of 18 
Letter D 
[10] What linguistics term refers to a combination of the sound of two vowels? 
ANSWER:  
diphthong 
[10] What scientist is the namesake of the physical effect that causes wave frequency to change when the 
wave source is in motion relative to an observer, changing the colors of distant galaxies and the sound of 
passing cars? 
ANSWER: Christian Andreas  
Doppler 
[10] What three-word Latin phrase refers to the \"god from the machine\" who descends to sort out the plot 
of Classical plays? 
ANSWER: \" 
deus ex machina 
\" 
[10] Name the French composer of the ballet  
Coppelia 
 who created the \"Flower Duet\" for his opera  
Lakme. 
ANSWER: Leo  
Delibes 
[10] The Golden Mile and an International Convention Centre that commonly hosts multinational 
organizations are found in what third-most-populous city in South Africa? 
ANSWER:  
Durban 
[10] Name the philosopher who wrote \"Je pense donc je suis\" or \"I think therefore I am\" in his  
Discourse 
on Method. 
ANSWER: Rene  
Descartes 
[10] Derived from the name of a third-century Greek mathematician, what adjective refers to algebraic 
equations which have only integer solutions? 
ANSWER:  
Diophantine 
[10] King Midas was given the ears of what animal after preferring Marsyas to Apollo in a music contest? 
ANSWER:  
donkey 
[10] Name the Southern Conference basketball team that reached the Elite Eight of the NCAA tournament 
in 2008 behind the play of Stephen Curry. 
ANSWER:  
Davidson 
 University 
[10] The physical law showing that specific heat for all solid materials is roughly similar when expressed in 
terms of Joules per mole times Boltzmann's constant is named for Alexis Petit and what other French 
scientist? 
ANSWER: Pierre Louis  
Dulong 
019-13-84-0310-3 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  10 of 18 
Letter P 
[10] What saint wrote epistles to the Romans and the Corinthians? 
ANSWER: Saint  
Paul 
 [or  
Saul 
] 
[10] What English royal house was inaugurated by Henry II? 
ANSWER: House of  
Plantagenet 
[10] What toy manufacturer makes board games like  
Monopoly 
? 
ANSWER:  
Parker Brothers 
[10] What literary term, coming from the Greek for \"too much\" denotes the rhetorical use of more words 
than are necessary to convey a point? 
ANSWER:  
pleonasm 
[10] What British Ambassador to the United States signed a treaty with John Hay nullifying the 
Clayton-Bulwer Treaty? 
ANSWER: Julian  
Pauncefote 
, 1st Baron Pauncefote 
[10] What American author wrote the  
USA Trilogy 
? 
ANSWER: John  
Dos Passos 
[10] What geologic epoch featured the last glacial period? 
ANSWER:  
Pleistocene 
 epoch 
[10] What organ functions as a gland producing insulin and somatostatin? 
ANSWER:  
Pancreas 
[10] What volcano on the island of Luzon in the Philippines erupted in 1991? 
ANSWER: Mount  
Pinatubo 
[10] What Greek god lived in Arcadia and had the legs and horns of a goat? 
ANSWER:  
Pan 
080-13-84-0310-3 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  11 of 18 
Letter B 
[10] What early Renaissance painter created  
Primavera 
? 
ANSWER: Sandro  
Botticelli 
 (or Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni  
Filipepi 
) 
[10] What abolitionist conducted the raid on Harpers Ferry in West Virginia? 
ANSWER: John  
Brown 
[10] What rap group lost member MCA to cancer in 2012? 
ANSWER:  
Beastie Boys 
[10] What poet of \"My Last Duchess\" married Elizabeth Barrett? 
ANSWER: Robert  
Browning 
[10] What domain of life uses conjugation as a method of DNA transfer? 
ANSWER:  
bacteria 
[10] In Greek myth, who killed the Chimera? 
ANSWER:  
Bellerophon 
[10] What Chief Justice of the Supreme Court presided over  
Roe v. Wade 
? 
ANSWER: Warren Earl  
Burger 
[10] This is the term for the study of the mechanics of projectiles. 
ANSWER:  
ballistic 
s 
[10] Minsk is the capital of what nation? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Belarus 
 or  
Bielarus 
[10] What Scottish poet wrote \"A Red, Red Rose\" and \"Auld Lang Syne\"? 
ANSWER: Robert  
Burns 
 or Robbie  
Burns 
 or Rabbie  
Burns 
 or  
Robden of Solway Firth 
088-13-84-0310-3 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  12 of 18 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  13 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 3 
20 20-Point Tossups 
1. This author wrote a dialogue in which Vivian tells Cyril that art reveals \"nature's lack of design,\" \"The 
Decay of Lying.\" In a novel by this man, Lord Henry Wotton corrupts the title character with a \"yellow 
book,\" and the title character manages to stay young while a painting of him grows old. He also wrote a 
comedy in which Jack and Algernon both wish to have the title name. For 20 points, name this Victorian 
author of  
The Picture of Dorian Gray. 
ANSWER: Oscar  
Wilde 
 [or Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills  
Wilde 
] 
080-13-84-03101 
2.  
N equitans 
 is the only organism in one phylum of this taxon. Carl Woese first identified and classified 
this group of organisms. Organisms in this taxon have ether, rather than ester bonds, to fatty acids, and their 
fatty acids are branched. They have pseudomurein, rather than peptidoglycan, in their cell walls. Halophiles 
and methanogens are categorized into this taxon, which also contains a group of organisms which can live 
in hot springs. This prokaryotic domain was separated from Bacteria in 1977. For 20 points, name this 
group of unicellular extremophile organisms. 
ANSWER:  
Archaea 
190-13-84-03102 
3. One portion of this document concerned the removal of fish-weirs from waterways, and another portion 
of this document concerns the levying of \"scutage\" money. This document was signed a year after the 
Battle of Bouvines, and one of its clauses led to the First Barons' War. This document codified the right of 
habeas corpus and limited the power of the English throne. For 20 points, identify this document signed at 
Runnymeade. 
ANSWER:  
Magna Carta 
 [prompt on  
Great Charter 
] 
189-13-84-03103 
4. After a great battle, this god defeated the \"mist calf\" and its creator, Hrungnir. In the Thrymskvida, this 
owner of Megingjard (muh-GIN-yard) dressed as a woman to regain a prized possession. This god rides on 
a chariot pulled by two goats, whose names mean \"gap-tooth\" and \"tooth-grinder.\" This figure went fishing 
with Hymir, who cut his line before he could capture the Midgard Serpent. His wife Sif had her hair stolen 
by Loki. For 20 points, name this Norse deity whose hammer comes back to him whenever he throws it. 
ANSWER:  
Thor 
186-13-84-03104 
5. An artist from this country depicted a gladiator who is receiving the thumbs down from the crowd in his 
painting  
Pollice Verso 
. Another artist from this country depicted himself in a top hat, running in front of a 
column of smoke in a painting that includes a kid brandishing two pistols as he walks over dead bodies and 
partially nude woman holding the tricolor flag. For 20 points, name this country, home to the painter of  
Liberty Leading the People. 
ANSWER:  
France 
149-13-84-03105 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  14 of 18 
6. This President defended a newly-announced dam from accusations that it was a pork-barrel project by 
saying \"a rising tide lifts all boats.\" Ted Sorensen wrote many speeches for this President, including one 
given at American University to announce the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. At Rice University, he said some 
decisions were made \"not because they are easy, but because they are hard.\" Many people mistakenly 
believed he called himself a jelly doughnut during a speech in Berlin. For 20 points, name this President 
who, in his inaugural address, said \"Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for 
your country.\" 
ANSWER:  ohn Fitzgerald  
J Kennedy 
 [or  ack  
J Kennedy 
; or  
JFK 
; prompt on  
Kennedy 
] 
020-13-84-03106 
7. The synthesis of this compound requires tyrosine-194 to bind to its single reducing end. The synthesis of 
this compound uses UDP-conjugated monomers to form alpha-1,4-linkages, and a branching enzyme to 
generate alpha-1,6 linkages. This compound is broken down in response to glucagon, and it provides 
energy for about 6 hours during a fast. For 20 points, name this polymer of glucose, which is stored in the 
liver and often called animal starch. 
ANSWER:  
glycogen 
048-13-84-03107 
8. One king from this house was an ineffective ruler due to injuries sustained when he was kicked by a 
horse; that was Robert III. An attempt to restore this house to one throne it controlled included the Fifteen 
and Forty-Five Rebellions and was known as Jacobitism. This house's last reigning monarch was Queen 
Anne, whose childless death led George I of Hanover to take the throne. For 20 points, identify this ruling 
house of Scotland and England, whose rulers also included James I and Charles I. 
ANSWER: House of  
Stuart 
 [or  
Stuart 
s] 
019-13-84-03108 
9. These objects gain their most notable property due to their outer layer of doubly ionized helium 
expanding, becoming less opaque, then collapsing due to gravity; that occurs in the kappa mechanism. 
While doing work on the Magellanic Cloud, Henrietta Leavitt discovered the intrinsic relationship between 
these objects' period and luminosity, which allows them to be used to determine distances. For 20 points, 
name these variable stars that are often used as standard candles. 
ANSWER:  
Cepheid 
 variables [prompt on  
variable 
s stars] 
048-13-84-03109 
10. Some authorities assert that this object symbolizes the four exiles in Babylon, Persia, Greece, and 
Rome. It displays an acronym for the phrase \"nes gadol hayah sham” (NESS gah-DOLE hi-AH SHAHM), 
meaning “a great miracle happened there.” Depending on which letter is facing up, players of this object 
may contribute, do nothing, or take half or all of the pot. For 20 points, identify this top-like device which 
is used to play a traditional game on Hannukah. 
ANSWER: a  
dreidel 
019-13-84-03110 
11. One ruler of this name succeeded his brother Simeon the Proud and was known as \"the Meek.\" The first 
ruler of this name persuaded the head of the Russian Orthodox Church to move to Moscow, and was known 
for his financial shrewdness as \"Moneybags.\" The third or \"Great\" ruler of this name broke away from 
Mongol lordship. For 20 points, give this name of four princes of Moscow, the last of whom lost the 
Livonian War, was the first tsar of Russia, and was called \"Grozny.\" 
ANSWER:  
Ivan 
019-13-84-03111 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  15 of 18 
12. One of these pieces by this composer was, like a serenade bearing the same nickname, dedicated to a 
Salzburg family. Another of these pieces by this composer contains a distinctive five-voice fugato and was 
given its popular nickname by Johann Peter Salomon. The only two minor-key works of this type by this 
composer include the 25th and \"the great G minor,\" which opens E-flat, D, D, E-flat, D, D, E-flat, D, D, 
B-flat. For 20 points, the 40th is the penultimate of what set of works, which includes the Jupiter? 
ANSWER:  
symphoni 
es by Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
 [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus 
Theophilus  
Mozart symphonies 
] 
020-13-84-03112 
13. The inventor of this product abandoned his business interests in 1960 and spent the last fourteen years 
of his life as a missionary in Bolivia. In 1962, Homer Fesperman and Charles Weagley wrote the iconic 
jingle for this product, which notes that it's \"fun for a girl or a boy.\" It was invented in 1946 by shipyard 
engineer Richard James, who demonstrated it at a Gimbel’s store using an inclined plane. For 20 points, 
identify this toy which consists of a coiled spring. 
ANSWER:  
Slinky 
019-13-84-03113 
14. This man joined with Edward Herman to statistically analyze American media sources in  
Manufacturing Consent. 
 Chapters such as \"Teaching Nicaragua a Lesson\" and \"The Crucifixion of El 
Salvador\" appear in his polemic  
What Uncle Sam Really Wants. 
 His essay  
Objectivity and Liberal 
Scholarship 
 draws parallels between what he dubs the weak American intellectual responses to the Spanish 
Civil War and the Vietnam War. For 20 points, name this strident critic of American foreign policy, who is 
also an MIT-employed linguist who wrote  
Syntactic Structures. 
ANSWER: Avram Noam  
Chomksy 
019-13-84-03114 
15. This poem states that \"heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter,\" and it describes 
\"happy, happy boughs\" that cannot shed their lives. This poem addresses its subject as \"thou foster-child of 
silence and slow time,\" after referring to it as a \"still unravished bride of quietness!\" This poem ends with 
the lines, \"Beauty is truth, truth beauty; that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.\" For 20 
points, identify this ode about a work of ancient pottery written by John Keats. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ode on a Grecian Urn 
\" 
126-13-84-03115 
16. One English king of this name was close to Hugh le Despenser and Piers Gaveston, drawing 
accusations of homosexuality. The first numbered king of this name expelled England's Jews and was 
called \"Longshanks.\" A sainted king of this name who died in 1066 was called the \"Confessor.\" A royal 
son of this name won at Poitiers and Crecy during the Hundred Years' War. For 20 points, give this name 
of six English kings and the \"Black Prince.\" 
ANSWER:  
Edward 
 [or  
Edward 
 II; or  
Edward 
 of Caernarvon; or  
Edward 
 I; or  
Edward 
 Longshanks; or  
Edward 
 the Confessor; or  
Edward 
 the Black Prince; or  
Edward 
 of Woodstock] 
104-13-84-03116 
17. In one of this author's stories, Cyrus Bourne is shot by his father Reuben at the same place where 
Reuben abandoned Roger Malvin to die. Another character created by this author is ashamed to find his 
wife Faith cavorting in the forest. This author collected those stories in  
Mosses from an Old Manse. 
Moby-Dick 
 was dedicated to this man, who began one novel by describing a rose bush next to a jail. He 
created the characters of Governor Bellingham, Roger Chillingworth, and Pearl. For 20 points, name this 
author who wrote about Hester Prynne. 
ANSWER: Nathaniel  
Hawthorne 
190-13-84-03117 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  16 of 18 
18. A photographer from this country took a picture of a glass bottle melted by extreme heat and wrote the 
book  
Pencil in the Sun. 
 A Pulitzer-winning photograph shows a right-wing radical from this country about 
to stab the leader of its socialist party during a televised debate. Joe Rosenthal took a photograph in an 
island controlled by this country that served as the model for the Marine Corps Memorial and shows six 
soldiers struggling to raise a flag. For 20 points, name this country depicted in  
Raising the Flag on Iwo 
Jima 
. 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nihon 
; or  
Nippon 
] 
080-13-84-03118 
19. A subgroup of this ethnicity uses the distinctive \"tifinagh\" alphabet, and these people speak Kabyle and 
other Amazigh languages. This ethnicity engages in a kind of political meeting called a \"jama'ah.\" 
Subgroups of these people include the Shawia, the Rif, and the Tuareg. These people, descended from the 
classical Numidians, live in the Maghreb region, and they comprised the major part of the \"Moor\" identity 
that controlled Islamic Europe in the Middle Ages. For 20 points, identify this ethnicity which is prevalent 
in Morocco and Algeria and found throughout North Africa. 
ANSWER:  
Berber 
s [or  
Amazigh 
 until it is read; or  
Imazighen 
 until \"Amazigh\" is read; or  
Tuareg 
 until 
\"Kabyle\" is read; prompt on  
Moor 
s until it is read; do not accept or prompt on \"Arabs\"] 
019-13-84-03119 
20. One member of this family was a disciple of Howard Pyle in the Brandywine School, painted the 
massive  
Apotheosis of the Family, 
 and illustrated the  
Scribner's Classics 
 series. Another member of this 
family made 247 depictions of Helga Testorf, as well as a painting in which a woman looks at a distant 
farmhouse from a position on the ground in a pink dress. For 20 points, give this surname of illustrator N.C. 
and the painter of  
Christina's World, 
 Andrew. 
ANSWER:  
Wyeth 
019-13-84-03120 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  17 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 3 
Tiebreakers 
1. For fluid flow, this quantity is equal to flow rate times pressure. For a sinusoidal signal, this quantity is 
equal to the absolute value of the amplitude squared. It is equal to current times voltage for electrical 
components. In optics, one form of it is measured with diopters. This quantity is also given by the force 
dotted by the velocity vector, and its units are Joules per second, or watts. Name this quantity equal to work 
done per unit time. 
ANSWER:  
power 
048-13-84-03151 
2. This man’s last building, the Heidi Weber Museum, is dedicated to his works. Many of his works 
include the symbol of an open hand, including a sculpture within a city he helped plan, Chandrigarh. Pierre 
Jeanneret co-designed the Villa Savoye with this architect, who worked with Oscar Niemeyer on the UN 
Headquarters. He designed a church in Ronchamp, the Notre Dame du Haut. Name this French-Swiss 
architect who postulated Five Points of Architecture in  
Towards a New Architecture. 
ANSWER: Le  
Corbusier 
192-13-84-03152 
3. This man collaborated with Alfred Kroeber to study the Yurok. Originally an art teacher, he was inspired 
to change professions after being psychoanalyzed by Anna Freud. This author of  
Gandhi’s Truth 
 invented 
\"psychohistory\" in  
Young Man Luther 
 and described his major theory, including steps such as \"ego 
integrity v. despair,\" in  
Childhood and Society. 
 Identify this psychologist who believed that each person 
progresses through eight stages of life conflict. 
ANSWER: Erik Homburger  
Erikson 
019-13-84-03153 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 Colonia     3     Page  18 of 18 
