VHSL States 2011 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One example of this type of work commands the subject to climb \"slowly, slowly!\" and is featured in 
J.D. Salinger's  
Franny and Zooey. 
 A set of these works is collected in  
The Records of a Travel-Worn 
Satchel, 
 while many natural subjects are chronicled in a set of these works published in  
The Narrow Road 
to the Deep North. 
 The author of those collections took his name after a banana tree, which he wrote about 
in another one of these works whose first line is, \"Squalls shake the Basho.\" For 10 points, name this poetic 
form which follows a 5-7-5 syllabic pattern. 
ANSWER:  
haiku 
081-11-25-05101 
2. Advocates for this law included Alice Lakey and Harvey Wiley, who was its first administrator during 
his tenure as head of the Department of Chemistry of the USDA. A case based on this law was brought 
against \"forty barrels and twenty kegs of Coca-Cola\" and centered on the use of caffeine. This law 
prohibited \"adulterating\" or \"misbranding\" the title products. For 10 points, name this act which, along with 
the Meat Inspection Act of 1906, was inspired by Upton Sinclair's muckraking novel  
The Jungle 
, and 
which regulated pharmaceutical and edible products at the federal level. 
ANSWER: Pure  
Food and Drug 
 Act of 1906 
082-11-25-05102 
3. This man's final work was a five-volume history of the life of George Washington. More famous fiction 
works published by this man include  
Tales of the Alhambra, 
 as well as story about a man who gets into 
trouble after announcing his loyalty to King George, not knowing about the occurrence of the American 
Revolution. Another story by this man tells of the witness of a frightening rider by the schoolteacher 
Ichabod Crane. For 10 points, name this American author who wrote \"Rip Van Winkle\" and \"The Legend 
of Sleepy Hollow.\" 
ANSWER: Washington  
Irving 
081-11-25-05103 
4. Giovanni Riccioli was the first to note the so-called “Ashen light” glow emanating from this object. 
Japan attempted to send the craft Akatsuki or “Planet-C” to this object. This object contains the regions 
Alpha and Beta Regio, and its highest point is Maxwell Montes. Aside from Earth’s moon, this is the 
brightest natural object in the night sky. This planet’s atmospheric mass is almost entirely carbon dioxide, 
even though its size is very similar to Earth’s, leading to its nickname of “Earth’s twin.” For 10 points, 
name this second planet from the Sun. 
ANSWER:  
Venus 
052-11-25-05104 
5. Writer Stefan Fatsis spent a training camp with this team learning to play placekicker, as chronicled in  
A 
Few Seconds Of Panic 
. The title of that book comes from a quote by this team's former placekicker Jason 
Elam, and recent Hall of Fame inductees from this team include lineman Gary Zimmerman and tight end 
Shannon Sharpe. This team recently hired John Fox to replace Josh McDaniels at head coach. For 10 
points, name this NFL team which won two Super Bowls under John Elway and plays at Mile High 
Stadium in Colorado. 
ANSWER:  
Denver Broncos 
   [accept either] [accept  
A Few Seconds of Panic 
 before mention] 
082-11-25-05105 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One unique property of this region is its ability to sustain activity when confronted with interference, and 
damage to this region of the brain impairs patients' ability to successfully perform the Stroop test. This 
region is closely linked to a structure that generates fear-based responses, the amygdala, which itself is in 
the limbic system. Damage of this region can lead to difficulty in decision-making, regulating emotions, 
and social control, as was the case with Phineas Gage. For 10 points, identify this region, whose name 
reflects its location as the foremost structure in the brain. 
ANSWER:  
prefrontal cortex 
 [prompt on  
frontal lobe 
] 
081-11-25-05106 
7. This author wrote about children who “hop-scotch and jump-rope” next to a “queer old balloon man” 
who “whistles far and wee” in his poem “In Just.” In one poem, this author reveals that “the deepest secret 
nobody knows” is that “I carry your heart with me.” He concludes “how do you like your blueeyed boy 
Mister Death” in his poem “Buffalo Bill's.” He used a place “with up so floating many bells down” as the 
setting for “anyone lived in a pretty how town.” For 10 points, name this American poet known for his 
unorthodox capitalization. 
ANSWER: e.e.  
cummings 
 [or Edward Estlin  
Cummings 
] 
015-11-25-05107 
8. One of his operas includes the aria “Una voce poco fa,” which is sung by a woman Lindoro is courting. 
He composed the aria “Largo al Factotum,” where the title character of an opera repeats his name. That 
work by this man is based on a Beaumarchais play about Count Almaviva wooing Rosina with the help of 
Figaro. He also composed an opera about Gessler ordering a Swiss patriot to shoot an apple off his son’s 
head. For 10 points, name this composer of  
William Tell 
 and  
The Barber of Seville 
. 
ANSWER: Gioachino Antonio  
Rossini 
027-11-25-05108 
9. She edited the  
Journal of American Folklore 
 from 1925 until 1940. She compared the Dobu, Kwakiutl, 
and Zuni Cultures in one work, and she also authored  
Zuni Mythology 
 based on other fieldwork with that 
tribe. This student of Franz Boas discussed the “guilt” and “shame” cultures in an analysis of the society of 
Japan she wrote during World War Two. For 10 points, name this anthropologist who wrote  
Patterns of 
Culture 
 and  
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword 
. 
ANSWER: Ruth Fulton  
Benedict 
 [or Ruth  
Fulton 
] 
027-11-25-05109 
10. When expressing this English word, Urdu speakers use the word \"pathar,\" and Russians say \"kamen.\" It 
is also the meaning of the French name \"Pierre\" and the Latin word \"lapis.\" One Greek word for this lends 
its name to an ancient city in Jordan built entirely from this material. Over a hundred English words 
incorporate the root \"lith,\" from another Greek word for this English term, including the words 
\"paleolithic\" and \"neolithic,\" designating the two halves of its namesake \"age.\" For 10 points, what is this 
English word, that is also the meaning of the German surname \"Stein\" and can designate the pit of a fruit or 
a material worked by masons? 
ANSWER:  
stone 
 [or  
rock 
; or word forms of either] 
019-11-25-05110 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. Izzy Einstein disguised himself as southern colonels and gravediggers to enforce this system. George 
Remus made his fortune by manipulating loopholes in this policy. In Chicago, this policy was enforced by 
Eliot Ness and his team of \"Untouchables.\" This policy lost popularity after the death of seven men in 
Chicago in the St. Valentine’s Day massacre. It was implemented by the passage of the Volstead Act and 
the Eighteenth Amendment. For 10 points, name this poorly-enforced policy that banned alcohol. 
ANSWER:  
Prohibition 
 [or  
Eighteenth Amendment 
 before mentioned; or  
Volstead 
 Act before 
mentioned] 
080-11-25-05111 
12. In one novel by this author, Cornelius van Baerle attempts to win a cash prize by growing the title 
flower in the wake of the hanging of the DeWitt brothers. This author of  
The Black Tulip 
 created the 
servants Planchet, Grimaud, and Musqueton, and the jailer John Felton. The protagonist of one of his 
novels inadvertently schedules three duels for the same day. That character must rescue a pair of diamonds 
from the Duke of Buckingham to save Queen Anne from the machinations of Cardinal Richelieu. For 10 
points, name this French author who wrote  
The Three Musketeers 
. 
ANSWER: Alexandre  
Dumas 
, pere 
015-11-25-05112 
13. One of this city's highways is known as the Memorial Shoreway. Suburbs of this city include Euclid 
and Shaker Heights, and it sits on land once part of Connecticut's Western Reserve. Its architectural 
landmarks include the Key Tower and a museum featuring a tower and glass pyramid, but it may be better 
known for being the site of a waterway which was so polluted it caught fire, the Cuyahoga River. For 10 
points, name this home of I.M. Pei's Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and derided \"mistake on the lake\", a city 
in northeastern Ohio. 
ANSWER:  
Cleveland 
082-11-25-05113 
14. The TrkA (track a) receptor binds a growth factor for this type of cell. One model for the operation of 
these cells is the FitzHugh-Nagumo model, which was created in response to the Hodgkin-Huxley model. 
They are stained by Golgi's method. They can be afferent, efferent, or inter. Regions include the hillock and 
soma. Voltage gated channels in them allow for the propagation of action potentials. They contain dendrites 
and axons. For 10 points, name these cells of the nervous system. 
ANSWER:  
neuron 
s 
001-11-25-05114 
15. One work of literary criticism by this author grew out of a series of William E. Massey, Sr. lectures 
given at Harvard in 1990. That work focused on such novels as Mark Twain's  
Huck Finn 
 to explore the 
\"Africanist presence\" in early American literature. This author of  
Playing in the Dark 
 also wrote a novel in 
which the main character lives on Bluestone Road and is haunted by the ghost of the daughter she 
murdered. For 10 points, name this American creator of Denver and Sethe who wrote the novel  
Beloved 
. 
ANSWER: Toni  
Morrison 
 [or Chloe Anthony  
Wofford 
] 
023-11-25-05115 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  What is the term for the location at which fault rupture starts in an earthquake, which is also known as 
a hypocenter? 
ANSWER:  
focus 
1B.  What African-American author wrote about growing up in Stamps, Arkansas in her autobiographical  
I 
Know Why the Caged Bird Sings 
? 
ANSWER: Maya  
Angelou 
2A.  What third largest island in the world is divided between Brunei, Indonesia, and Malaysia? 
ANSWER:  
Borneo 
 [or  
Kalimantan 
] 
2B.  Extremophiles are a subset of what group of single-celled prokaryotic organisms that are hypothesized 
as a third domain along with bacteria and eukaryotes by Carl Woese? 
ANSWER:  
archaea 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. Completely factor the polynomial x  + 6 x - 16? 
2 
ANSWER:  
(x + 8)(x - 2) 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the probability of choosing a red face card from a 
standard deck of playing cards? Give your answer as a reduced fraction. 
ANSWER:  
3/26 
4A.  What often incoherent politician won a surprise victory in a Democratic Primary before being defeated 
by Jim DeMint for a South Carolina senate seat? 
ANSWER: Alvin  
Greene 
4B.  What German philosopher wrote  
The Phenomenology of the Mind 
 and developed the concept of the 
thesis, antithesis, and synthesis, his namesake dialectic? 
ANSWER: Georg Friedrich  
Hegel 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the volume of a cube with sides of 
length 8 that has had a rectangular prism hole of height 8 and length and width 2 removed from it? 
ANSWER:  
480 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the altitude of the equilateral triangle with sides of 
length 2 x? 
ANSWER:   square  
x root 
 of   [or square  
3 root 
 of  
3 x 
2 
] 
6A.  What French physicist names an inverse square law that governs how electrically charged particles 
interact? 
ANSWER: Charles-Augustin de  
Coulomb 
6B.  What NBC sitcom stars Joel McHale and follows a study group at Greendale Community College? 
ANSWER:  
Community 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the population standard deviation 
of the set {8, 25, 36}? 
ANSWER: square  
root 
 of  
398/3 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Completely factor x  - 1 into linear factors. Two of your 
4 
factors will be complex. 
ANSWER:  
(x - i)(x + i)(x - 1)(x + 1) 
 (in any order) 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8A.  Figures of Ruyi recur in the designs of which building, meant to evoke the images of bamboo and 
pagodas through its stacking layers, that was the world's tallest building until the opening of the Burj 
Khalifa in 2010? 
ANSWER:  
Taipei 101 
8B.  What Austrian physicist names a distribution of particle speeds with James Clerk Maxwell? 
ANSWER: Ludwig  
Boltzmann 
9A.  What Russian ruler put down Pugachev’s rebellion and was in power during all three of the partitions 
of Poland? 
ANSWER:  
Catherine the Great 
 [or  
Catherine II 
 of Russia; or  
Yekaterina Alekseyevna 
; or  
Yekaterina 
Velikaya 
; prompt on  
Catherine 
] 
9B.  What data structure uses keys to organize data around root and leaf nodes? 
ANSWER:  
tree 
s 
10A.  What Cambodian empire had kings named Jayavarman and Suryavarman and built the temple 
complex at Angkor Wat? 
ANSWER:  
Khmer 
 Empire 
10B.  Name the friend of Leopold Bloom who is also the title character in James Joyce's  
A Portrait Of The 
Artist As A Young Man 
. 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Dedalus 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Gustav Holst set music to one of this author’s poems in which “snow had fallen, snow on snow, snow on 
snow, in the bleak midwinter.” She wrote about a girl who unsuccessfully plants a “kernel-stone” after 
obeying cries of “Come buy, come buy.” That poem by this author concerns a girl named Laura who saves 
her sister Lizzie by resisting the fruit of the title characters. For 10 points, name this poet of “Goblin 
Market” who was in the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood with her brother Dante Gabriel. 
ANSWER:  hristina  
C Rossetti 
 [prompt on  
Rossetti 
] 
015-11-25-05117 
2. In December 2010, Roger Wicker introduced legislation to \"restore\" this law. An argument based on this 
law was overruled by the Supreme Court in  
U.S. v. Darby Lumber Co. 
, though the Court had attributed 
more power to it in  
Hammer v. Dagenhart 
. In  
United States v. Sprague 
, the Supreme Court ruled that this 
law \"added nothing\" to the Constitution. The powers this amendment refers to are often interpreted to 
include the Commerce Clause. The basis for many \"state sovereignty resolutions\" is, for 10 points, what 
Constitutional amendment that was the last in the Bill of Rights? 
ANSWER:  
Tenth 
 Amendment to the United States Constitution 
081-11-25-05118 
3. One important concept in this field is “diglossia,” in which “Low” and “High” varieties exist 
simultaneously. Roman Jakobson and Nikolai Trubetzkoy belonged to the Prague School, which made 
important advances in this field. Ferdinand de Saussure wrote a general course in this field, whose 
important laws include Grimm’s law. This field studies phonemes, units of sound, and morphemes, units of 
meaning. For 10 points, name this social science, which studies the nature of languages. 
ANSWER:  
linguistics 
080-11-25-05119 
4. One document named for this city concluded the Albigensian Crusade. Another signed thirty years later 
relinquished Henry III's claim to Normandy and Anjou. One treaty named after this city ended the Crimean 
War. Under the conditions of another treaty with this name, Spain ceded Guam to the United States. A 
treaty with this name acknowledged the independence of the Thirteen Colonies. For 10 points, name this 
city that gave its name to treaties that ended both the Spanish-American and the Revolutionary Wars. 
ANSWER:  
Paris 
081-11-25-05120 
5. During one battle, Hur helped to hold this man's hands in the air so that his people would prevail. This 
man went to the top of Mount Nebo to die after singing a song. This man and his older brother were 
punished for showing impatience when he was instructed to speak to a rock, but struck the rock instead to 
produce water. This husband of Zipporah spoke with the burning bush, brought the Ten Commandments 
down from Mount Sinai, and led the Israelites out of Egypt. For 10 points, name prophet who parted the 
Red Sea. 
ANSWER:  
Moses 
 [or  
Moshe 
] 
026-11-25-05121 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. This man was Director of Corporate Affaris at Carlton Communications during that company's failed 
attempt at a merger with United Business Media, and in February 2011, this man was the second person to 
field questions via YouTube's \"World View\" program. A financial agreement brokered by this man is 
called Project Merlin. This man received his most notable position after negotiation with Nick Clegg, and 
after succeeding a man who resigned in May 2010 amidst the problems of the financial crisis. For 10 
points, name this current Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. 
ANSWER: David  
Cameron 
081-11-25-05122 
7. This man wrote a series of poems with three stanzas of six lines, each which was followed up by  
His 
Toy, His Dream, His Rest 
. That work of this man featured an unnamed character in blackface and the 
alter-egos \"Henry\" and \"Mr. Bones\" and inspired many other Confessional poets. He also wrote a long 
monologue in which he imagined himself the lover of an early American poet who wrote \"To My Dear And 
Loving Husband.\" For 10 points, name this poet of \"Homage to Mistress Bradstreet\" and the  
77 Dream 
Songs 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Berryman 
082-11-25-05123 
8. This property is possessed by the constant described in Mills' theorem, and a one way of determining this 
property is by the Lucas-Lehmer test. A statement about the asymptotic incidence of this property is this 
property's namesake theorem, and the fact that every number can be written as the sum of two numbers 
with this property is given as Goldbach's conjecture. Famously subject of a proof by Euclid showing that 
there are infinitely many numbers with this property, numbers that do not have this property are called 
composite. For 10 points, name this property of a number that means it is divisible only by one and itself. 
ANSWER:  
primality 
 [or  
prime 
] 
081-11-25-05124 
9. This work is based on a series of lectures given to Newnham and Girton Colleges. The first section of 
this work features a narrator who loses a \"little fish\" of an idea after being told to stay off the Oxbridge 
grass, and later on, this work discusses  
Life's Adventure 
 by Mary Carmichael. Another section of this work 
describes the predicament of a hypothetical \"Judith Shakespeare\". For 10 points, name this essay which 
advocates for financial freedom and better education as means toward promoting more writing by women, 
by Virginia Woolf. 
ANSWER:  
A  Room of One's Own 
082-11-25-05125 
10. The wandering of this deity leading to the creation of classes of mankind is detailed in the Rigsthula. 
Another name for this figure, Gullintanni, comes from this deity’s golden teeth. This god was said to have 
senses so acute he could hear the sound of grass growing. This god fulfills his primary duty in defending 
Asgard by blowing his Gjallarhorn. For 10 points, name this Norse deity that kills and is killed by Loki at 
Ragnarok, and keeps watch over the rainbow bridge Bifrost (BUY-frost) as he waits for that day to come. 
ANSWER:  
Heimdall 
 [or  
Gullintanni 
 before mentioned] 
002-11-25-05126 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. Biorefineries use a \"reactive\" form of this technique to convert organic acids to acid esters with high 
yields. Another modification of this technique uses a namesake type of column that is packed with plates or 
beads that increase surface area. Azeotropes cannot be separated by a \"simple\" type of this process and 
must be separated by the aforementioned \"fractional\" type instead. For 10 points, name this technique of 
separating liquids based on their boiling points. 
ANSWER:  
distillation 
003-11-25-05127 
12. The gyromagnetic ratio of an electron is equal to the magnetic moment divided by this quantity. Its 
operator is equal to negative i h bar times r cross the gradient. The quantum number j corresponds to the 
total value of this. Its conservation is a consequence of the isotropy of space. Its derivative with respect to 
time is torque and Kepler's second law follows from it being conserved. It is equal to the product of 
moment of inertia and angular velocity. For 10 points, name this rotational version of momentum. 
ANSWER:  
angular momentum 
001-11-25-05128 
13. This man outlined the remaining orchestration of one of his ballets before leaving for Russia to André 
Caplet, a friend who often helped finish his works. This composer of  
The Toy Box 
 wrote a suite for his 
daughter Chou-Chou with sections named \"Doctor Gradus and Parnassum\" and \"Golliwog's Cakewalk.\" 
This composer adapted a Stéphane Mallarmé work into a successful symphonic poem. One of his pieces is 
part of his larger  
Suite Bergamasque 
. For 10 points, name this French composer of  
Children's Corner 
,  
Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun 
, and \"Clair de lune.\" 
ANSWER: Achille Claude  
Debussy 
023-11-25-05129 
14. This battle began with bloody and unsuccessful attempts on the Graveyard Road and the well-fortified 
Stockade Redan. It was followed by the fall of the nearby Port Hudson, and prompted by retreating action 
from Raymond and Champion Hill. Pemberton's Independence Day surrender at this battle caused Lincoln 
to comment that \"the Father of Waters again goes unvexed to the sea,\" as it yielded control of the 
Mississippi River to the Union. For 10 points, name this siege by Ulysses S. Grant of a Mississippi city. 
ANSWER: Siege of  
Vicksburg 
 [or Battle of  
Vicksburg 
] 
015-11-25-05130 
15. One equation that solves for this value sums the ionic radii in its denominator under their charges and is 
named for Anatoli Kapustinskii. That equation does not make use of the Madelung constant, which shows 
up in other equations for solving this value named for Born-Mayer and Born-Lande. This value cannot be 
measured directly, but it can be estimated by using the Born-Haber cycle. The energy of crystallization is 
sometimes used as the opposite of this term. For 10 points, name the type of energy released when gaseous 
ions are condensed into a solid. 
ANSWER:  
lattice 
 energy 
023-11-25-05131 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. A painting of a foggy bridge with fireworks in the background by this artist was depicted artificially high 
and is styled after a Hokusai painting. Another painting in the same series by this artist depicts fireworks at 
Cremorne Gardens. That series of  
Nocturnes 
 was derided by critic John Ruskin as this artist “flinging a pot 
of paint in the public’s face.” A woman stands on an animal skin carpet in a work painted by this advocate 
of “art for art’s sake.” For 10 points, name this artist of musically titled works such as his  
Symphony in 
White No. 1 
 and an  
Arrangement in Grey and Black 
, a portrait of his mother. 
ANSWER: James Abbott MacNeil  
Whistler 
002-11-25-05132 
2. Two answers required. In one conflict between these two civilizations, one leader interpreted a call for 
\"wooden walls\" as a call for a large navy. Another conflict between them was ended by the Peace of Callias 
after one side's stunning naval and land victory at Eurymedon. The Ionian revolt sparked one conflict 
between these nations, and battles between them were fought at Mycale and Plataea. For 10 points, name 
these two civilizations which were headed by leaders like Miltiades, Leonidas, and Xerxes when they 
squared off at Marathon and Thermopylae. 
ANSWER:  
Greece 
 and  
Persia 
 [accept  
Athens 
 for Greece before \"Callias\" is mentioned] 
015-11-25-05133 
3. This phenomenon was first noticed by Heinrich Hertz, who used a coil with a spark gap, though an early 
\"voltaic\" version of this phenomenon had been noted by Becquerel in 1839. Philipp Lenard noted this 
phenomenon's apparent contradiction of a theory proposed by Maxwell. The resolution of that problem 
posed by this effect saw the proposition of photons as quanta of light, which better explained the ejection of 
electrons noticed in this effect. For 10 points, name this physical effect that sees electrons emitted from 
matter that is struck by electromagnetic radiation, the explanation of which won Albert Einstein the 1921 
Nobel Prize in physics. 
ANSWER:  
photoelectric 
 effect 
081-11-25-05134 
4. This character suggests that winged demons make nests in preacher's cowls and explains to a traveling 
companion the reasons for the markings on the Moon. This character, the dedicatee of  
La Vita Nuova 
, only 
met the narrator of that work twice in her lifetime. She appears in a \"chariot triumphal\" to greet him and 
takes him past circles of light up to the Empyrean. For 10 points, identify this character who replaces Virgil 
as Dante's guide in  
Purgatorio 
 and  
Paradiso 
, the object of his affection. 
ANSWER:  
Beatrice Portinari 
   [accept either name] 
020-11-25-05135 
5. In the  
Glee 
 episode \"Special Education,\" Rachel refuses to sing this song's solo, leading to Mercedes and 
Tina splitting it. In the first music video for this song, the artist is woken up in a forest by a girl in a white 
dress and led to a group of people dressed as clowns. The newer music video for this song features two 
go-go dancers in the background with blue skin and gold dresses. This song begins, \"Happiness hit her like 
a train on a track.\" For 10 points, name this song re-released in 2010 after it was featured in the  
Eat Pray 
Love 
 trailer by Florence and the Machine. 
ANSWER: \" 
Dog Days Are Over 
\" 
023-11-25-05136 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
This is a calculation question. In simplest terms, at what one point do the following lines and curves meet: 
y = 3 x - 3; y = 2 x + 4 and y = x  - 3 x - 10? 
2 
ANSWER:  
(7, 18) 
023-11-25-05137 
What composer wrote the music for the operas  
Gianni Schicchi 
 and  
Tosca 
? 
ANSWER: Giacomo  
Puccini 
023-11-25-05137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2011     Round 5     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
