Colonia Tournament 
Round 5 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. The KDEL retention sequence signals which proteins remain in this organelle, and one of this organelle's 
functions is glycosylation (gly-COSS-ill-AY-shun) of proteins. COPI (cop one) and COPII (cop two) 
proteins aid in transporting proteins between the Golgi body and this organelle. The presence or absence of 
ribosomes on the surface of these organelles determines whether they are of the \"rough\" or \"smooth\" variety. 
For 10 points, name this organelle that helps fold and transport proteins. 
ANSWER:  
endoplasmic reticulum 
 [or  
ER 
] 
032-10-14-05101 
2. One figure targeted during this rebellion was the general John Neville, who was sent to oversee the 
collection of taxes. One man involved in putting down this rebellion was \"Light Horse Harry\" Lee, who had 
earlier served in the American Revolution. The militia forces gathered to put down this rebellion were led by 
the president at the time, George Washington, although no resistance was met. For 10 points, name this 
rebellion in western Pennsylvania that started after the United States government passed an excise 
(ECK-size) tax on a certain form of alcohol. 
ANSWER:  
Whiskey 
 Rebellion 
023-10-14-05102 
3. In the study of graphics, an object with this name functions as the complement to a raster. The 
Cauch-Schwarz inequality concerns the multiplication of two of these objects. The triangle inequality 
concerns the addition of these objects. These objects sum is found by the parallelogram rule. These 
generalizations of numbers are the inputs of a cross product and a dot product, and many of them feature x,y, 
and z components. For 20 points, name these quantities with a magnitude and direction, distinguished from 
scalars. 
ANSWER:  
vector 
s 
033-10-14-05103 
4. This author wrote  
Nana 
 as part of his twenty-volume series titled  
Les Rougon-Macquart 
. That series 
contains this author's novel about a coal mining strike called  
Germinal 
. This author is best-known for an 
letter to Felix Faure published in Georges Clemenceau's newspaper. That letter by this author states that an 
act of espionage was committed by Major Esterhazy and that anti-Semitism resulted in the banishment to 
Devil's Island. For 10 points, name this French author who defended Alfred Dreyfus in his letter  
J'Accuse 
. 
ANSWER: Émile Édouard Charles Antoine  
Zola 
020-10-14-05104 
5. In this film, Sid Garner gives his daughter’s fiancé a Mercedes to drive for a weekend. One character in 
this movie reads a prepared speech about how he is in a pack of lone wolves on top of his hotel. In this film, 
Ken Jeong plays the gangster Leslie Chow, who is found naked in the trunk of a car. Mike Tyson’s tiger is 
stolen by the central group, which includes the dentist Stu and the teacher Phil. This film revolves around 
Doug’s disappearance during his bachelor party. For 10 points, name this movie in which characters played 
by Justin Burtha, Bradley Cooper, and Zack Galfinakis all travel to Las Vegas. 
ANSWER:  
The  Hangover 
027-10-14-05105 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  1 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. Fluid movement across these entities is calculated by the Starling equation. In the kidney, the glomerulus 
(glo-MAIR-you-lus) is formed of these entities, whose activity was first observed by Marcello Malphigi 
(mal-FEE-gee). \"Fenestrated\" types of these structures allow small amounts of protein and small molecules 
to diffuse through them. Many of these structures are only one cell thick. Oxygen is delivered to cells by 
diffusing across the walls of these vessels. For 10 points, name these smallest blood vessels in the human 
body. 
ANSWER:  
capillaries 
 [or  
capillary 
; or  
capillary 
 bed before mentioned] 
032-10-14-05106 
7. The protagonist of this novel bakes a rope ladder into a \"witch pie\" in an attempt to rescue another 
character. A pair of con men in this work put on the play \"The Royal Nonsuch,\" and are discovered when 
they fail to describe a tattoo on the deceased Peter Wilks. The protagonist of this novel witnesses the feud 
between the Grangerfords and the Shepherdsons after escaping from his drunken father Pap. For 10 points, 
name this novel about a boy who escapes from the Widow Douglas with the slave Jim, a work by Mark 
Twain about the friend of Tom Sawyer. 
ANSWER:  
The Adventures of  Huck leberry  Finn 
015-10-14-05107 
8. The absence of these geological features can cause isostatic rebound, while the presence of these features 
can cause crust subsidence. These features make rock flour that can create milky-colored bodies of water. 
The retreat of these features can form sharp ridges called arêtes (uh-RETZ). The lower parts of these features 
are known as ablation zones, and these features use plucking and abrasion to create drumlin fields and 
eskers. For 10 points, name these large bodies of moving ice. 
ANSWER:  
glacier 
s 
036-10-14-05108 
9. This man's works include a long poetic description of a New Jersy town,  
Paterson 
. He wrote about an 
item \"glazed with rain water beside the white chickens\" in a poem in which \"so much depends upon\" that 
titular object, and in another of his poems, the speaker apologizes for \"eating all the plums that were in the 
icebox and which you were probably saving for breakfast.\" For 10 points, name this poet and physician who 
wrote \"The Red Wheelbarrow\" and \"This Is Just To Say.\" 
ANSWER: William Carlos  
Williams 
032-10-14-05109 
10. This emperor is said to have cried, \"Varus, give me back my legions,\" after a loss to Arminius at the 
Battle of Teutoburg Forest. This ruler was the subject of a philippic by Cicero. This man's general Agrippa 
was successful in the Battle of Actium over his political opponent, who formed the Second Triumvirate with 
himself and Marcus Lepidus. This emperor was succeeded by Tiberius. For 10 points, name this first 
emperor of the Roman Empire, the adopted son of Julius Caesar. 
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar  
Augustus 
 [or  
Octavian 
; or Gaius  
Octavius 
 Thurinus] 
035-10-14-05110 
11. This piece includes the song \"In the Tavern,\" in which a tenor soloist sings as a swan roasting on a spit. 
This piece was often performed before the composer's semi-staged  
Passions of Bach 
. Other songs in this 
piece include \"Court of Love\" and \"Banziflor and Helen.\" This piece was derived from a medieval collection 
of songs discovered by J.A. Schmeller in the Benediktbeuern [beh-nuh-dict-BOY-ern] monastery. For 10 
points, name this musical work that begins and ends with songs entitled \"O Fortuna\" that was written by Carl 
Orff. 
ANSWER:  
Carmina Burana 
030-10-14-05111 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  2 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This god is sometimes known as the \"drowned one,\" as he drifted in a sarcophagus across the 
Mediterranean Sea to Byblos. After being found again by his wife, his brother became jealous, and cut this 
god into fourteen pieces. Dead pharaohs were associated with this god, who is depicted as the god of the 
underworld. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god, who fathered Horus with his wife and sister Isis. 
ANSWER:  
Osiris 
003-10-14-05112 
13. Vincent Oge led a mulatto revolt in this country. This nation was terrorized by a secret police force 
known as the tonton macoutes during the reign of a father and son from 1957 to 1986. Jean Bertrand Aristide 
helped bring about the downfall of that family when \"Baby Doc\" Duvalier was forced to flee this nation in 
1986. For 10 points, name this Carribean nation in which Jacques Dessalines, Henri Christophe, and 
Toussaint L'Ouverture led a slave revolt to gain independence from France. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Haiti 
030-10-14-05113 
14. This artist depicted winged angels playing musical instruments in the side panel to his  
Virgin of the 
Rocks 
. This artist of a portrait of Ginevra de Benci was taught by Verrocchio (ver-OH-kee-oh). This artist 
sketched a man whose arms and legs are shown in two different positions inscribed within a circle and a 
square in  
The Vitruvian Man 
. Another of this man's works had a mustache scrawled on it by Marcel 
Duchamp and is also called  
La Gioconda 
. For 10 points, name this Italian painter of a famous enigmatic 
smile in the  
Mona Lisa 
. 
ANSWER:  
Leonardo 
 da Vinci [or Leonardo  
da Vinci 
] 
015-10-14-05114 
15. In World War I, this man served as chief of staff of the Rainbow Division. According to one of his aides, 
this man was \"too busy\" to receive orders not to chase the Bonus Army back across the Anacostia River. 
This man warned of the danger of a militarized China in a farewell address given after being fired as 
Commander of U.S forces during the Korean War. This general's most famous speech was given in Australia 
after being forced to evacuate from the Philippines. For 10 points, name this American general who vowed, 
\"I shall return.\" 
ANSWER: Douglas  
MacArthur 
003-10-14-05115 
16. This figure's father lost his speech until he gave this figure his name, and this figure \"jumped for joy\" 
within his mother after she saw her cousin. Like Jesus, one of this man's early followers was the disciple 
Andrew, and while preaching, this man dined on locusts and wild honey. This man was killed after Salome 
performed for her stepfather, and her mother, Herodias, requested this man's head on a platter. For 10 points, 
name this New Testament figure who preached from the desert about the coming of his cousin Jesus. 
ANSWER: Saint  
John 
 the  
Baptist 
 [or Saint  
John 
 the  
Baptizer 
 or  
Yahya 
 or  
Yokhanan 
] 
005-10-14-05116 
17. In one part of this work, Celia survives boiling and beheading because of her Christian faith. In another 
section of this work, Chanticleer tricks Reynard into letting him go. This work includes the story of Nicholas 
telling John the Carpenter about a flood to sleep with his wife Allison. In its first story, Arcite and Palomon 
fight over Emily. For 10 points name this work in which characters like the Manciple, Nun's Priest, Miller, 
and Knight tell stories while on a pilgrimage, a work of Geoffrey Chaucer. 
ANSWER:  
The  Canterbury Tales 
015-10-14-05117 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  3 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. This composer repeated the \"Promenade\" theme in a suite inspired by his friend Victor Hartmann. This 
composer wrote a tone poem about a Witches' Sabbath led by Chernobog on St. John's Eve, which was 
orchestrated by his friend Rimsky-Korsakov. Along with Rimsky-Korsakov, Cui, Balakirev, and Borodin, he 
was the fifth member of the Mighty Handful of Russian composers. For 10 points, name this Russian 
composer of Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures of an Exhibition. 
ANSWER: Modest  
Mussorgsky 
004-10-14-05118 
19. This character laments that his \"native hue of resolution is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought\" and 
that \"conscience does make cowards of us all.\" This character wishes that his \"too too solid flesh would 
melt, thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!\" after a ghost tells him to revenge his father's death. Later, this 
character murders Polonius while visiting his mother Gertrude. For 10 points, name this character who 
wonders \"to be, or not to be,\" a prince of Denmark who names a Shakespearean tragedy. 
ANSWER: Prince  
Hamlet 
004-10-14-05119 
20. Parietal cells in this organ produce intrinsic factor to help absorb Vitamin B12. In response to distension 
of this organ, gastrin is released, and hydrochloric acid is a key ingredient in this organ's acidic juices. 
Infection by  
Helicobacter pylori 
 (HEEL-ih-ko-BACK-tur py-LORE-eye) causes peptic ulcers in this organ, 
which produces chyme (KIME) that is sent into the small intestine. For 10 points, name this organ of the 
digestive system between the esophagus and small intestine. 
ANSWER:  
stomach 
032-10-14-05120 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  4 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 5 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. This thinker focused on the sacred-profane dichotomy and discussed positive and negative cults in a work 
that argued the social origin of religion. In addition to writing  
The Elementary Forms of Religious Life 
, he 
analyzed the importance of interdependence in society, arguing that organic solidarity arises through 
division of labor. He noted that there are altruistic and anomic varieties to a certain phenomenon that occurs 
most frequently among unmarried, childless Protestant. For 10 points, name the author of  
Suicide 
. 
ANSWER: Emile  
Durkheim 
034-10-14-05121 
2. Faa Di Bruno's Formula gives an explicit formula for one type of this operation. Operations of this type 
for a vector function form the entries of the Jacobian matrix, and operations of this type form the entries of 
the gradient. L'Hospital's Rule uses a quotient of these operations to calculate limits. For composite 
functions, this operation is applied using the chain rule. This operation finds the slope of a curve's tangent 
line, and is defined as the \"limit as h goes to zero of 'f of x plus h' minus 'f of x', all over h.\" For 10 points, 
name this basic operation of calculus, the inverse of the integral. 
ANSWER:  
derivative 
028-10-14-05122 
3. This operating system is based on Darwin, a flavor of BSD. This operating system includes the 
\"Terminal\" application, through which Unix commands may be entered into a command line. The visual 
interface of this operating system is called Aqua. Specific versions of this operating system include Tiger, 
Jaguar, and, most recently Snow Leopard. For 10 points, name this operating system found on Apple 
Computers. 
ANSWER: Mac  
OSX 
 [or Macintosh  
Operating System Ten 
; accept letter-by-letter pronunciations of 
\"OSX\"; accept pronunciations of \"O-S-Ten\"; prompt on  
Mac OS 
] 
021-10-14-05123 
4. This Supreme Court case overturned  
Betts v. Brady 
, which had established that a certain law only applied 
to capital cases. Abe Fortas represented the defendant in this case. The majority opinion by Hugo Black in 
this case agreed that the defendant's sixth amendment rights had been violated. Like  
Miranda v. Arizona 
, this 
case was heard by the Earl Warren court and helped to reform the criminal justice system. For 10 points, 
name this Supreme Court case that established a defendant's right to be provided with an attorney. 
ANSWER:  
Gideon  v. Wainwright 
 [or  
Wainwright v.  Gideon 
] 
028-10-14-05124 
5. This element is single-bonded to itself in hydrazine (\"HIGH\"-druh-zeen) and triple-bonded to carbon in 
cyanide. This element forms in the second of three steps of a cycle of stellar fusion reactions, and the oxide 
that this element forms when it takes a plus one charge is known as laughing gas. This element's diatomic 
form contains a triple bond. For 10 points, name this element whose diatomic form is the gas most prevalent 
in the earth's atmosphere. 
ANSWER:  
nitrogen 
 [or  ] 
N 
022-10-14-05125 
6. This nation established a system of \"basic democracy\" in 1962 based on the panchayat (pun-CHAI-yat) 
system of local government under King Mahendra. A Maoist insurgency led by a man known as Prachanda 
arose in this country in the 1990s. The king and queen of this nation were killed by Crown Prince Dipendra 
in 2001. For 10 points, name this Himalayan nation known for its Gurkha troops. 
ANSWER:  
Nepal 
030-10-14-05126 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  5 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. One of this author's poems notes that a \"boy too far from town to learn baseball\" could \"do worse than be 
a swinger\" of the title tree. Another of his poems takes place on \"the darkest evening of the year\" and ends 
with the narrator remembering he has \"miles to go before I sleep.\" One of this author's character's claims that 
\"Good fences make good neighbors.\" This author of \"Birches\" and \"Stopping by Woods on a Snowy 
Evening\" wrote that \"two roads diverged in a yellow wood.\" For 10 points, name this poet who wrote 
\"Mending Wall\" and \"The Road Not Taken.\" 
ANSWER: Robert Lee  
Frost 
015-10-14-05127 
8. In one of this composer's operas, the title character is inspired to pretend Donati is still alive when his 
daughter Lauretta sings  
O mio babbino caro 
. This composer of  
Gianni Schicchi 
 (jee-ahn-ee shee-chee) also 
wrote an unfinished work in which  
Nessun Dorma 
 is sung before Calaf answers three riddles. This composer 
wrote another opera in which Cio-Cio San (cho-cho san) kills herself over Lieutenant Pinkerton. For 10 
points, name this Italian composer of  
Turandot 
 and  
Madame Butterfly 
. 
ANSWER: Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria  
Puccini 
015-10-14-05128 
9. This man's teacher George Wishart (WIH-shart) was burned at the stake for heresy. This man's book  
Faithful Admoninition 
 was written to English Protestants and called for the overthrow of ungodly rulers. 
This man also wrote the tract  
First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monstruous Regiment of Women 
. This 
man's  
Book of Common Order 
 advocated Presbyterian form of church governance. For 10 points, name this 
leader of the Reformation in Scotland. 
ANSWER: John  
Knox 
030-10-14-05129 
10. The value of this quantity for the change in volume of a gas is equivalent to the area under the curve on a 
P-V diagram, so at constant pressure this quantity equals \"pressure times change in volume.\" The first law of 
thermodynamics sets change in internal energy equal to \"heat added plus [this quantity].\" Dividing this 
quantity by time yields power, and an important result of classical mechanics says that this quantity is equal 
to energy transferred. For 10 points, name this quantity measured in Joules and equal to force times distance. 
ANSWER:  
work 
028-10-14-05130 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  6 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
1. Name these biomes. 
[5] Antarctica can be put into this biome, characterized by its low rainfall, around less than ten centimeters 
per a year. 
ANSWER:  
desert 
s 
[10] Forests are separated from these biomes by the ecotone called the timberline. Colder than taigas, the 
lack of trees in them is caused by the low temperature. 
ANSWER:  
taiga 
[15] Its not a savannah, but this semi-arid climate is similar to a prairie. It is usually used to describe regions 
in Central Asia, where the \"Great\" one is. 
ANSWER:  
steppe 
[20] This aquatic biome is the zone consisting of the sediment at the bottom of the ocean floor, in which 
scavengers and detritus-feeders predominate. 
ANSWER:  
benthic 
 zone 
033-10-14-05101 
2. He helped write the Charter 77 and described his time as a political prisoner in his  
Letters to Olga 
. 
[5] Name this playwright and politician, the first president of the Czech Republic. 
ANSWER: Vaclav  
Havel 
[10] Havel's plays were banned in Czechoslovakia after this 1968 period of reform, instigated by Alexander 
Dubcek (DOOB-check), was suppressed by a Soviet invasion. 
ANSWER:  
Prague Spring 
 [or  
Prazske jaro 
] 
[15] Havel took power after this 1989 revolution against the Communist government of Czechoslovakia, 
named for its non-violent nature. 
ANSWER:  
Velvet 
 Revolution [or  
Sametová 
 revoluce] 
[20] Earlier anti-Soviet leaders in Czechoslovakia included this man, who was killed in a suspicious fall 
from a window in 1948. His father Thomas was the first president of the country. 
ANSWER: Jan  
Masaryk 
038-10-14-05102 
3. These objects all have spin 1/2 and charge of either 2/3 or -1/3 times the charge of an electron. 
[5] Name these smallest subatomic particles, whose name was coined by Murray Gell-Mann from a phrase 
in  
Finnegan's Wake 
. 
ANSWER:  
quark 
s 
[10] These particles are made of a quark and antiquark. They were first predicted by Hideki Yukawa and 
thought to mediate the strong force until the discovery of gluons. 
ANSWER:  
meson 
s 
[15] This quark is the most massive and has a lifetime of about ten to the negative twenty-third seconds; 
thus, evidence of its existence did not exist until 1995. 
ANSWER:  
top 
 quark 
[20] This form of charge possessed by quarks and gluons and is determined by the non-Abelian SU(3) 
group. This charge has nothing to do with the observable property that it is named for. 
ANSWER:  
color 
 charge 
003-10-14-05103 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  7 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Diana Moon Glampers kills the title character of this man's story \"Harrison Bergeron.\" 
[5] Name this American author, who wrote the novels  
Player Piano 
 and  
Breakfast of Champions 
. 
ANSWER: Kurt  
Vonnegut 
, Jr. 
[10] This Vonnegut novel follows an optometrist named Billy Pilgrim, who is abducted by the 
Tralfamadorians during the firebombing of Dresden. 
ANSWER:  
Slaughterhouse-Five : or The Children's Crusade, a Duty Dance with Death 
[15] Much of what Vonnegut novel, which is named after a children's game, takes place on the island of San 
Lorenzo, where a religion named Bokononism is practiced? In this novel, the discovery of ice-9 threatens to 
freeze over the world's oceans. 
ANSWER:  
Cat's Cradle 
[20] Give the symbolic name of the fictional town in New York where Billy Pilgrim works as an 
optometrist. Vonnegut slyly used this alternate name for ancient Troy in reference to the many upstate New 
York cities with classical monnikers. 
ANSWER:  
Ilium 
024-10-14-05104 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  8 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 5 
Four 10-Part Team Rounds 
PLACES 
THE LETTER W 
RUNNING IN CIRCLES 
HILLS 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  9 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
PLACES 
[10] A \"Place\" named for this American fur baron and namesake of an Oregon town was the site of a New 
York City nativist riot. 
ANSWER: John Jacob  
Astor 
 [or  
Astor 
 Place] 
[10] This nation's \"Weltpolitik\" led it to seek a \"place in the sun\" in its colonial policies, which included its 
colonies in Kamerun and Togoland. 
ANSWER: Federal Republic of  
Germany 
 [or Bundesrepublik  
Deutschland 
] 
[10] This Armenian-American author wrote the collection  
Places Where I've Done Time 
 as well as the short 
story \"The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze.\" 
ANSWER: William  
Saroyan 
[10] This author told of a visit to the \"Place of the Gods\" in his short story \"By the Water of Babylon\" and 
also wrote  
John Brown's Body 
 and \"The Devil and Daniel Webster.\" 
ANSWER: Stephen Vincent  
Benet 
[10] This French mathematician names a partial differential equation for capillary pressure with Young, as 
well as transform similar to the Fourier transform. 
ANSWER: Pierre-Simon, Marquis de  
Laplace 
[10] This type of chemical reaction, also known as a metathesis reaction, involves the exchange of bonds 
between two chemical species. 
ANSWER:  
double replacement 
 reaction [or  
double displacement 
 reaction; prompt on  
replacement 
; 
prompt on  
displacement 
] 
[10] This American composer wrote \"The Unanswered Question\" and  
Three Places in New England 
. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Ives 
[10] This American architect created the PPG Place in addition to co-designing the Seagram Building with 
Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. 
ANSWER: Philip Cortelyou  
Johnson 
[10] The \"Place of Fear,\" Xibalba, is the underworld in this mythology, which is recounted in the  
Popul Vuh 
and centers on the Hero Twins. 
ANSWER:  
Maya 
n mythology 
[10] This author of  
People and Places 
 also wrote  
Coming of Age in Samoa 
. 
ANSWER: Margaret  
Mead 
026-10-14-0510-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  10 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE LETTER W 
Note that the answer may not include the letter W. 
[10] This author wrote  
The Color Purple 
. 
ANSWER: Alice Malsenior  
Walker 
[10] William Walker briefly took over this country with capital at Managua. 
ANSWER:  
 Nicaragua 
[10] WIMPS are a candidate solution to this material that accounts for about 25% of the universe, yet is 
difficult to directly observe. 
ANSWER:  
dark matter 
[10] This american psychologist is associated with behaviorism and conducted the Little Albert experiment. 
ANSWER: John Broadus  
Watson 
[10] This German composer composed  
The Valkyrie 
 and  
Tannhäuser 
ANSWER: Richard  
Wagner 
[10] This author wrote  
The Picture of Dorian Gray 
 and  
Lady Windermere's Fan 
. 
ANSWER: Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills  
Wilde 
[10] The letter W symbolizes this indole amino acid. A common misconception holds that the levels of this 
in Turkey cause people to get sleepy. 
ANSWER:  
Tryptophan 
[10] This Scott at achieved victory at the battle of Stirling Bridge. 
ANSWER: William  
Wallace 
[10] This female figure from the Bible conjure up the spirit of Samuel at the request of Saul. 
ANSWER:  
Witch of Endor 
[10] This American artists painted  
Breezing Up 
 and  
The Gulf Stream 
. 
ANSWER: Winslow  
Homer 
001-10-14-0510-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  11 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
RUNNING IN CIRCLES 
[10] These diagrams, named for a nineteenth-century British logician, visualize where sets intersect with 
each other using overlapping circles. 
ANSWER:  
Venn 
 diagrams 
[10] This British author described a juvenile delinquent who refuses to win a race in the story \"The 
Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner.\" 
ANSWER: Alan  
Sillitoe 
[10] In this war, one side was worried about possible subversion from groups such as the Copperheads and 
the Knights of the Golden Circle. 
ANSWER: American  
Civil 
 War [or  
War Between the States 
, etc] 
[10] From July 6 to 14 each year, this capital of Navarre hosts the \"enciero\" festival, known in English as 
\"the running of the bulls.\" 
ANSWER:  
Pamplona 
[10] Europa, Himalia, Io, and Callisto are among the moons circling what planet? 
ANSWER:  
Jupiter 
[10] In April 2010, Charlie Crist announced that he would run as an independent for the Senate seat from 
what state, where George LeMieux was previously appointed to fill the seat of the resigning Mel Martinez? 
ANSWER:  
Florida 
[10] Pheidippides ran 150 miles from the battlefield to Athens to announce the Greek victory over Persia at 
what 490 BCE battle? 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Marathon 
[10] A structure built in three concentric circles, called a tower of silence, is used to expose the dead to the 
elements in what dualistic religion, which originated in ancient Iran? 
ANSWER:  
Zoroastrianism 
[10] Carker runs away with Edith, and is then run over by a train, in  
Dombey and Son, 
 a novel by what 
British author of  
Nicholas Nickleby 
 and  
The Pickwick Papers 
? 
ANSWER: Charles  
Dickens 
[10] This painter of the Arena Chapel, who was one of the first to break away from medieval forms and 
presage the Renaissance, once drew a perfect circle for Pope Benedict IX to demonstrate his skills. 
ANSWER:  
Giotto 
 di Bondone 
019-10-14-0510-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  12 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
HILLS 
[10] Name the Revolutionary War battle that coined the phrase \"Don't fire until you see the whites of their 
eyes,\" which was mainly fought on Breed's Hill. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Bunker Hill 
[10] Name the group which fought in a namesake war against the English at the Battle of Majuba Hill, as 
well as at later battles around the turn of the twentieth century in South Africa. 
ANSWER:  
Boer 
s 
[10] What author wrote about the Bottom, a primarily black hillside community, in her novel  
Sula 
 and about 
Pecola Breedlove in  
The Bluest Eye? 
ANSWER: Toni  
Morrison 
 [or Chloe Anthony  
Wofford 
] 
[10] Name the collection of poems that starts out with \"The Hill\" and describes a community of small town 
people as written by Edgar Lee Masters. 
ANSWER:  
Spoon River Anthology 
[10] Name the area whose inner region is called the Hills cloud, and which is considered the source of long 
period comets. 
ANSWER:  
Oort Cloud 
[10] What long hills were created by the flow of glaciers and the accumulation of glacial till? 
ANSWER:  
drumlin 
s 
[10] Name the musical in which \"the hills are alive with the\" title entity and which concerns the von Trapp 
family. 
ANSWER:  
The  Sound of Music 
[10] What mythological figure was condemned to forever roll a stone up a hill and then watch it roll back 
down? 
ANSWER:  
Sisyphus 
[10] Name the second largest city in Poland, whose Wawel Castle was built on its Wawel Hill. 
ANSWER:  
Krakow 
[10] Name the MTV show from which Lauren Conrad moved onto  
The Hills 
 and which focused on 
teenagers living in the title Orange County community. 
ANSWER:  
Laguna Beach : The Real Orange County 
023-10-14-0510-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  13 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 5 
12 20-Point Tossups 
1. The narrator of this novel dedicates his commencement address to the title character's father. That 
character later sleeps in the title character's bed to protect her from Wick Cutter. The title character works 
for the Harling family, and is later impregnated and abandoned by Larry Donovan. The protagonist ends up 
in a happy marriage with Anton Cuzak in this novel, which is set in Black Hawk, Nebraska. For 20 points, 
name this novel in which Jim Burden reunites with the title Bohemian girl, a work by Willa Cather whose 
title character has the surname Shimerda. 
ANSWER:  
My Ántonia 
034-10-14-05101 
2. In this battle, the crucial Bar-le-Duc (bahl-luh-DUC) road becaem known as the \"Sacred Way.\" Erich von 
Falkenhayn (EH-rik fohn FALK-un-hayn) masterminded one side's forces in this battle. The namesake 
fortification of this battle was established as a counterpart to the German stronghold at Metz. French troops 
at this battle were led by Philippe Petain. This battle took place along the Meuse river. For 20 points, name 
this World War I battle in which French troops, inspired by the cry, \"They shall not pass,\" repelled a German 
offensive in 1916. 
ANSWER:  
Verdun 
030-10-14-05102 
3. In one of this author's novels, the adopted son of Frederick Barbarossa describes searching for the 
legendary kingdom of Prester John to Niketas in Constantinople. In another of this author's novels, three 
bored editors use the computer Abulafia to devise a fake conspiracy about the Knights Templar, resulting in 
the murder of Jacopo Belbo. This author of  
Baudolino 
 also wrote a novel about the friar William of 
Baskerville, who attempts to solve a series of murders in a fourteenth-century monastery. For 20 points, 
name this author of  
Foucault’s Pendulum 
. 
ANSWER: Umberto  
Eco 
034-10-14-05103 
4. This state was the site of the Brooks-Baxter War. This was the home state of the general known as the 
\"Stonewall of the West,\" Patrick Cleburne (CLAY-burn). Samuel Curtis established Union control of this 
state near Elkhorn Tavern at the Battle of Pea Ridge. Winthrop Rockefeller was a governor of this state that 
attempted to desegregate this state's schools. For 20 points, what is this stat,e whose governor Orval Faubus 
opposed the integration of nine students at Central High in its capital? 
ANSWER:  
Arkansas 
015-10-14-05104 
5. In the study of graphics, an object with this name functions as the complement to a raster. The 
Cauch-Schwarz inequality concerns the multiplication of two of these objects. The triangle inequality 
concerns the addition of these objects. These objects sum is found by the parallelogram rule. These 
generalizations of numbers are the inputs of a cross product and a dot product, and many of them feature x,y, 
and z components. For 20 points, name these quantities with a magnitude and direction, distinguished from 
scalars. 
ANSWER:  
vector 
s 
033-10-14-05105 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  14 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One character in this epic spends thirteen years in exile after gambling away all his possessions and his 
wife in a game of dice with Shakuni. That character, Yudhisthira, becomes the emperor of the world after 
winning the Kurukshetra War. Attributed to Vyasa, this epic recounts the war between the Kauravas and the 
Pandavas, and contains the Bhagavad-Gita. For 20 points, name this Hindu epic poem. 
ANSWER: the  
Mahabharata 
004-10-14-05106 
7. This substance displays a Bennett pinch and will often obey the Carlqvist relation, and transverse ion 
waves named for Alfven occur in these materials. One special case of z-pinches in these materials is called a 
Birkeland current. These entities possess net positive layers called Debye sheaths, and an important 
temperature and density measure of these materials may be obtained by a Langmuir probe. For 20 points, 
name this phase exhibited by Tesla coils and lightning bolts, a partially ionized gas. 
ANSWER:  
plasma 
022-10-14-05107 
8. Grobert of Mirecourt invented a version of this instrument for one composer, who composed 43 Ghiribizzi 
for it. Ginastera's opus 47 is his only musical work for this instrument, which is accompanied by an orchestra 
in the monumental Concierto de Aranjuez. This instrument is closely related to the vihuela and hit a golden 
age between 1780 and 1850. Heavier than its baroque and flamenco counterparts, this instrument that is 
similar to the mandolin and lute is notably six-stringed. For 20 points, name this classical instrument popular 
in Spanish music. 
ANSWER: classical  
guitar 
020-10-14-05108 
9. The Nineteen Day Fast is a practice of this religion, and its calendar is divided into nineteen nineteen-day 
months. The Hands of the Cause of God are the successor's of Shoghi Effendi in this religion. Its supreme 
governing body is the Universal House of Justice and is located in Haifa, Israel. An offshoot of the teachings 
of the Bab, this religion was founded by Baha Ullah. For 20 points, name this religion that believes that the 
world's great religions are all manifestations of God. 
ANSWER:  
Bahai 
030-10-14-05109 
10. Two-time winners of this event include Harold Miner and Jason Richardson. Clyde Drexler entered this 
event five times without winning once. The 2008 winner of this event took off his jersey to reveal a 
Superman shirt and cape, but he was defeated in the 2009 finals by an alter ego known as \"KryptoNate.\" For 
20 points, name this NBA All-Star Weekend contest most recently won by Dwight Howard and Nate 
Robinson. 
ANSWER: NBA  
Slam Dunk 
 Contest [or Sprite  
Slam Dunk 
 Showdown] 
003-10-14-05110 
11. A process called ChIP (CHIP) employs these compounds to find DNA binding sites for a given protein. 
One region of these proteins undergoes isotype switching to produce the A, E, and G classes of these 
proteins. Their structure consists of a pair of heavy chains and a pair of light chains. They can be divided 
into polyclonal and monoclonal depending on how many objects they can bind to. For 20 points, name these 
gamma globulin proteins. 
ANSWER:  
antibodies 
 [or  
immunoglobulin 
s; or  ] 
Ig 
022-10-14-05111 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  15 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This author wrote \"there is neither East nor West, Border, nor Breed, nor Birth / When two strong men 
stand face to face, tho' they come from the ends of the earth!\" in a poem asserting \"East is East, and West is 
West, and never the twain shall meet.\" This author wrote a poem about a British soldier who tells a 
water-carrier \"you're a better man than I am.\" For 20 points, name this British author who wrote about India 
in \"Gunga Din.\" 
ANSWER: Rudyard  
Kipling 
004-10-14-05112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  16 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 5 
Tiebreakers 
1. One part of this work discusses \"natural man,\" whose care for his own life does not concern this work's 
title figure. The bulk of this work is laid out in ten \"considerations,\" one of which claims that pains and 
contrivances taken by wicked men will never be successful. This work attributes man's state on earth to the 
\"mere pleasure\" of God. A spider hanging by a thread over a fiery pit with God ready to cut the thread at any 
moment is one of this sermon's most famous images. For 10 points, name this sermon by Jonathan Edwards 
delivered first on July 8, 1741. 
ANSWER:  
Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God 
045-10-14-05131 
2. Idmon joined this group although he knew it would lead to his own death. This group encountered the seer 
Phineus, whose food was eaten by Harpies until two members of this group, Calais and Zetes, drove them 
off. Heracles abandoned this group to search for Hylas, and Orpheus kept this group from being enticed by 
the sirens. Their leader, Jason, married Medea on their voyage back from Colchis. For 10 points, name this 
group of Greek adventurers, who set off in their namesake ship to find the Golden Fleece. 
ANSWER:  
Argonauts 
003-10-14-05132 
3. This author's wrote a story about inhabitans of the title street of St. Petersburg. This author also wrote a 
short story about the insane Poprishchin. In addition to “Nevsky Prospect” and “Diary of a Madman,” this 
writer wrote about Petrovich and “the person of consequence” who is unwilling to help with Akaky 
Akakievich’s misfortune in his story “The Overcoat.” He also told told of Pavel Chichikov's attempts to buy 
the legal rights to dead serfs in another of his novels. For 10 points, name this Russian author of  
The 
Inspector General 
 and  
Dead Souls 
. 
ANSWER: Nikolay  
Gogol 
034-10-14-05133 
Colonia Tournament     Round 5     Page  17 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
