NASAT 2012 
Round 2 
Tossups 
1. The ability to re-target these systems is aided by the use of intermediate representation. A popular book 
on these programs is affectionately known as the  
Dragon Book 
. Backtracking during one phase of these 
programs can be mostly eliminated by eliminating left recursion and performing left factoring. The first 
step of these programs creates atoms of information called tokens. The result of their \"cross-\" type can be 
used on different architectures than the one used. These programs have five major phases: lexical analysis, 
parsing, semantic analysis, optimization and code generation. For 10 points, identify these programs that 
generate machine code from a source program and are contrasted with interpreters. 
ANSWER:  
compiler 
s 
066-12-59-02102 
2. This poet ended one sonnet with the image of “the swan’s great white neck, with its questions, its 
grace.” He addressed a shift in his style, noting, “I am an aged tree that, when I was growing, uttered a 
vague, sweet sound when the breeze caressed me,” in his poem “In Autumn.” The speaker claims, “When 
the giant yawns and stretches, the earth feels a tremor rippling through the enormous vertebrae of the 
Andes,” in his poem addressed to a man who can only be reached by “Biblical tones” or the poetry of Walt 
Whitman. This poet wrote “To Roosevelt” and the collection  
Azul. 
 For 10 points, name this Modernismo 
poet from Nicaragua. 
ANSWER: Ruben  
Dario 
 [or Felix Ruben Garcia  
Sarmiento 
] 
014-12-59-02103 
3. Luigi Pasinetti created a fifteen-equation mathematical model of this economist's views. He noted that 
taxation of land rents would be the only kind of tax actually paid by property owners and not passed on to 
tenants or consumers. This economist influenced the author of  
Production of Commodities by Means of 
Commodities, 
 Piero Sraffa, who was a member of the \"Neo-\" school of this economist. This economist 
gave an example involving wine and cloth production in England and Portugal to explain one famous 
theory. For 10 points, identify this economist, the author of  
Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, 
and formulator of the theory of comparative advantage and law of diminishing returns. 
ANSWER: David  
Ricardo 
126-12-59-02104 
4. This king was pushed off his horse in the Battle of Karansebes during a war against the Turks. He 
changed the language of education from Latin to German. He allowed non-Catholic Christians to perform 
religious rituals in the Patent of Toleration. He appointed Mozart as his chamber composer. This ruler tried 
to exchange part of the Netherlands for Bavaria, which was stopped by the Fuerstenbund organized by 
Frederick the Great. This ruler was succeeded by his brother, Leopold II, who undid or lessened certain acts 
of this ruler, such as his abolition of serfdom. For 10 points, name this Holy Roman Emperor and 
enlightened despot, the son of Maria Theresa. 
ANSWER:  
Joseph II 
 of Austria [prompt on  
Joseph 
] 
048-12-59-02105 
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  1 of 12 
5. In this work, the English horn adds a dissonant note to the final chord played by the trombones after the 
repetition of the word  
ewig, 
 which concludes a set of lines written by the composer. The refrain  
Dunkel ist 
das Leben, ist der Tod 
 is transposed from G minor to A-flat minor to A minor in the first movement. This 
work’s second movement is called “The Lonely One in Autumn,” and its sixth, final, and longest 
movement is “The Farewell.” This work sets to music several of Hans Bethge’s translations of poems by 
Li Bo. For 10 points, name this unnumbered symphony by Gustav Mahler. 
ANSWER:  
Das  Lied von der Erde 
 [or  
The  Song of the Earth 
] 
014-12-59-02106 
6. This woman is the mother of a witch, who was turned into a bird for enchanting Zeus to fall in love with 
Io. This mother of Iynx spent most of her life in glens and said \"Alas! Alas!\" as a man plunged a knife into 
his breast right next to her. This woman was punished for entertaining Hera with long stories while 
mountain nymphs cavorted with Zeus. She was torn to pieces by Pan's followers after having turned him 
down. Earlier in life, this nymph pleaded \"lie with me!\" after a conceited youth rebuffed her advances. For 
10 points, name this nymph who loved Narcissus and could only repeat what others had said. 
ANSWER:  
Echo 
020-12-59-02107 
7. One abrasive character in this novel hangs herself, jealous of the protagonist’s closeness with his fellow 
art student Lawson. In this novel, Hayward leaves to fight in the Boer War, leading the protagonist to lose 
his money and begin working in a department store. In this novel, the death of the protagonist’s Uncle 
William allows him to return to medical school. The protagonist of this novel tries many times to help the 
prostitute Mildred before giving up and marrying Sally Athelny. For 10 points, name this novel about the 
club-footed orphan Philip Carey, a work of W. Somerset Maugham. 
ANSWER:  
Of Human Bondage 
105-12-59-02108 
8. This man was convicted of the assassination of a rival politician who was shot while brushing his teeth. 
After he topped the bar exam in prison, he was acquitted by the Supreme Court of murdering that 
politician, Julio Nalundasan. This man's rule was opposed by the New People's Army, and he rose to power 
by defeating Diosdado Macapagal. His wife, nicknamed the Steel Butterfly, held several positions in his 
administration. That wife, Imelda, owned thousands of shoes. This ruler ordered the assassination of 
Benigno Aquino, whose widow Corazon and her supporters forced him into exile in 1986. For 10 points, 
name this dictator who served for 21 years as President of the Philippines. 
ANSWER: Ferdinand Edralin  
Marcos 
014-12-59-02109 
9. At every point P in the domain of a function f of x comma y, this function is normal to the level curve 
through P. This function is orthogonal to a surface at any point. The dot product of this function and a 
vector is known as a directional derivative. When applied to scalar functions, this operation yields a vector 
field. This operator gives the direction of greatest change. In two dimensions, this operator is defined as the 
partial of f with respect to x of x-hat plus the partial of f with respect to y of y-hat. For 10 points, identify 
this operator symbolized del. 
ANSWER:  
grad 
ient [prompt on  
del 
] 
066-12-59-02110 
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  2 of 12 
10. This artist received a job in Rome on the recommendation of Giulio Clovio, but had to leave after 
criticizing Michelangelo's  
Last Judgment 
. His only mythological painting shows the Trojan Horse in the 
background and includes two gods who watch serpents attack Laocoon and his sons. He may have inspired 
Picasso's  
Les Demoiselles d'Avignon 
 with a painting in which angels give robes to seven naked souls while 
St. John experiences a vision. In another of his paintings, St. Stephen and St. Augustine are carrying the 
armored corpse of the title nobleman. For 10 points, name this painter of  
The Opening of the Fifth Seal 
 and  
The Burial of Count Orgaz 
, a Mannerist from Crete who came to live in Toledo. 
ANSWER:  
El Greco 
 [or Domenikos  
Theotokopoulos 
] 
064-12-59-02111 
11. The law of this system states that n times p is equal to n-sub-i squared times e to the q times V-sub-A 
over k T. A hyperabrupt form of this system is used in varactors. This system undergoes two types of 
capacitance: diffusion and its namesake type. A plot of the current density of this system looks like a pair 
of scissors. It contains a single space-charge region. The first solar cells were based on this system. 
Increasing the doping on one side of this system pushes the depletion region further into the other side. This 
system can be in equilibrium or forward or reverse bias. For 10 points, identify this system upon which 
simple diodes are based. 
ANSWER: p-n  
junction 
066-12-59-02112 
12. This story begins by describing processions of troops with such names as “Citizens of the Tomb” and 
“Brethren in Death.” In one scene, a nun explains how she would not hesitate to kill her parents if she had 
received a divine order to do so. One character in this story resembling Henry IV is the Comte de Breville. 
In this story’s final scene, Cornudet irritates everyone by loudly whistling the Marseillaise. It ends with the 
title character crying as no one offers her food, even though she had earlier shared her picnic basket. This 
story climaxes with Elisabeth Rousset sleeping with a Prussian officer, allowing the coach to leave. For 10 
points, name this Guy de Maupassant story about an obese prostitute. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ball of Fat 
\" [or \" 
Boule de Suif 
\"] 
052-12-59-02113 
13. During this event, Violet Sharp killed herself to avoid another round of questioning. John Condon tried 
to help mediate this event and put an ad in the paper reading \"Money is Ready. Jafsie.\" One person 
implicated in it possessed gold certificates supposedly left in a shoebox by Isidor Finch; that man was also 
accused of constructing a ladder to be placed under a bedroom window. This event was investigated by H. 
Norman Schwarzkopf. The body of the victim of this event was discovered in Hopewell, New Jersey, and, 
several years later, Bruno Richard Hauptman was executed for his supposed role in it. For 10 points, name 
this 1932 crime that led to the Federal Kidnapping Act and involved the abduction and murder of the son of 
a famous aviator. 
ANSWER:  
Lindbergh 
 kidnapping [or any synonym for kidnapping; or  
Lindbergh 
 murder; or  
Lindbergh 
case] 
052-12-59-02114 
14. This city’s Hann Park contains a national zoo, and its tourist attractions include the bizarrely pink Lake 
Retba. A huge bronze monument outside this city depicts a black man holding a woman in his right arm 
and looking towards a pointing baby he holds up in his left. The historical “House of Slaves” lies off the 
coast of this city’s mainland on the isle of Gorée. This capital city is home to the African Renaissance 
Monument and lies on the Cap-Vert peninsula, which juts into the Atlantic. For 10 points, name this 
westernmost city of mainland Africa, the capital city of Senegal. 
ANSWER:  
Dakar 
104-12-59-02115 
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  3 of 12 
15. This sculpture was given an oval-shaped base despite Renaissance artists' usual avoidance of that 
figure. Scholars speculate that this sculpture originally included a kneeling, defeated barbarian. It was 
moved into a trapezoidal plaza near the Palazzo dei Conservatori and the Museo Capitolino as the 
centerpiece of Michelangelo's reorganization of the Capitoline Hill. This sculpture inspired Verrochio's 
depiction of Bartolommeo Colleoni, as well as Donatello's  
Gattamelata 
. This sculpture depicts a man in 
bronze raising his right arm and riding without stirrups. For 10 points, name this equestrian statue of a wise 
Roman emperor. 
ANSWER: the Equestrian Statue of  
Marcus Aurelius 
 [or any equivalents that mention Marcus Aurelius 
but do not give incorrect information] 
080-12-59-02116 
16. In Babylonian myth, King Etana freed one of these creatures so that it would guide him to the plant of 
birth. Another of these animals stole the cap of Tarquinius Priscus, but returned it, foreshadowing his later 
rule. Loki accidentally got his staff stuck in the body of a particularly greedy one of these creatures, which 
turned out to be a giant in disguise and forced him to steal the apples of Idunn. Vethrfolnir sits between the 
eyes of one of these creatures, the mortal enemy of the serpent Nidhogg. The Aztecs decided on the 
location of Tenochtitlan after seeing one of these animals on a cactus. For 10 points, name this non-vulture 
bird, one of which eats Prometheus' liver. 
ANSWER:  
eagle 
s [prompt on  
bird 
s; do not accept \"hawks,\" \"falcons,\" or any other kind of bird] 
080-12-59-02117 
17. This modern-day country was once home to a majority of the Dal Riata kingdom. King Calgacus gave a 
rousing speech before losing at the Battle of Mons Graupius in this country, where Saint Columba founded 
a monastery at Iona. This region signed the Treaty of Falaise with its southern neighbor under the 
leadership of William the Lion. The Antonine Wall crosses this country, which was known in Roman times 
as Caledonia. Men appointed to rule this country include John Balliol. For 10 points, name this place from 
which the Stone of Scone (\"SCOON\") was stolen, whose independent monarchs included Robert the Bruce. 
ANSWER:  
Scotland 
 [prompt on  
United Kingdom 
 or  
Great Britain 
; do not accept or prompt on 
\"England\"] 
124-12-59-02118 
18. Prep school students submit poems to a contest for a private audience with this author at the beginning 
of Tobias Wolff's  
Old School. 
 This poet described how an \"interrupted cry came over houses from another 
street, but not to call me back or say goodbye\" in a poem in which the speaker says, \"I have outwalked the 
furthest city light.\" In another poem, the speaker claims that \"one could do worse than be a swinger of\" the 
title trees. This poet of \"Acquainted with the Night\" and \"Birches\" contrasted two ways that the world 
might end in \"Fire and Ice.\" For 10 points, name this American poet who concluded, \"And that has made 
all the difference,\" in \"The Road Not Taken.\" 
ANSWER: Robert Lee  
Frost 
080-12-59-02119 
19. The aberrant activation of this pathway causes paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. Cleavage of a 
thioester bond causes basal activation of this pathway, a phenomenon termed tickover. People with 
deficiencies in this pathway are susceptible to repeated meningococcus infections. This pathway can be 
activated by mannan-binding lectins or antigen-antibody complexes. In this pathway, the membrane attack 
complex is assembled by C5 through C9 after the formation of C3 and C5 convertase, and this pathway is 
responsible for destroying bacteria independent of cell-mediated immunity. For 10 points, name this 
cascade, a part of the innate immune system named for the fact that it adds to the defense provided by the 
adaptive immune system. 
ANSWER:  
complement 
 system [or  
complement 
 cascade; or  
complement 
 pathway] 
048-12-59-02120 
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  4 of 12 
20. This work praises bees as an example of an animal that has learned no more than what they were taught 
by nature. After attacking the pursuit of happiness by Christians as a type of madness, this book states that 
there will be no epilogue, as the author hates a man who remembers what he hears. This work is prefaced 
with a letter defending the right to criticize other men, written to a friend who himself was later executed. 
The title character of this work claims to be the offspring of Plutus, the god of wealth, and a beautiful 
nymph called Youth. This work was written while the author was at the residence of his close friend Sir 
Thomas More. For 10 points, name this 1509 text by Erasmus. 
ANSWER:  
In Praise of Folly 
 [or  
Morias Enkomion 
] 
064-12-59-02121 
21. This man once claimed to have dodged an assassin's bullet by diving over a fence, eliciting accusations 
that he was lying in what is called the Observatory Affair. His loss of a legislative seat in 1958 began a 
period referred to as the \"desert crossing.\" In another office, he appointed his country's first female prime 
minister, Edith Cresson. This leader abolished the death penalty with his first prime minister, Pierre 
Mauroy. After a legislative election during his first term, he was forced into cohabitation with RPR leader 
Jacques Chirac. For 10 points, name this Socialist and longest-serving president of France. 
ANSWER: Francois Maurice-Marie  
Mitterrand 
014-12-59-02122 
22. The speaker of this poem compares the title creature to a \"high-born maiden in a palace tower\" and a 
\"glow-worm golden in a dell of dew.\" This work's stanzas consist of four iambic trimeter lines followed by 
a long iambic hexameter line. The speaker of this poem wishes for \"half the gladness\" of the title creature 
so that \"harmonious madness\" could flow from his lips. This poem describes how the title figure pours 
\"profuse strains of unpremeditated art,\" and it opens, \"Hail to thee, blithe spirit!\" For 10 points, name this 
poem about a bird by Percy Bysshe Shelley. 
ANSWER: \" 
To a Skylark 
\" 
080-12-59-02123 
23. One species from this phylum begins life in the bipinnaria stage, which is usually followed by a 
brachiolaria stage. Members of this phylum possess an opening to filter water called the madreporite, which 
is a feature of this phylum's water vascular system. The act of harvesting one class of organisms in this 
phylum is called \"trepanging.\" This phylum is the second-largest grouping of deuterostomes after Chordata. 
For 10 points, identify this phylum of marine animals possessing radial symmetry, examples of which 
include sea urchins and starfish. 
ANSWER:  
Echinoderm 
ata [or  
echinoderm 
s] 
126-12-59-02124 
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2012 
Round 2 
Bonuses 
1. Albert Einstein called his introduction of this quantity his “greatest mistake.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this constant that Albert Einstein introduced to create a static universe. This quantity is equal to 
three times the curvature of the vacuum. 
ANSWER:  
cosmological 
 constant 
[10] Einstein introduced the cosmological constant into this theory of his that claims that gravity warps 
spacetime. The Pound-Rebka experiment verified this theory’s prediction of gravitational redshift. 
ANSWER:  
general relativity 
 [accept  ; prompt on  
gr relativity 
] 
[10] When caused by the cosmological constant, this quantity is equal to the negative vacuum density or 
the opposite of the mass density of the cosmological constant times c squared. This quantity’s “force” is 
perpendicular to isobars, which represent constant values of this quantity, and causes winds. 
ANSWER:  
pressure 
149-12-59-02201  
2. Answer these questions about classical Chinese poetry, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Tang Dynasty poet of \"Drinking Alone by Moonlight\" was the rival of Du Fu. 
ANSWER:   Bo [or   Po; or   Bai] 
Li Li Li 
[10] This anthology, one of the Five Classics, comprises many works written during the Shang and Zhou 
Dynasties. 
ANSWER: the  
Shijing 
 [or the  
Book of Odes 
; or the  
Book of Songs 
; or the  
Classic of Poetry 
] 
[10] This author wrote the poem \"Though the Tortoise Lives Long\" during the Battle of White Wolf 
Mountain. He may be better known as the ruler of Wei in  
Romance of the Three Kingdoms. 
ANSWER:  
Cao 
 Cao [or Cao  
Cao 
] 
080-12-59-02202  
3. During this festival, the president, \"armed with the Flame of Truth,\" approached a basin that was meant 
to symbolize \"that monster, Atheism.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Jacques Louis David-planned French religious festival that saw the construction of a 
mountain on the Champs du Mar. It celebrated the cult started by a revolutionary leader. 
ANSWER: Festival of the  
Supreme Being 
[10] This promulgator of the Cult of the Supreme Being was the head of the Committee of Public Safety. 
He was executed following the Thermidorian Reaction. 
ANSWER: Maximilien Francois-Marie-Isidore de  
Robespierre 
[10] Robespierre was a member of this anti-slave trade group that was led by Jacques-Pierre Brissot. This 
group was opposed by the planter-composed Massiac club. 
ANSWER: Society of the  
Friends of the Blacks 
 [or Societe des  
Amis des Noirs 
] 
149-12-59-02203  
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  6 of 12 
4. These texts include the Vohu-Khshathra and the Ahuna Vairya, which mandates the choice of the lord, 
or  
ahu, 
 the judgment, or  
ratush, 
 and the rule, or  
xshathra. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this set of verse hymns which frequently address Ahura Mazda. 
ANSWER:  
Gathas 
[10] The Gathas comprise part of the Avesta, the primary sacred text of this religion founded by a 
namesake Persian prophet. 
ANSWER:  
Zoroastrian 
ism 
[10] The Gathas are a subset of this larger body of Zoroastrian liturgical texts. The twelfth one, the  
Fravarane 
 creed, begins, “I curse the Daevas. I declare myself a Mazda-worshipper.” 
ANSWER:  
Yasna 
014-12-59-02204  
5. Examples of this type of composition by J.S. Bach include  
Ascension Easter 
,  , and  
Christmas 
. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name these compositions for an orchestra and large choir, exemplified by Handel’s  
Messiah 
. 
ANSWER:  
oratorio 
s 
[10] Adapted from a Cardinal Newman poem, this Edward Elgar oratorio tells the story of a man’s soul as 
it travels to Purgatory. It includes the “Praise of the Holiest” chorus. 
ANSWER:  
The  Dream of Gerontius 
[10] This British composer adapted Psalm 137 and the Book of Daniel into the oratorio  
Belshazzar’s Feast 
. 
He also composed  
Façade 
, a setting of Edith Sitwell’s poetry. 
ANSWER: William  
Walton 
079-12-59-02205  
6. Xenophon wrote an embellished biography of this ruler. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this first of the Achaemenids who made his capital at Pasargadae after founding the Persian 
Empire. 
ANSWER:  
Cyrus 
 the Great [or  
Cyrus 
 II] 
[10] This son and successor of Cyrus launched a successful invasion of Egypt and a less successful attack 
on Kush. Herodotus claims he lost a massive army to a sandstorm. 
ANSWER:  
Cambyses II 
 [prompt on  
Cambyses 
] 
[10] Cyrus started off by defeating Astyages and conquering this empire, which had its capital at Ecbatana. 
ANSWER:  
Medes 
 [or  
Median 
 Empire] 
015-12-59-02206  
7. This character marries Narcissa, the niece of his employer to whom he reads Tasso’s poetry, and he 
meets his long-lost father Don Rodrigo while on a voyage with Tom Bowling. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this title character of a picaresque novel who frequently supports himself by serving as a ship’s 
surgeon. 
ANSWER: Roderick  
Random 
 [or  
Roderick 
 Random] 
[10]  
The Adventures of Roderick Random 
 was written by this Scottish novelist of  
The Expedition of 
Humphry Clinker 
 and  
The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle. 
ANSWER: Tobias  
Smollett 
[10] Smollett translated into English this Spanish novel about a delusional man known for tilting at 
windmills. 
ANSWER:  
Don Quixote 
014-12-59-02207  
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  7 of 12 
8. Answer the following about foreign relations between Japan and the United States, for 10 points each. 
[10] This commodore opened Japan to foreign relations. He first arrived in July 1853 and signed the 
Convention of Kanagawa the following year. His older brother, Oliver, won the battle of Lake Erie in the 
War of 1812. 
ANSWER: Matthew Calbraith  
Perry 
[10] In 1907, Japan and the United States agreed that San Francisco would end segregation of Japanese 
students in schools, and Japan would not allow further emigration to the U.S. That decision was known by 
this name. 
ANSWER:  
Gentlemen's Agreement 
 of 1907 
[10] Japanese-American internment was declared constitutional in the 1944  
Korematsu 
 case. This justice 
wrote a dissent arguing that \"military decisions are not susceptible of intelligent judicial appraisal.\" He 
went on to become the chief American prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials. 
ANSWER: Robert Houghwout  
Jackson 
052-12-59-02208  
9. The initial substance in this process is dissolved in molten cryolite in order to decrease the melting point 
of the Al O . 10 points each: 
2 3 
[10] Name this process that uses electrolysis to obtain aluminum from alumina. 
ANSWER:  
Hall-Heroult 
 process 
[10] The Hall-Heroult process is often preceded by the Bayer process, which obtains the alumina from this 
ore. It is the main source of aluminum used in industry. 
ANSWER:  
bauxite 
[10] The Castner-Kellner process is another electrolytic method that can be used for aluminum extraction. 
It produces an alkali hydroxide from the alkaline metal compounded with this second lightest halogen. 
ANSWER:  
chlorine 
 [or  
Cl 
] 
127-12-59-02209  
10. For 10 points each, answer the following about UNESCO Natural World Heritage Sites that are found 
in Australia. 
[10] This collection of over 400 species of coral is also a major nesting ground for green and loggerhead 
turtles. It is the world's largest coral reef. 
ANSWER:  
Great Barrier 
 Reef 
[10] This largest sand island in the world is home to \"acid frogs\" and one of the purest dingo populations in 
Australia. It was renamed from \"Great Sandy Island\" after a shipwreck survivor who ended up on it. 
ANSWER:  
Fraser 
 Island 
[10] Both the Great Barrier Reef and Fraser Island are found off the coast of this northeastern Australian 
state whose tropical rainforests are also a Natural World Heritage Site. 
ANSWER:  
Queensland 
003-12-59-02210  
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  8 of 12 
11. The area enclosed by one of these curves is equal to a material-dependent power of the flux density 
times the Steinmetz coefficient, and represents the energy loss in one cycle. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of \"loop\" used to characterize the response of elastic and some magnetic materials to 
changes in the magnetic field strength. 
ANSWER:  
hysteresis 
 loop 
[10] Classically, metals which exhibit this behavior undergo hysteresis. This property exists below the 
Curie point, and occurs when domains align parallel to each other, creating a permanent magnet. 
ANSWER:  
ferromagnetism 
[10] The positive y-axis intercept of the hysteresis loop represents the amount of magnetization still present 
in the presence of zero magnetic field. 
ANSWER:  
remanence 
003-12-59-02211  
12. Name the following Czech authors, for 10 points each. 
[10] Ludvik writes “optimism is the opium of the people” on a postcard in this author’s novel  
The Joke. 
 He 
also wrote about Tomas, Tereza, and Sabina in  
The Unbearable Lightness of Being. 
ANSWER: Milan  
Kundera 
[10] This man wrote a satire centering on a soldier in World War I in a novel illustrated by George Grosz,  
The Good Soldier Schweik. 
ANSWER: Jaroslav  
Hasek 
[10] This Nobel laureate, the first Czech to win the prize, wrote  
Mozart in Prague: Thirteen Rondels 
 as 
well as  
On the Waves of T.S.F. 
ANSWER: Jaroslav  
Seifert 
127-12-59-02212  
13. This term refers to achieved status, whose social cohesion is more susceptible to class conflict. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this German term which is often translated as “society.” It refers to an association where 
individuals work out of self interest, as opposed to its contrasting term, which denotes individuals’ 
loyalties to the larger community. 
ANSWER:  
Gesellschaft en 
 [do not accept “gemeinschaft”] 
[10] The concept of  
gesellschaften 
 was devised by Ferdinand Tonnies, who studied human association, 
much like this man, who theorized the role of religion in society in  
The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of 
Capitalism 
. 
ANSWER: Maximilian Karl Emil  
Weber 
[10] An American conceptualist of the community is Robert Putnam, who wrote this 2000 book in which 
he analyzed the decline of social capital in America, including the deterioration of social organizations like 
the ones dedicated to the title activity. 
ANSWER:  
Bowling Alone : The Collapse and Revival of American Community 
 [or  
Bowling Alone : 
America’s Declining Social Capital 
] 
052-12-59-02213  
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  9 of 12 
14. The current holder of this position played professional basketball in Australia’s NBA. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this Cabinet position which during the Bush administration’s second term was held by Margaret 
Spellings, who succeeded Rod Paige. 
ANSWER: Secretary of  
Education 
[10] The current Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, was formerly CEO of this city’s public schools. 
The current mayor of this city is former White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
[10] This NYU professor is a critic of No Child Left Behind and the charter school system. She is the 
author of such books as  
The Language Police 
 and  
The Death and Life of the Great American School 
System. 
ANSWER: Diane Silvers  
Ravitch 
052-12-59-02214  
15. This woman gave a fidelity charm to her husband, causing him to ejaculate serpents and scorpions. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this woman, the mother of Ariadne. Under a curse from Poseidon, she mated with a certain 
white animal he sent to her kingdom. 
ANSWER:  
Pasiphae 
[10] After mating with the white bull, Pasiphae gave birth to this monster, otherwise known as Asterion. 
This man-bull was placed inside the labyrinth. 
ANSWER:  
Minotaur 
[10] The Athenians had to send youths to be eaten by the Minotaur as punishment for killing this son of 
Minos and Pasiphae, who apparently had won too many prizes at a feast. 
ANSWER:  
Androgeos 
052-12-59-02215  
16. In this painting, a man sitting on a window sill appears about to defecate on a globe with its cross 
pointing downwards. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting also depicting such tropes as a man knocking his head against a wall and a big fish 
eating a little fish. 
ANSWER:  
Netherlandish Proverbs 
[10]  
Netherlandish Proverbs 
 was painted by this Flemish artist of  
Landscape with the Fall of Icarus 
 and  
The Triumph of Death. 
ANSWER: Pieter  
Bruegel 
 the Elder 
[10] This Bruegel painting shows the influence of Hieronymus Bosch, as the retreating title characters are 
in the middle of transforming into butterflies, fish, gnomes, and other bizarre creatures. 
ANSWER:  
The  Fall of the Rebel Angels 
014-12-59-02216  
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  10 of 12 
17. The Danish king Christian VIII died in this year, which led to mass protests for a constitutional 
monarchy. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this year known as the \"Year of Revolutions\" in Europe because of numerous popular protests. 
During this year, Louis-Philippe abdicated the throne in France and a briefly autonomous Hungarian 
government was set up under Lajos Kossuth. 
ANSWER:  
1848 
[10] This king of Prussia in 1848 initially opposed the revolution, but then supported it and German 
unification for a time for his own security. In 1849, this ruler refused the crown offered to him by the 
Frankfurt Assembly. 
ANSWER:  
Frederick William IV 
 of Prussia [or  
Friedrich Wilhelm IV 
; prompt on  
Frederick William 
; 
prompt on  
Friedrich Wilhelm 
] 
[10] In 1848, the year after the Sonderbund War, this modern-day country devised a new constitution that 
created a federal state. 
ANSWER:  
Switzerland 
 [or  
Swiss 
 Confederation; or  
Schweiz 
erische Eidgenossenschaft; or Confederation  
Suisse 
; or Confederazione  
Svizerra 
; or Confederaziun  
Svizra 
] 
052-12-59-02217  
18. Answer the following about novels with strong homosexual themes, for 10 points each. 
[10] This author wrote about the teenager Joel Knox, who comes to live at a mansion owned by the 
homosexual cross-dresser Randolph. Besides  
Other Voices, Other Rooms, 
 he wrote the novella  
Breakfast at 
Tiffany’s 
 and the crime novel  
In Cold Blood. 
ANSWER: Truman  
Capote 
 [or Truman Streckfus  
Persons 
] 
[10] This female author wrote about the homosexual Captain Weldon Penderton, who becomes attracted to 
Private Williams, in her work  
Reflections in a Golden Eye. 
 She also wrote about a deaf man named John 
Singer in another novel. 
ANSWER: Carson  
McCullers 
 [or Lula Carson  
Smith 
] 
[10] In this controversial 1936 Djuna Barnes novel, Robin Vote marries Baron Felix Volkbein, but then 
ends up having relationships with Nora Flood and Jenny Petherbridge. It is considered one of the first 
explicit depictions of homosexuality in American prose. 
ANSWER:  
Nightwood 
052-12-59-02218  
19. One person killed in this incident was Hector Pieterson. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this event that began on June 16, 1976. It began with students protesting the requirement of 
schools to use the Afrikaans language and led to about 176 deaths. 
ANSWER:  
Soweto 
 Uprising [or equivalents such as  
Soweto 
 Rebellion] 
[10] The Soweto Uprising took place in this country, where many students associated the Afrikaans 
language with the official policies of apartheid. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
South Africa 
[10] This South African student leader founded the Black Consciousness Movement. He was killed in 1977 
after being arrested and sent to Pretoria prison, and his friend, journalist Donald Woods, used the death as a 
rallying cry against apartheid. 
ANSWER: Steve  
Biko 
 [or Bantu Stephen  
Biko 
] 
052-12-59-02219  
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  11 of 12 
20. Prokaryotic ones have two nucleotide sequences at the minus 10 and minus 35 sites, and eurokaryotic 
ones contain a TATA box. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these parts of DNA where gene transcription begins. 
ANSWER:  
promoter 
s 
[10] This promoter element located in the -5 to -10 region helps orient prokaryotic polymerases. This 
element is usually some variant of TATAAT and is the Eukaryotic analog of the TATA box. 
ANSWER:  
Pribnow 
 box 
[10] This technique is used to assay for the level of several different genes at once. It uses a glass slide 
printed with a series of oligos that hybridize to a sample. 
ANSWER: DNA  
microarray 
 [or DNA  
chip 
] 
079-12-59-02220  
21. This author wrote the “No Name Series,” which included the novel  
Mercy Philbrick’s Choice. 
 For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this author who wrote about a part Scottish, part American Indian orphan in  
Ramona 
 and also 
documented government abuse of American Indians in the nonfiction  
A Century of Dishonor. 
ANSWER: Helen Hunt  
Jackson 
 [or Helen  
Fiske 
] 
[10]  
Ramona 
 is set in this American state. Jackson was an activist there for the so-called “Mission 
Indians,” who were forcibly converted and taken to missions, such as Mission San Juan Capistrano and 
Mission Santa Barbara. 
ANSWER:  
California 
[10] In this novel also set in California, Danny inherits two houses from his grandfather. Danny’s buddies 
are Pablo, Pilon, and Jesus Maria, and Danny ultimately dies when he falls into a gulch. 
ANSWER:  
Tortilla Flat 
052-12-59-02221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 2     Page  12 of 12 
