National History Bowl 11 
Round 8 
First Quarter 
1. One speech in this trial included the remark \"there is never a duel with the truth\" made by Dudley Field 
Malone. This trial saw questions like \"do you think about things you do think about?\" asked during the 
famous examination of prosecutor William Jennings Bryan by the defense attorney Clarence Darrow. For 
10 points, name this trial of a high school teacher who taught about evolution. 
ANSWER:  
Scopes 
 Monkey trial or State of  
Tennessee v. Scopes 
088-11-31-08101 
2. In one novel by this man, members of “the Party” instigate a strike of fruit workers. He collaborated on  
The Sea of Cortez 
 with Ed Ricketts, the basis for his itinerant preacher character Jim Casy. Casy appears in 
a novel in which Al, Tom, Rose of Sharon, Ma, and Pa travel to California from Oklahoma. For 10 points, 
name this author who fictionalized the Great Depression in  
The Grapes of Wrath 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Steinbeck 
015-11-31-08102 
3. This man assaulted William Stanbery with a cane on Pennsylvania Avenue. As a Senator, he and John 
Bell were the only southerners to vote against the Kansas-Nebraska Act. A close ally of Andrew Jackson, 
he served as the governor of Texas until he was removed for his refusal to support the Confederacy. For 10 
points, name this politician, who also lead the victorious forces at the Battle of San Jacinto. 
ANSWER: Samuel  
Houston 
088-11-31-08103 
4. This organization’s command structure included procurators, who answered to the komturs and 
grosskomturs. This group was soundly defeated by Alexander Nevsky on Lake Peipus at the Battle of the 
Ice. This organization suffered a major blow when its leader Ulrich von Jungingen was killed by a 
Polish-Lithuanian force at the Battle of Grunwald. For 10 points, name this crusading order of knights 
named for its German origins. 
ANSWER:  
Teutonic 
 Knights [or  
Teutonic 
 Order; or  
Order of Brothers of the German House of Saint 
Mary in Jerusalem 
] 
015-11-31-08104 
5. This author of \"On Denoting\" described the reasoning behind his atheism in the lecture \"Why I Am Not 
a Christian.\" That a set containing all sets not members of themselves cannot be a member of itself is 
known as this man's paradox. For 10 points, name this English philosopher who collaborated with Alfred 
North Whitehead on the three volume  
Principia Mathematica 
. 
ANSWER: Bertrand Arthur William  
Russell 
023-11-31-08105 
6. This religion believed that education was necessary to keep children from becoming \"barbarous.\" John 
Davenport was one noted preacher in this religion, whose beliefs were expounded in the poetry of Edward 
Taylor. Anne Hutchinson and Roger Williams left this religion to found the tolerant colony of Rhode 
Island. For 10 points, name this religion of early New England, some leaders of which conducted the Salem 
Witch Trials. 
ANSWER:  
Puritan 
s 
026-11-31-08106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. A key part of this man's defense trial centered around attempts to find a Woodstock typewriter this man 
used. The testimony of Whittaker Chambers, who was also known as George Crosley, were a key part in 
the prosecution of this man. He allegedly hid information in a hollowed pumpkin. For 10 points, name this 
State Department employee who was accused of being a Soviet spy. 
ANSWER: Alger  
Hiss 
088-11-31-08107 
8. One empire that ruled in this city moved its residence to the Dolmabahce Palace 
(DOLE-mah-BAH-chay), which replaced this city's Topkapi Palace. Another structure in this city was built 
by Anthemius of Tralles and Isidorus of Miletus, and that building was converted into a mosque after this 
city fell. For 10 points, name this city located on the Bosporus Strait and home to the Hagia Sophia, which 
fell to the Ottoman Empire in 1453. 
ANSWER:  
Constantinople 
 [or  
Istanbul 
] 
023-11-31-08108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 8 
Second Quarter 
1.  
This group was established after Marcus Oliphant of Britain’s MAUD Committee convinced 
Lyman J. Brings to give it a grant. Vannevar (van-NEE-var) Bush recommended Colonel Leslie 
Groves as the leader of this group headquartered at Oak Ridge, Tennessee. It also conducted 
research at Hanford, Washington with the help of men such as (*) 
 Glenn Seaborg and Enrico Fermi. It 
culminated in the successful Trinity Test near the Los Alamos laboratory in New Mexico. For 10 points, 
name this group including J. Robert Oppenheimer that developed the atomic bomb. 
ANSWER:  
Manhattan Project 
 [or  
Manhattan Engineer District 
] 
BONUS: Which German-born scientist spied for the Soviet Union during the Manhattan Project and passed 
along American nuclear secrets that led to the development of Soviet nuclear weapons? 
ANSWER: Klaus  
Fuchs 
079-11-31-08101 
2.  
This meeting opened with a speech dismissing “the prophets of gloom” called  Gaudet Mater 
Ecclesia . Another document referenced the “griefs and anxieties of the men of this age” titled  
Gaudium et Spes  or “Joy and Hope”. A third document produced at this meeting titled  Sacrosanctum 
Concilium  sought to promote greater participation in liturgy. This meeting, interrupted by the death 
of Pope John (*) 
 XXII and the subsequent appointment of Pope Paul VI , issued  
Nostra Aetate 
 which 
hoped to improve interfaith dialogue and also broadly dealt with the issue of birth control. For 10 points, 
name this meeting of the Catholic Church from 1962 to 1965. 
ANSWER:  
Second Vatican 
 Council [or  
Vatican II 
] 
BONUS: Within twenty years, when was the First Vatican Council opened? 
ANSWER: 1869 [accept anywhere between  
1849-1889 
] 
064-11-31-08102 
3.  
The first budgets for this program were created by Kermit Gordon. The name of this program was 
coined by speechwriter Richard N. Goodwin, and it was notably laid out in a speech at the University 
of Michigan. This program led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act and a pair of (*) 
 Civil Rights 
Acts, as well as the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. It also included the passage of the Economic 
Opportunity Act and the creation of Upward Bound, which were both part of its War on Poverty. For 10 
points, name this set of social reforms enacted by Lyndon Johnson. 
ANSWER:  
Great Society 
BONUS: Some Great Society programs have their origin in what two-word program for national 
development, first referred to in JFK’s acceptance speech for the Democratic Nomination for president in 
1960? 
ANSWER:  
New Frontier 
024-11-31-08103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
In his early career, this man repeatedly lost to the forces of Muhammad Shaybani. This man took 
advantage of the scheming of Alam Khan and Dualat Khan to defeat Ibrahim Lodi in battle. Shortly 
after that battle, this man defeated the Rajput army of Rana Sanga at the Battle of Khanua. This 
descendant of (*) 
 Tamurlane made several unsuccessful attempts to capture Samarkand and was forced to 
capture Kabul instead. This man was succeeded by his son Humayan and defeated the Delhi sultanate at the 
first Battle of Panipat. For 10 points, name this founder of the Mughal Empire. 
ANSWER: Zahir ud-din Muhammad  
Babur 
BONUS: Which later Mughal Emperor ruled for 30 years in the 17th century and is most famous for 
ordering the construction of the Taj Mahal? 
ANSWER:  
Shah Jahan 
064-11-31-08104 
5.  
This author wrote a novel whose title character falls in love with Mary, who is in love with a lost 
sailor named James Marvyn. This author of  The Minister’s Wooing  also wrote a memoir entitled  
Palmetto Leaves . She wrote about an escaped slave living in the Great Dismal Swamp in the novel  
Dred . Abraham Lincoln supposedly called (*) 
 her “the little woman who wrote the book that started this 
great war,” referring to her novel featuring an evil slave owner named Simon Legree. For 10 points, name 
this author of  
Uncle Tom’s Cabin 
. 
ANSWER: Harriet Beecher  
Stowe 
BONUS: Named after Stowe’s abolitionist father, what object did the term “Beechers Bibles” refer to? 
ANSWER:  
rifles 
 [accept firearms, guns, etc.] 
024-11-31-08105 
6.  
This group mistakenly entrusted a trainload of gold to its Czech allies, who promptly used it to 
barter for safe passage back to Czechoslovakia and betrayed the location of one of this group’s 
leaders. Another leader of this group, VO Kappel, died during the so-called \"Icy March.\" The 
\"Polar Bear Legion\" was an American group providing assistance to this group. Peter Wrangel 
commanded one remnant of this group during an evacuation from the Crimea, though Japanese 
assistance allowed another remnant to briefly hold out in Mongolia and Siberia. This group's 
advance on Yekaterinburg prompted the execution of the (*) 
 Romanovs. For 10 points, name this group 
of loosely allied fighters that battled the Bolsheviks during the Russian Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
White 
 Army 
BONUS: The Czechs who fought with the Whites for a time controlled a major section of which Asian 
railroad? 
ANSWER:  
Trans-Siberian Railroad 
003-11-31-08106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
Philipp Deidsheimer developed square-set timbering for use at this site. Adolph Sutro built a 
tunnel here for drainage and ventilation purposes which was opposed by a group led by William 
Ralston, the Bank Crowd. The largest discovery at this site was unearthed by James Fair and John 
Mackay, and is known as the (*) 
 \"Big Bonanza\". A railroad was built to Truckee to exploit this discovery, 
which contained gold in addition to its most famous ore. For 10 points, name this rich vein found near 
Virginia City, Nevada, the largest discovery of silver in American history. 
ANSWER:  
Comstock Lode 
BONUS: Which site of silver mines in Bolivia were so rich that they lead to great inflation in Europe when 
they began to be mined in the 16th century? 
ANSWER:  
Potosi 
082-11-31-08107 
8.  
This event was organized by six groups of aristocrats called the “Sock Circles.” One of its 
attractions was the “Flight of the Angel,” in which a Turkish acrobat did a tightrope walk from St. 
Mark’s Tower to the palace. Begun after the 1162 defeat of Ulrich II by (*) 
 Doge Vital Michiel, it 
occurs in St. Mark’s Square and sees participants wear the  
bauta 
, a white mask, as well as feathers, black 
capes, and tri-corner hats. For 10 points, name this festival in which residents of a floating Italian city 
celebrate Fat Tuesday. 
ANSWER:  
Carnival of Venice 
 [accept obvious equivalents that indicate  
Carnival 
 is taking place in  
Venice 
; accept  
Carnevale di Venezia 
] 
BONUS: Which Venetian, who no doubt enjoyed a Carnival or two, wrote the autobiography entitled 
“Story of My Life” in his later years in Bohemia? 
ANSWER: Giacomo  
Casanova 
079-11-31-08108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 8 
Third Quarter 
TEDDY ROOSEVELT 
Answer these questions relating to Teddy Roosevelt. 
A. Which assassinated president did he succeed? 
ANSWER: William  
McKinley 
, Jr. 
B. He charged up what location with the Rough Riders? 
ANSWER:  
San Juan Hill 
, Cuba 
C. He invited what founder of the Tuskegee Institute to dine at the White House? 
ANSWER: Booker Taliaferro  
Washington 
D. His relative Kermit headed Operation Ajax in what Asian country? 
ANSWER:  
Iran 
 [or Islamic Republic of  
Iran 
] 
E. The Interstate Commerce Act was part of what domestic program of his? 
ANSWER: The  
Square Deal 
F. Which “muckraker” produced How the Other Half Lives? 
ANSWER: Jacob August  
Riis 
G. Roosevelt ended a 1902 strike by this union, once led by John L. Lewis. 
ANSWER:  
United Mine Workers 
 of America [or  
UMW 
] 
094-11-31-0810-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
AMERICAN TREATIES 
What treaty did the United States… 
A. Sign with the UK to end the Revolutionary War? 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Paris 
B. Sign with the UK to end the War of 1812? 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Ghent 
C. Sign in 1929 to agree to humanitarian treatment of prisoners of war? 
ANSWER: Third  
Geneva Convention 
D. Sign with Mexico to end the Mexican-American War? 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Guadalupe Hidalgo 
E. Sign in 1928 with a number of other countries to renounce war? 
ANSWER:  
Kellogg-Briand 
 Pact 
F. Sign in 1854 to open Japan to American trade? 
ANSWER:  
Kanagawa 
 Treaty [or Treaty of  
Peace and Amity 
] 
G. Sign in 1842 to resolve border disputes with British Canada? 
ANSWER:  
Webster-Ashburton 
 Treaty 
H. Sign with Mikhail Gorbachev in 1991 to decommission the majority of nuclear weapons? 
ANSWER:  
START I 
 [prompt on “START”] 
015-11-31-0810-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
UNITED STATES MASSACRES 
In which massacre did… 
A. A unit included William Calley kill hundreds of Vietnamese Citizens? 
ANSWER:  
My Lai 
 massacre 
B. Crispus Attucks become the first casualty? 
ANSWER:  
Boston 
 massacre 
C. Ohio National Guard members kill students protesting American involvement in Cambodia? 
ANSWER:  
Kent State 
 massacre 
D. A group of Mormon militiamen annihilate the Baker-Fancher wagon train? 
ANSWER:  
Mountain Meadows 
 massacre 
E. U.S. soldiers kill a large number of unarmed Sioux in 1890? 
ANSWER:  
Wounded Knee 
 massacre 
F. A Colorado militia destroy a Cheyenne village in 1864? 
ANSWER:  
Sand Creek 
 massacre 
G. Gangs led by Al Capone and Bugs Moran clash in 1929 Chicago? 
ANSWER:  
St. Valentine’s Day 
 massacre 
H. Mexican forces kill a group of surrendered Texans under James Fannin? 
ANSWER:  
Goliad 
 massacre 
015-11-31-0810-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 8 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
This event was the subject of the Supreme Court case  Luther  v.  Borden,  and agitators in this event 
argued that their rights under the Constitution's (+)  Guarantee Clause had been violated. This 
event's namesake's supporters elected him to a certain position after opposing the Freemen's 
Constitution, and President Tyler ultimately declined to intervene in this event. This rebellion began 
after both its namesake and Samuel Ward (*) 
 King were elected as governor of a certain state. For 10 
points, name this 1840s American uprising whose namesake sought to enact universal male suffrage in 
Rhode Island. 
ANSWER:  
Dorr's 
 Rebellion [or  
Dorr's 
 Uprising] 
081-11-31-08101 
2.  
A cat and parrot run away as this character gets sick from smoking a cigar in a work in which this 
character \"wrestles with the tobacco habit.\" He was in \"McFadden's Row of Flats\" and he made 
appearances in another work his creator entitled  Buster Brown . This character first appeared in  At 
the Circus in  (+)   Hogan's Alley . Usually his attire would be covered with his dialog. His actual name 
was Mickey Dugan. This creation of Richard Felton Outcault appeared in strips of both the  New 
York Journal American  and the  New York (*)  World 
. For 10 points, name this bald child that appeared in 
19th century comic strips whose name gave rise to the style of sensational journalism seen during the 
Spanish American War. 
ANSWER:  
Yellow Kid 
 [or  
Mickey Dugan 
 before mentioned] 
001-11-31-08102 
3.  
One martyr of this sect was Dirk Willems, who was burned at the stake after turning back to 
rescue his fallen pursuer. One leader of this sect was (+)  Michael Sattler, and it attempted to unify 
itself doctrinally at the Martyr’s synod. The failed prophecies of Melchior Hoffman and the 
leadership of John of Leiden caused an uprising of this sect in Munster. Descendents of this group 
include the Hutterites, (*) 
 Amish, and Mennonites. For 10 points, name this radical sect of reformers who 
infuriated Catholics and Protestants alike by insisting that a water-based Christian ritual be performed on 
adults. 
ANSWER:  
anabaptist 
s 
015-11-31-08103 
4.  
This man both wounded and was wounded by Humphrey Marshall, who opposed a resolution by 
this man that dictated the type of fabric that could be worn by legislators in a certain body. That 
legislation was a predecessor to a better-known (+)  policy by this man whose components included a 
high tariff and the continued existence of the Bank of the United States. In addition to the American 
System, this man was responsible for legislation that was passed in response to concerns over the 
passage of the (*) 
 Wilmot Proviso, and ended the balance of free and slave states. For 10 points, name this 
legislator whose negotiation of the Compromise of 1850 led him to be dubbed \"The Great Compromiser.\" 
ANSWER: Henry  
Clay 
081-11-31-08104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
One leader of this religious movement was responsible for the creation of the newspaper  The Final 
Call . This movement's founder was (+)  Wallace D. Fard. One part of the mythology of this movement 
claims that a Mother Plane was built in Japan in 1929 and can reach speeds of 9,000 miles per hour. 
Three members of this religion were responsible for an (*) 
 assassination in the Audubon Ballroom of a 
former member of this movement. For 10 points, name this American religious movement whose leaders 
have included Elijah Muhammad and Louis Farrakhan, and once included Malcolm X. 
ANSWER:  
Nation of Islam 
023-11-31-08105 
6.  
He approximated the value of the square root of 3 as between 265/153 and 1351/780 in his work  
Measurement of a Circle . This man also attempted to calculate the number of grains of sand in the 
universe in  The Sand Reckoner . He invented a device made from (+)  polished bronze shields and 
mirrors that legendarily destroyed ships during a siege on his home city. This creator of a namesake 
\"heat ray\" invented a device consisting of a large blade rotated by hand inside a (*) 
 cylinder to 
remove bilgewater from the Syracusia. For 10 points, name this inventor of a namesake screw, also famous 
for saying \"Give me a place to stand on and I will move the Earth\" and for shouting \"Eureka!\" after 
discovering the principle of buoyancy. 
ANSWER:  
Archimedes 
095-11-31-08106 
7.  
This painter depicted a left-facing dog, a center-facing lion, and a right-facing dog at the bottom of 
a painting showing three heads of different ages, his  Allegory of Prudence . He showed a spear-bearing 
emperor exiting a forest at left in his  Equestrian Portrait of  (+)   Charles V . A cherub rides on the back 
of a fish in the bottom left of a painting by this man that shows a woman clutching the horn of 
wide-eyed cow. A cherub reaches into a well between a clothed and a naked woman in this painter's 
(*) 
Sacred and Profane Love 
. For 10 points, name this Venetian painter who executed a  
Rape of Europa 
and the  
Venus of Urbino 
. 
ANSWER:  
Titian 
 [or  
Tiziano 
 Vecelli; prompt on  
Vecelli 
o] 
026-11-31-08107 
8.  
A non-fiction work by this author declares Heaven free of debt but Hell full of it in \"Payback\", 
while short story collections published by this author include  Bluebeard’s Egg  and  Moral Disorder . 
This author described the title character's jealousy of Helen of Troy in a retelling of the  Odyssey  from 
the perspective of (+)  Penelope. One of the title characters of another of this author's books 
graduated from the Watson-Crick Institute, liked to play a game called Extinctathon, and ultimately 
slits the throat of the other title character after unleashing a plague on mankind. That work was (*) 
Oryx and Crake 
 and was followed by a recently published sequel,  
The Year of the Flood 
. In her best known 
work, Offred describes life in the theocratic Republic of Gilead. For 10 points, name this Canadian author 
of  
The Handmaid's Tale 
. 
ANSWER: Margaret Eleanor  
Atwood 
094-11-31-08108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 8     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
