NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 TOSSUPS  
1. A dirge in this play concludes that \"golden lads and girls all must, like chimney-sweepers,  
come to dust.\" A prince in this play has a woman awoken with an aubade about a lark that sings  
\"at heaven's gate.\" Another character in this play wakes up with a prophetic tablet on his chest  
after seeing his father Sicilius in a dream. In this play, Cornelius foils a plot by substituting a  
sleeping potion for real poison. The Italian villain of this play steals a bracelet and identifies a  
mole on the protagonist's breast to prove her infidelity. Thus, in this play, Iachimo wins a bet  
with Postumus by pretending to have slept with Imogen. For 10 points, name this late  
Shakespeare play titled for a king of ancient Britain.  
ANSWER:  Cymbeline   
2. This ruler was the last to employ architect Domenico da Cortona, who worked in the Loire  
valley to build the Chateau of Chambord to this ruler's specifications. This European ruler's navy  
besieged the city of Nice at the same time as the pasha Hayreddin Barbarossa. An anti-Catholic  
notice was covertly placed outside this man's bedchamber in the Affair of the Placards.This man  
met with an English monarch at a lavish meeting organized by Cardinal Wolsey, the Field of the  
Cloth of Gold. This man was captured at Pavia after his alliance with Suleiman the Magnificent  
brought the Ottoman Empire into western European politics. For 10 points, name this Valois  
king of France, a rival of Charles V of Spain who patronized Leonardo da Vinci.  
ANSWER:  Francis I  Valois [or  Francois I ; prompt on  Francis ]  
3. A generalization of this quantity that applies to liquid media is also named for Nikolay Umov.  
When computing the divergence of the Maxwell stress tensor, this quantity appears divided by  
the square of the speed of light and represents the momentum density. The original derivation of  
this quantity relies on taking the time derivative of the energy density and then using a theorem  
named for the namesake of this quantity, which causes the negative divergence of this quantity to  
appear. This quantity is found by taking the cross product of the E-field and the H-field. For 10  
points, name this vector quantity symbolized with a boldface S, which represents the flux of  
electromagnetic energy, and \"points\" in the direction of propagation.  
ANSWER:  Poynting  vector [prompt on \"intensity\"]  
4. Every August since 1947, this European city has held the oldest multi-week \"Festival Fringe\"  
for theater productions, founded in competition with its International Festival. Its tourist  
attractions include a vertically-oriented Camera Obscura, which projects images of it down onto  
a white table; that attraction and its Grassmarket area are along its Royal Mile in Old Town. The  
port area of Leith is in this city, where the historic Holyrood Palace is visible from a parliament  
building. The Waverley railway station lets passengers off in this city in the Midlothian region,  
the largest on the southern coast of the Firth of Forth. For 10 points, name this major Scottish  
city east of Glasgow.  
ANSWER:  Edinburgh , Scotland 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 TOSSUPS  
5. This man's son studied the Salem witch trials in his book  Wayward Puritans.  This thinker,  
who developed some of his ideas while observing schools on the Pine Ridge reservation, wrote a  
study of a man who once shouted \"I am not!\" during a choir practice in a monastery. He  
contrasted such themes as \"industry\" and \"inferiority\" and \"identity\" and \"role confusion\" in a  
model he developed. This psychologist analyzed the lives of important religious men in  Gandhi's  
Truth  and  Young Man Luther.  His most well-known theory was outlined in his book  Childhood  
and Society.  For 10 points, name this psychologist who advanced an eight stage theory of  
psychosocial development.  
ANSWER: Erik  Erikson   
6. Jean Metzinger created a divisionist rendition of a painting of this woman, whose artist  
exasperatedly replied \"Black, obviously,\" upon being asked about her dress. This woman holds a  
fan in her gloved arm and sits on a blue chair in that controversial painting, which was bought by  
Leo and Gertrude Stein. This woman often alternated modeling duty with her husband's daughter  
Marguerite. This woman's black hair is done in a bun in a painting in which her face is bifurcated  
by the title feature. A portrait of this woman was singled out for attack at the 1905 Salon  
d'Automne by critics who likened it to a wild beast. For 10 points, name this subject of  Woman  
with a Hat  and  Green Stripe,  which were painted by her husband, the leader of the Fauvists.  
ANSWER:  melie  A Matisse  [or  Mrs. Matisse ; or Henri  Matisse's wife ; or Amelie Noellie  
Parayre ; prompt on  Matisse ]  
7. A condition in which this organ undergoes severe fibrosis commonly occurs in chemotherapy  
patients taking Busulfan or Bleomycin. One disease that affects this organ causes Ranke and  
Ghon complexes to appear in it, and also causes caseating necrosis of this organ via granuloma  
formation. V/Q scans are commonly used to evaluate the function of this organ. A cancer of this  
organ’s neuroendocrine cells sometimes causes the syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion  
and increased ACTH levels, and was formerly called oat cell carcinoma. Diseases of this organ  
are commonly sorted by their FEV1 to FVC ratio into either restrictive or obstructive, and  
hyaline membranes appear in this organ in infants who do not produce enough surfactant. For 10  
points, name this organ which contains a series of tiny sacs called alveoli.  
ANSWER:  lungs   
8. A poem by this author describes two characters who talk “as kinsmen met at night” until the  
moss reaches their lips. This author wrote of the notched pencil of a dead friend in one poem,  
and described an “onset” when the “King be witnessed - in the Room” in another. This poet  
wrote, \"I signed away what portion of me be assignable\" and described how “then the Windows  
failed” in another poem. One of this author’s poems mentions “a House that seemed a swelling  
in the Ground” and a “School, where Children strove at recess.” In that poem of hers, the speaker  
remembers the day “I first surmised the Horses’ heads were toward Eternity.” For 10 points,  
name this author of “I heard a Fly buzz - when I died” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”  
ANSWER: Emily  Dickinson 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 TOSSUPS  
9. This character predicts that \"a time will come when luxury dissolves into the atmosphere like a  
perfume.\" This character ignores two warnings to \"watch your step,\" joyful that \"at last the  
weather's warming up.\" This character notes that \"I don't daydream and don't look back\" after  
being given a model elephant by glass factory workers. While watching a performance, she  
rushes onstage to help a peasant girl seemingly being whipped to death. While at the Summer  
Palace, this character sings the aria \"This is prophetic.\" This non-coloratura soprano attends a  
performance of the opera  The Red Detachment of Women  alongside Chiang Ch’ing, the wife of  
Mao Zedong. For 10 points, name this John Adams character, a First Lady who visits China.  
ANSWER:  Pat  Nixon [or  Thelma ; or  Mrs. Nixon ; prompt on  Nixon ]  
10.  A monarch of this name, on the cusp of being unseated, amassed troops in Pomerania in  
response to a threatened Danish invasion of the free city of Hamburg. That monarch of this name  
liked making cannon-firing noises while playing with his toy soldiers, which he did instead of  
having sex with his wife. Another king of this name wiggled himself out of an arranged marriage  
by forcing Eudoxia to become a nun, and later ordered his army to quell the rebellion of  
Kondraty Bulavin. That more famous king of this name studied shipbuilding on his Grand  
Embassy to Europe and organized the Table of Ranks to undermine the authority of the boyars.  
The third king of this name was the manchild husband of Catherine the Great. For 10 points,  
identify this regnal name of a \"great\" modernizer of Russia.  
ANSWER:  Peter  [or  Pyotr ]  
11. One member of this group avenges the death of his father and returns wearing his father's  
armor, hence his nickname meaning \"badly-fitting coat.\" Another member of this group makes a  
lion into his pet by saving it from a snake. This group was first mentioned in the  Roman de Brut  
penned by Wace. Prior to becoming a member of this group, a lowly kitchen boy received the  
nickname \"Good Hands,\" or \"Beaumains.\" A vacant spot among this group, Siege Perilous, is  
filled by a youthful bastard child who begins the Grail Quest. For 10 points, name this group, all  
of whose members supposedly had equal status, that hung out at King Arthur's Court.  
ANSWER: Knights of the  Round Table  [prompt on answers like King  Arthur's Court  or King  
Arthur's knight s before the very end]  
12. In a speech, this politician claimed that “self-reliance and teamwork are not opposing virtues;  
we must have both.” This man quoted Ronald Reagan by saying “there they go again” in a  
speech outlining Republican waste and budget slashing. He was mocked for giving an overly  
long nomination speech for Michael Dukakis at the 1988 Democratic National Convention. He  
proclaimed “the era of big government is over” in a State of the Union speech, and he cheerfully  
proclaimed “we’re going to keep President Obama on the job” during a well received 2012  
Democratic National Convention speech. For 10 points, name this man who defeated George  
H.W. Bush to win the 1992 presidential election.  
ANSWER: William Jefferson “Bill”  Clinton  [or William Jefferson  Blythe  III] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 TOSSUPS  
13. The British Channel 4 documentary  Hunted  is set in this country. Kris van der Veen and  
three other Dutch tourists were arrested in this country in July 2013 for violating Article 6.13.1.  
The Principle 6 campaign specifically targeted a law passed by this country. This country  
threatened to pull out of Eurovision after Conchita Wurst's recent victory. The mostly-defunct  
political party Yabloko is a protest voice in this country. This nation's president requested that  
visitors, \"leave the children in peace, please\" in January 2014. Weeks later, a mayor in this  
country explained that there were no homosexual inhabitants of his city. For 10 points, name this  
country which passed an \"anti-gay\" law in 2013 in the lead-up to the Winter Olympics it hosted  
in Sochi.  
ANSWER:  Russia n Federation  
14. This composer parodied \"polite salon music\" with an interlude for solo viola and piano in  
one of his symphonies, which calls for a \"distant choir\" of strings in its fourth movement.  
Optional parts for the flute and viola appear in a piano sonata by this composer, which was  
published immediately after the explanatory \"Essays Before a Sonata.\" In another piece by him,  
increasingly dissonant woodwinds represent \"Fighting Answerers\" struggling in vain against a  
solo trumpet. Writers such as the Alcotts, Thoreau, and Emerson title the movements of this  
composer's  Concord Sonata.  Another of his pieces pays homage to Robert Gould Shaw and his  
black regiment. For 10 points, name this composer of  The Unanswered Question  and  Three  
Places in New England.   
ANSWER: Charles  Ives   
15. This law predicts the effectiveness of separating components using air stripping. The  
temperature dependence of a parameter in this equation follows a van't Hoff-like expression  
using the heat of solvation. The Gibbs-Duhem equation is used when the Lewis-Randall rule and  
this law are both invalid. It is used when the critical temperature is below the system  
temperature. This law's namesake constant is the ratio between fugacity and mole fraction as  
mole fraction goes to zero, and has units of pressure. This law applies best for ideal-dilute  
solutions, such as oxygen dissolving in water, and sets partial pressure proportional to the  
concentration in the liquid. For 10 points, name this equation, the low-concentration analog of  
Raoult's Law.  
ANSWER:  Henry 's Law  
16. This author wrote an essay in which he describes a toilet as “a place of spiritual repose,”  
which compared Western civilization to his own homeland. In one of this author’s novels, the  
main character is financially ruined when he falls in love with a waitress who reminds him of the  
actress Mary Pickford. That novel of his about Joji is entitled  Naomi.  In another of this author’s  
novels, a character “goes to Suma” whenever she engages in an affair. That novel of his features  
the marital problems of Misako and Kaname. He wrote another novel including four siblings in  
which Yukiko repeatedly fails to get married. For 10 points, name this Japanese author of  Some  
Prefer Nettles  and  The Makioka Sisters.   
ANSWER: Jun’ichiro  Tanizaki 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 TOSSUPS  
17. This is the most commonly used system in which there are no cyclic numbers. Vim is  
distributed with xxd so it can work with files in this system. The smallest unit of this system is  
equivalent to a \"nibble\". The printf format \"percent a\" prints a floating-point number in this  
system. This system is identifiable by the prefix zero x. Eight groups of four numbers in this  
system are used to represent an IPv6 address. A \"dump\" in this system is commonly assessed  
when debugging. Because each digit in this system maps to four bits, it is more readable than,  
and very easy to convert to and from, binary. This system uses the digits 0 through 9 and A  
through F. For 10 points, name this base 16 numeral system.  
ANSWER:  hex adecimal [or base  16  until it is read]  
18. This author wrote a story in which Alexandra feverishly declares love for her doctor, Trifon,  
rather than die without loving anyone. This author of \"Asya\" lectured on the tension between  
solipsism and foolish altruism represented by \"Hamlet and Don Quixote.\" In a novel by this  
writer, the protagonist shoots Pavel in the leg in a duel arising from a kiss he gave to Fenechka.  
That medical student created by this author dies from a scalpel cut he neglects to disinfect. A  
short story collection by this author containing \"Khor and Khalinych\" and \"Bezhin Lea\"  
contributed to the movement to abolish serfdom. For 10 points, name this Russian author of  A  
Sportsman's Sketches  and  Fathers and Sons.   
ANSWER: Ivan  Turgenev   
19. The \"dede\" is the spiritual leader of a religion mostly based in this country. Jews were  
disproportionately targeted by the 1942 \"Wealth Tax\" in this country. The \"National Vision\"  
religious organization has a great deal of pull among the Islamic diaspora from this country. This  
modern-day country is the primary home of the Alevi sect, and it was also the country to which  
Baha'ullah was exiled. Bartholomew I heads a major religion in this country. Hospitals and other  
workplaces in this country forbid women from wearing headscarves. For 10 points, name this  
officially secular, majority Muslim country, whose capital contains the former Hagia Sophia.  
ANSWER: Republic of  Turkey  [or  Turkiye  Cumhuriyeti]  
20. After this battle, John Ashley Kilvert, a future mayor, was found half frozen but alive in a  
ditch. In reporting for the  Times , William Russell wrote seeing a colorful “streak tipped with a  
line of steel,” inspiring a nickname for one phase of it. At one point in this battle, Louis Nolan  
vaguely waved his arm while saying “There is your enemy!” to Lord Lucan. During it, Sir Colin  
Campbell’s 93rd Highland Regiment repelled an enemy attack in the “Thin Red Line” defense.  
The best known phase of this battle occurred when Lord Raglan sent troops into a location  
defended by Pavel Liprandi called the Valley of Death, resulting in numerous British casualties  
at the hands of Russian guns. For 10 points, name this battle in the Crimean War that featured the  
ill-fated “Charge of the Light Brigade.”  
ANSWER: Battle of  Balaclava 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 TOSSUPS  
21. One of these events in Honea Path, South Carolina resulted in eight deaths due to the actions  
of Governor Blackwood's \"constables without compensation.\" Fielding Burke's novel  Call Home  
to the Heart  and Grace Lumpkin's  To Make My Bread  were based on one of these in 1929 that  
took place in Gastonia, North Carolina and resulted in the death of that city's chief of police.  
David Dubinsky led some events of this type as the head of the ILGWU. In 1912, a large event  
of this type was named for Lawrence, Massachusetts. One of these events ended following the  
Triangle Shirtwaist disaster. For 10 points, name these types of work stoppages conducted by  
employees engaged in the production of cloths and clothing.  
ANSWER:  textile strike s [accept reasonable equivalents such as  garment strike s and  textile  
work stoppage s; prompt on  strike s]  
22. This property can be measured by adding potassium permanganate in the Baeyer test, or by  
adding bromine in methylene chloride for the bromine test. This non-molecular weight property  
increases in order for the following compounds: myristoleic, linoleic, and arachidonic acid. This  
property can be quantified by adding half the number of nitrogens, subtracting half the number of  
halogens and hydrogens, adding the number of carbons and 1. This property can be reduced by  
hydrogenation, and it corresponds to the number of double bonds there are. For 10 points, name  
this property possessed by trans, and other much healthier fats.  
ANSWER: degree of  unsaturation  [or index of  hydrogen deficiency rings  ;  plus  double /triple  
bond s; or word forms; do not accept or prompt on \"saturation\"]  
23. One character in this novel mutters about the “power of a thousand scorpions” before dying.  
This novel includes a lengthy description of monstrous figures on a church door shortly before a  
hairless man who speaks in a bizarre mix of languages is introduced. The main character of this  
novel enjoys chewing a narcotic herb and has a pair of “lenses” stolen from him. This novel’s  
narrator has sex with a prostitute on the floor of a kitchen and is upset when that girl is taken  
away by an inquisitor. In this novel, several characters are found with blackened fingers after  
touching a poisonous book by Aristotle. For 10 points, name this novel featuring Adso of Melk  
and William of Baskerville, a murder mystery set in an abbey by Umberto Eco.  
ANSWER:  The  Name of the Rose  [or  Il  nome della rosa ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 BONUSES  
1. Answer the following about matrices, for 10 points each.  
[10] A square matrix with ones on the diagonal and zeros elsewhere is this special matrix, which  
is required to yield the same matrix by which it is multiplied.  
ANSWER:  identity  matrix [or  ]  I 
[10] Linearly independent systems of equations can be solved using matrices if the matrix is put  
in this form, where every leading coefficient is a one and is the only nonzero entry in its column.  
ANSWER:  reduced row echelon  form [or  RREF ]  
[10] This matrix contains the second partial derivatives of a function and can be used to check if  
a function has a saddle point at a certain point.  
ANSWER:  Hessian  matrix  
2. These places feature weekly \"Theocratic Ministry School\" meetings. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these religious institutions which feature no religious symbols. Their name was  
coined by Joseph Rutherford, the president of the Watch Tower Society.  
ANSWER:  Kingdom Hall  [prompt on Jehovah's Witnesses's  church ]  
[10] Kingdom Halls are where members of this Christian denomination meet. Members of this  
faith reject the Trinity and military service and are best known for going door to door to  
distribute  The Watchtower.   
ANSWER:  Jehovah's Witness es  
[10] This term refers to the act of expelling unrepentant sinners or heretics. After it is performed  
on people, they are \"shunned\" by other Jehovah's Witnesses.  
ANSWER:  disfellowshipp ing  
3. Along with Manet's  Luncheon on the Grass,  this painting was the highlight of the 1863 Salon  
des Refuses. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this portrait of the artist's mistress Joanna Hiffernan, who stands on a wolf skin  
holding a lily in front of a curtain that matches the color of her dress. You can also name the  
series of which it is the first entry.  
ANSWER:  The  White Girl  [or  Symphony in White , No. 1 ]  
[10] In his  Ten O'Clock Lecture,  this American artist explained his fondness for choosing  
colorful musical titles for his paintings, such as  Symphony in White  and  Nocturne in Black and  
Gold.   
ANSWER: James Abbott McNeill  Whistler   
[10] After a buyer withdrew his offer for Whistler's  Rose and Silver: The Princess from the Land  
of Porcelain  upon seeing the artist's gigantic signature, Whistler began to sign his paintings with  
a monogram of this kind of animal.  
ANSWER:  butterfly 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 BONUSES  
4. Answer these questions about the history of the Black Sea, for 10 points each.  
[10] This Italian home city of Andrea Doria and Christopher Columbus established the colony of  
Caffa on the Black Sea during its long trade war with Venice.  
ANSWER:  Genoa  [or  Genova ; or  Zena ]  
[10] In ancient times, this name was given to the non-Hellenic region due west of the Black Sea  
and north of Thessaly. Spartacus was one of many slaves traded from here.  
ANSWER:  Thrace  [or  Thracia ; or  Thraike ]  
[10] This town near the Black Sea was the site of a 1440s crusade and battle at which King  
Ulaszlo of Hungary and Poland was killed and the Turks forced John Hunyadi's army to flee.  
ANSWER:  Varna   
5. This language's alphabet consists of 31 letters, although \"Q,\" \"W,\" and \"Y\" are only used in  
foreign words. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this language that has both an s-comma and t-comma, and which changed its alphabet  
in 1860. Its \"Daco\" form is standard.  
ANSWER:  Romanian  [or  Romana ]  
[10] The Romanian alphabet switched to a Latin alphabet from this other kind of alphabet in  
1860.  
ANSWER:  Cyrillic  alphabet  
[10] Romanian is one of these Italic languages of the Indo-European family; other members of  
this group of Latin-derived languages include French and Italian.  
ANSWER:  Romance  languages  
6. In a novel by Cesar Aira, a member of this profession wears a black veil during an Indian raid  
after becoming disfigured in a lightning strike. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this profession of a man who stabs Maria Iribarne to death in Ernesto Sabato’s  The  
Tunnel.   
ANSWER:  painter  [or  artist ; or obvious equivalents]  
[10] This other Latin American author wrote about the painter Paul Gauguin in  The Way to  
Paradise.  He also satirized Peruvian politics in  Conversation in the Cathedral  and wrote  Aunt  
Julia and the Scriptwriter.   
ANSWER: Mario  Vargas Llosa   
[10] This writer featured the romance between a sculptor and an art critic in  The Buenos Aires  
Affair  but is better known for a novel in which Molina retells movies like  Cat People  to his  
cellmate.  
ANSWER: Manuel  Puig 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 BONUSES  
7. This city is the site of the Ben Ezra Synagogue, which stores a collection of over 200,000  
manuscripts. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this world capital, also home to the mosque of Muhammad Ali.  
ANSWER:  Cairo   
[10] This gathering place, whose name means \"liberation,\" is a center of public life in downtown  
Cairo and was the locus of the successful protests against the Egyptian government in 2011.  
ANSWER:  Tahrir  Square  
[10] This millenium-old university in Cairo is a leader in both Islamic jurisprudence and the  
study of Arabic-language literature.  
ANSWER: Al- Azhar  University  
8. This story's basic premise involves a long family feud between Georg and Ulrich's clans. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name this short story which ends with the two men trapped under a tree branch, prompting  
them to end the feud. Unfortunately for them, they are about to be eaten by wolves, who turn out  
to be the title figures.  
ANSWER: \"The  Interlopers \"  
[10] \"The Interlopers\" was written by this British short story author, whose other works with  
twist endings include \"The Open Window\" and \"Sredni Vashtar.\"  
ANSWER:  Saki  [or Hector Hugh  Munro ]  
[10] Framton Nuttel freaks out and runs at the end of \"The Open Window\" after being told  
stories by a mischievous young girl. The story's famous closing line says that this concept \"at  
short notice was her specialty.\"  
ANSWER:  romance  [do not accept any other answers]  
9. Name some third parties in U.S. presidential elections, for 10 points each.  
[10] In the 1996 and 2000 elections, this party garnered significant amounts of votes and  
attention when Ralph Nader ran for the office.  
ANSWER:  Green  Party of the United States  
[10] This party may be best known for running candidates such as Eugene V. Debs and Norman  
Thomas. Much of its support came from labor unions and progressives.  
ANSWER:  Socialist  Party of America  
[10] This party was mostly composed of farmers, who opposed the Resumption Act's attempt to  
return to hard money. Its candidates included Peter Cooper and, in 1880, James Weaver.  
ANSWER:  Greenback  Labor Party [or  National  Party; or  Independent  Party] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 BONUSES  
10. A Cassegrain reflector is commonly used in one type of these devices, which need to correct  
for Siedel aberrations. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these devices, whose optical varieties include the refracting and reflecting types.  
ANSWER:  telescope   
[10] Very Long Baseline Interferometry is often used on telescopic arrays that read signals in  
this band, which was used by Jansky to find a source at Sagittarius A. A signal of this type called  
LGM-1 was found to be from a pulsar.  
ANSWER:  radio   
[10] This set of methods develop by Horace Babcock can be used to remove atmospheric  
distortion and aberrations in telescopes. These methods include tilt-tip correction and the use of  
MEMS mirrors.  
ANSWER:  adaptive optic   
11. One writer proposed that sweet-smelling trees be planted around this city to combat odors in  
his 1661 tract Fumifugium. For ten points each:  
[10] Identify this city that experienced the Great Stink in 1858.  
ANSWER:  London   
[10] During the Great Stink, many scientists proposed that the fumes caused this disease, even  
though John Snow had proven this intestinal infection to be waterborne while studying the Broad  
Street outbreak four years earlier.  
ANSWER:  cholera   
[10] Although the London sewers were renovated by Joseph Bazalgette after the Stink, this  
sanitation advocate and reformer of the Poor Laws had been proposing modernization of the  
system for several decades.  
ANSWER: Edwin  Chadwick   
12. This character's younger self is represented by photographs of his actor from the film  
Reflections in a Golden Eye.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this brilliant West Point graduate played by Marlon Brando in a 1979 film. He goes  
insane, forms a cult at a Cambodian temple, and is eventually \"terminated with extreme  
prejudice\" by Captain Willard.  
ANSWER: Colonel  Kurtz  [or  Walter ]  
[10] Kurtz is an antagonist in this Francis Ford Coppola film set in the Vietnam War, an  
adaptation of  Heart of Darkness.   
ANSWER:  Apocalypse Now   
[10] Give the profession of the nameless character played by Dennis Hopper, who seems insane  
and tells Willard that Kurtz is a genius, calling him \"a poet-warrior in the classic sense.\" He uses  
the word \"man\" a lot.  
ANSWER: American  photojournalist  [or  photographer ; or  journalist ; or equivalent answers  
such as  reporter] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 BONUSES  
13. The title character of this novel becomes the wrestling coach at Steering School, and his  
father was a brain-damaged soldier. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this novel about the title writer, the son of Jenny Fields, who herself writes the  
autobiography  A Sexual Suspect  and is shot at a political rally.  
ANSWER:  The  World According to Garp   
[10]  The World According to Garp  is a novel by what American author who also wrote  A Prayer  
for Owen Meany  and  The Hotel New Hampshire.   
ANSWER: John  Irving  [or John Wallace  Blunt , Jr.]  
[10] In this John Irving novel, Wilbur Larch performs abortions at the St. Cloud's orphanage and  
is known as St. Larch. He is also the surrogate father of Homer Wells, who eventually takes over  
St. Cloud's as Dr. Fuzzy Stone.  
ANSWER:  The  Cider House Rules   
14. This man gave the speech \"The Self-Assertion of the German University\" after being named  
the rector of the University of Freiburg. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this philosopher who introduced the idea of  Dasein  to reflect personhood in  Being  
and Time.   
ANSWER: Martin  Heidegger   
[10] Heidegger controversially became a member of the Nazi Party in 1933; his student Hannah  
Arendt wrote about the trial of another Nazi three decades later in this book.  
ANSWER:  Eichmann in Jerusalem   
[10] Arendt's  The Origins of Totalitarianism  is divided into three sections, culminating in  
\"totalitarianism,\" which is shown to evolve from anti-Semitism and this subject of the middle  
section of the book.  
ANSWER:  imperialism   
15. This leader freed the hektemeroi by instituting a \"shaking-off of debts.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this leader who wrote a new law-code to replace a harsher one written by Draco.  
ANSWER:  Solon   
[10] This friend of Solon led the hyperakrioi and ruled Athens as a tyrant for 33 years; he was  
succeeded by his sons Hippias and Hipparchus.  
ANSWER:  Peisistratos   
[10] These two men became known as the \"tyrannicides\" for killing Hipparchus and beginning  
the restoration of Athenian democracy.  
ANSWER:  Harmodius  and  Aristogeiton  [either order, but don't accept or prompt on just one]  
16. This man fulfills a prophecy by throwing a discus, which goes off course and kills his  
grandfather Acrisius. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Greek hero who kills the Gorgon Medusa.  
ANSWER:  Perseus   
[10] Perseus agrees to bring back the head of Medusa because he cannot gift Polydectes one of  
these animals. King Laomedon promised immortal ones as a gift to Heracles.  
ANSWER:  horse s  
[10] In a myth parallel to the Andromeda story, King Laomedon tried to appease Poseidon by  
exposing this Trojan princess to be eaten by a sea monster.  
ANSWER:  Hesione 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 BONUSES  
17. An example of these genes is BRAF, which is activated by a V600E mutation and inhibited  
by vemurafenib. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these genes like Ras and src, which when mutated or activated at a high level, cause  
cancer. They're conceived of as the opposite of tumor suppressor genes.  
ANSWER: proto- oncogene s [or  oncoprotein s]  
[10] BRAF inhibitors have recently been approved to treat the metastatic form of this skin  
cancer, which often begin as asymmetric, darkly-colored blobs.  
ANSWER:  melanoma   
[10] Another important oncogene is this fusion protein generated by the Philadelphia  
chromosome. It is inhibited by the drug imatinib.  
ANSWER:  bcr-abl  tyrosine kinase  
18. This quantity is equal to the enthalpy minus the entropy times temperature. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this quantity whose change is less than zero for a spontaneous reaction.  
ANSWER:  Gibbs  free energy [or delta  ]  G 
[10] The equilibrium constant for a reaction is equal to the negative exponential of the Gibbs free  
energy at standard state divided by this two term constant.  
ANSWER:  temperature  times universal  gas constant  [or  RT ; or obvious equivalents, such as  
temperature  times  ]  R 
[10] Gibbs derived this statistical ensemble used to describe a system in contact with a heat bath,  
but not a particle bath.  
ANSWER:  canonical  ensemble [do not accept \"grand canonical ensemble\" or \"microcanonical  
ensemble\" or other wrong answers]  
19. A five-note rising motif played by the cellos follows its opening in 5/8 rhythm, which evokes  
Charon rowing on the river Styx. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this symphonic poem that quotes the  Dies irae  as the oarsman approaches the subject  
of an Arnold Bocklin painting.  
ANSWER:  The  Isle of the Dead   
[10] This morose late Romantic Russian composer produced  The Isle of the Dead,  as well as  The  
Bells  and  Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini.   
ANSWER: Sergei Vasilievich  Rachmaninoff   
[10] This D-minor orchestral composition by Rachmaninoff, whose first movement cadenza  
exists in two versions, was played by Van Cliburn to thunderous applause at the inaugural  
International Tchaikovsky Competition in 1958.  
ANSWER:  Piano Concerto No. 3  in D minor  [or  third piano concerto ; prompt on  piano  
concerto ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 15 BONUSES  
20. In a critical study on this author \"and his World,\" Russian literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin  
developed the concept of the \"grotesque.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this early French author who often ventured into crude humor in his tales of the giants  
Gargantua and Pantagruel.  
ANSWER: Francois  Rabelais   
[10] Upon arriving in Paris for his education, Gargantua climbs Notre Dame and performs this  
action, which kills many people below.  
ANSWER:  urinate s on the crowd below [or obvious equivalents; prompt on  flooding the city  or  
similar answers]  
[10] In the third book, Pantagruel and Panurge set sail in search of this person, whose wisdom  
can determine whether Panurge ought to marry or not.  
ANSWER: the  Oracle  of the  Holy Bottle  [or the  Oracle  of  Bacbuc ]  
21. In one of this play's two endings, the female journalist Feletti is handcuffed to a window in a  
room where a bomb is about to go off. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this play in which The Maniac foils the efforts of police inspector Bertozzo. It was  
inspired by the real-life story of Giuseppe Pinelli.  
ANSWER:  Accidental Death of an Anarchist  [or  Morte accidentale di un anarchico ]  
[10] The Maniac form Dario Fo's  Accidental Death of an Anarchist  resembles the clowns from  
this late Renaissance form of Italian comic theater. Its stock character Arlecchino is the basis for  
our word \"harlequin.\"  
ANSWER:  commedia dell'arte   
[10]  Accidental Death of an Anarchist  is in this genre of fast-paced, madcap comedy which often  
features scenes where characters chase each other through many doors. Michael Frayn's  Noises  
Off  parodies this genre.  
ANSWER:  farce 
