VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 14 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In one poem by this man, the speaker writes, “Well, I like to eat, sleep, drink, and be in love,” as part of 
his assignment for English class. In another poem, this poet described entities “ancient as the world and 
older than the flow of human blood in human veins.” This poet asked, “Or does it explode?” of an entity he 
earlier examined with the question, “Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun?” For 10 points, name this poet 
of “Theme for English B” and “The Negro Speaks of Rivers” who wrote of a “dream deferred” in 
“Harlem.” 
ANSWER: Langston  
Hughes 
 [or James Mercer Langston  
Hughes 
] 
014-12-71-14101 
2. In quantum mechanics, the operator for this quantity is written as negative i h-bar grad. Although not 
acceleration, for rigid body motion, Euler's first law can be formulated in terms of this vector quantity. 
While inelastic collisions do not conserve kinetic energy, they do conserve this quantity. For a force that 
depends on time, the integral from time one to time two of the force with respect to time gives the change 
in this quantity, or impulse. For 10 points, identify this quantity equal to mass times velocity. 
ANSWER: linear  
momentum 
 [or translational  
momentum 
] 
066-12-71-14102 
3. The distribution denoted by this term is not obtained if an experiment is conducted without replacement; 
instead, one gets the hypergeometric distribution. That distribution given this name is written n choose k 
times p to the k times the quantity 1 minus p raised to the n minus k. When n equals 1, one gets the 
Bernoulli distribution from this one. Although not binary, this term refers to a system of nomenclature in 
which organisms are identified by genus and species. For 10 points, identify this term that also refers to a 
polynomial with two terms. 
ANSWER:  
binomial 
066-12-71-14103 
4. Beginning in 1969, the site of one of these institutions was occupied by Native American protesters for 
two years. Nixon met with Johnny Cash to discuss reform of these places. The killing of George Jackson in 
one of these places led to the Attica Riot in another of them. Theodore Cole and Ralph Roe drowned while 
fleeing from one of these places, which was the prototype for the modern \"supermax\" variety. For 10 
points, name these institutions, one of which was notoriously operated on Alcatraz Island. 
ANSWER:  
prison 
s [or  
jail 
s; or  
penitentiaries 
; or  
islands 
 until \"places\" is first read] 
080-12-71-14104 
5. One commander in this war was killed by a cannonball after his opponent crossed the Lech (LEK) on a 
bridge of boats. Events in this war included the assassination of Albrecht von Wallenstein, who fought the 
Battle of Lutzen undermanned against a king who had earlier won the Battle of Breitenfeld. This war's final 
French-Swedish phase was ended by the Peace of Westphalia. For 10 points, name this war of religion that 
ravaged the Holy Roman Empire and lasted from 1618 to 1648. 
ANSWER:  
Thirty Years' 
 War 
014-12-71-14105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  1 of 9 
6. The Debye model of this quantity determines the effect of vibrations in a solid on this quantity. For a 
fluid, this quantity can be calculated differently in the cases of constant pressure or constant volume. The 
relation of this quantity to molar mass is determined using the Dulong-Petit law. Written in units of 
kilojoules per kilogram-Celsius, this quantity is 4.184 for water. For 10 points, name this quantity, the 
amount of heat needed to raise the temperature of a system by one degree Celsius. 
ANSWER:  
specific heat 
 capacity [accept  
heat capacity 
] 
140-12-71-14106 
7. The protagonist of one of this author’s books dresses up as a cowboy in order to see if the bandit Joaquin 
Murieta is her lover Joaquin Andieta. The character created by this author settles for Tao Chien and is 
named Eliza Sommers. This author of  
Daughter of Fortune 
 also created a work in which Count Jean de 
Satigny visits the hacienda Las Tres Marias. This author is most famous for a work about the Trueba 
family, into which the clairvoyant Clara marries. For 10 points, name this female Chilean author of  
The 
House of the Spirits. 
ANSWER: Isabel  
Allende 
149-12-71-14107 
8. This man criticized Proudhon’s ideas about exchange value in the  
Poverty of Philosophy 
. In a different 
work, this man claimed that culture is part of a society’s superstructure, which is produced by its base. This 
Young Hegelian believed that a dictatorship of the proletariat needed to come before socialism. In a 
different work, he claimed that “religion is the opiate of the masses.” This author of  
Das Kapital 
 stated that 
history was the product of class struggle in a work that he co-authored with Friedrich Engels. For 10 points, 
name this author of  
The Communist Manifesto 
. 
ANSWER: Karl  
Marx 
149-12-71-14108 
9. This poet began a narrative poem in four cantos with a mock invocation explicitly not calling on the 
Muses to assist him. He wrote, “One shade the more, one ray the less, had half impaired the nameless grace 
which waves in every raven tress,” in a poem describing a woman “like the night of cloudless climes and 
starry skies.” He also wrote an unfinished comical epic about a Spaniard easily seduced by women. For 10 
points, name this British poet of “She Walks in Beauty” and  
Don Juan. 
ANSWER: Lord  
Byron 
 [or George Gordon  
Byron 
] 
014-12-71-14109 
10. The Wickersham Comisssion made a study of this period, during which Eliot Ness led his team of 
\"Untouchables.\" At the beginning of this period, Congress passed the Volstead Act. \"Speakeasies\" operated 
during this period, which also saw the rise of organized crime bosses like Al Capone. Supported by the 
\"dries\" and opposed by the \"wets,\" it began with the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment. For 10 points, 
name this period of United States history in which alcohol was illegal. 
ANSWER:  
Prohibition 
 [prompt on the  
1920s 
 before \"Volstead Act\"] 
080-12-71-14110 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  2 of 9 
11. The sensitization step of creating a daguerreotype employs a vapor of one of these elements. Along 
with carbon and hydrogen, DDT and CFCs contain atoms of this group of elements. One of these elements 
is the only nonmetal that is a liquid at room temperature. Most of these elements form diatomic molecules 
in standard conditions, and one example is bonded to sodium in table salt. For 10 points, name these 
non-metallic elements, which have a minus one oxidation state and include bromine, chlorine, and fluorine. 
ANSWER:  
halogen 
s [accept  
group 17 
 elements] 
140-12-71-14111 
12. On the outskirts of this city, one can look at the ancient Buddhist art in the Kanheri Caves, part of 
Sanjay Gandhi National Park. This city originally consisted of seven different islands, which the British 
gradually united through land reclamation. This city's waterfront contains the Gateway of India, which 
faces its harbor on the Arabian Sea. This capital of Maharashtra state is the home of a notorious Indian 
variant of Hollywood. For 10 points, name this most populous city in India. 
ANSWER:  
Mumbai 
 [or  
Bombay 
] 
080-12-71-14112 
13. One type of this device partially consisted of a boom with an attached mass suspended by a pivot and a 
silk thread; that type of this device was the horizontal pendulum one devised by John Milne. A primitive 
version of this device created by the astronomer Zhang Heng had eight dragon heads that dropped a ball 
into the mouth of eight frogs beneath them. A more modern type scratches out a wave pattern with a 
needle. For 10 points, identify this device that detects or records the waves created by an earthquake. 
ANSWER:  
seismograph 
 [or  
seismoscope 
; or  
seismometer 
] 
066-12-71-14113 
14. This poet reflected on his experiences in the Spanish Civil War in a poem beginning, “Yesterday all the 
past.” He described an “expensive delicate ship” that “had somewhere to get to and sailed calmly on” in an 
ekphrastic poem that begins, “About suffering they were never wrong, the Old Masters.” He also wrote the 
line, “We must love one another or die,” in a poem inspired by the outbreak of World War II. For 10 
points, name this British poet of “Musee des Beaux Arts” and “September 1, 1939.” 
ANSWER: W. H.  
Auden 
 [or Wystan Hugh  
Auden 
] 
014-12-71-14114 
15. In molecular biology, this type of activity is the cleavage of DNA at non-canonical locations by 
restriction enzymes under non-optimal conditions. A heuristic function is combined with Dijkstra's 
algorithm in the algorithm called A this. One family of objects known as this are classified from O to M 
based on their spectral class. Examples of those objects include Alioth, Procyon, and Sirius. For 10 points, 
name these gravitational bound balls of hot gas and plasma, exemplified by the sun. 
ANSWER:  
star 
001-12-71-14115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 14 
Directed Round 
1A.  What Israeli missile defense system shot down 85% of Palestinian rockets headed for population 
centers during Operation Pillar of Defense? 
ANSWER: the  
Iron Dome 
 [or the  
Iron Cap 
; or  
Kipat Barzel 
] 
1B.  What poetry term refers to a kind of rhyme in which only the final syllables of the lines rhyme? 
ANSWER:  
masculine 
 rhyme 
2A. What kind of medications is split into classes like cephalosporins and sulfonamides is used to treat 
bacterial infections? 
ANSWER:  
antibiotic 
s 
2B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Given a circle with a diameter of 10 units, what is the length, 
in terms of pi, of an arc that subtends an angle of 108 degrees? 
ANSWER:  
3 pi 
 units 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. A card is drawn from a standard 52-card deck. If the card is 
not a spade, find the probability that it is red. 
ANSWER:  
2/3 
3B.  What man spent 27 years in prison before working with F.W. de Klerk to end apartheid? 
ANSWER: Nelson Rolihlahla  
Mandela 
 [or  
Madiba 
] 
4A.  Name this collection of pieces in which Edward Elgar used musical cryptograms to depict his family 
and friends in movements like \"Nimrod.\" 
ANSWER:  
Enigma Variations 
4B.  What word in one form describes a group of poets that included John Donne and Andrew Marvell and 
also names as a branch of philosophy that studies “being  
qua 
 being?” 
ANSWER:  
metaphysic 
al [or word forms] 
5A.  In what state was Tammy Baldwin elected senator and Scott Walker maintain his position of governor 
in a recall election? 
ANSWER:  
Wisconsin 
5B.  Name the classic rock band that has continued performing songs such as “Light My Fire” and “Riders 
on the Storm” to the present day, despite the 1971 death of iconic lead singer Jim Morrison. 
ANSWER: the  
Doors 
6A.  What maximally efficient thermodynamic cycle, named for a French engineer, consists of two 
adiabatic steps and two isothermal steps? 
ANSWER:  
Carnot 
 cycle 
6B.  What Christian holiday celebrates the Biblical event when the Holy Spirit empowered the apostles to 
speak in tongues? 
ANSWER:  
Pentecost 
 [or  
Whitsun 
day] 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Determine the number of positive integers that are factors of 
the number 24. 
ANSWER:  
8 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the cosine of the inverse tangent of -1. 
ANSWER: square  
root 
 of  ,  
2 over 2 
 [or  
1 over 
 square  
root 
 of  ; or  
2 radical 2, over 2 
] 
8A.  What pen name is universally used for French author Jean-Baptiste Poquelin, who wrote such classic 
plays as  
The Imaginary Invalid, Tartuffe, 
   and  
The Misanthrope 
? 
ANSWER:  
Moliere 
8B.  In paintings like  
Golconda 
 and  
The Son of Man 
, Rene Magritte painted men wearing what kind of 
headgear? 
ANSWER:  
bowler hat 
 [or  
coke hat 
; or  
derby 
; or  
billycock 
; or  
bombin 
; prompt on  
hat 
] 
9A.  What language’s writing system features sets of symbols known as hiragana and katakana? 
ANSWER:  
Japanese 
9B. What measurement of the acidity of a substance is measured with indicators like methyl red? 
ANSWER:  
pH 
10A.  What Polish anthropologist authored  
Coral Gardens and their Magic 
 and  
Argonauts of the Western 
Pacific 
? 
ANSWER: Bronislaw  
Malinowski 
10B.  What layer of the atmosphere, named for the charged gas that makes it up, includes the thermosphere 
and exosphere? 
ANSWER:  
ionosphere 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 14 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This god was once left thirsty when his brother hid water from him, and had to be rescued by that 
brother's large hat after being abandoned in a fog. In Haida myth, this god brings salmon and berries to feed 
the first human beings, whom this animal finds in a clamshell. This brother of Logobola also placed the sun 
and moon in the sky and wrangled with the trickster Coyote. For 10 points, name this god of western 
Native American myth, who took the form of a black bird. 
ANSWER:  
Raven 
 [or  
Nankilslas 
; or  
Hemaskas 
; or  
Txamsem 
; or  
 Wegyet 
; or  
Yehl 
; or  
Kewkwaxawe 
] 
019-12-71-14117 
2. The Alu element in humans is an example of one of these entities. One class of these entities utilizes 
reverse transcriptase to carry out its “cut and paste” mechanism. Surrounded by inverted repeats, these 
elements were first discovered by Barbara McClintock in maize, where they are responsible for mutations 
that alter the color of kernels. For 10 points, name these sequences of DNA known as “jumping genes,” 
which can move to a different location in an organism’s genome. 
ANSWER:  
transposon 
 [accept  
transposable element 
; accept  
retrotransposon 
; prompt on  
jumping gene 
s until mention] 
140-12-71-14118 
3. In a State of the Union address, this President declared that \"the era of big government is over.\" This 
President signed the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which repealed the financial regulations of the 
Glass-Steagall Act. This President was criticized for the American jobs lost as a result of the North 
American Free Trade Agreement. During his tenure, the Dow Jones more than tripled and the government 
deficit was turned into a surplus. For 10 points, name this Democrat first elected President in 1992. 
ANSWER: William Jefferson  
Clinton 
080-12-71-14119 
4. A uniformly magnetized object of this shape will have a magnetic field equal to two-thirds the 
permeability of free space times the magnetization. Legendre polynomials are solutions to the Laplace 
equation in this type of coordinate system. If an object of this shape is charged, the electric potential is the 
same as that of a point charge. The moment of inertia for this shape is two-thirds the mass times the radius 
squared. For 10 points, name these three-dimensional surfaces whose points are all an equal distance from 
the center. 
ANSWER: hollow  
sphere 
 [or  
ball 
, or word forms] 
121-12-71-14120 
5. This man wrote a “tone parallel” to the history of blacks in America called  
Black, Brown and Beige. 
 In a 
short film, this man's wife Fredi Washington dances herself to death while his band plays his “Black and 
Tan Fantasy.” Billy Strayhorn composed the theme of his orchestra, “Take the A Train.” He wrote the 
piece that brought him worldwide fame while working in the Cotton Club. For 10 points, name this jazz 
pianist who composed “Mood Indigo.” 
ANSWER: Edward “Duke”  
Ellington 
121-12-71-14121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  6 of 9 
6. Members of the Labour party criticized their own prime minister, Harold Wilson, for sending Lord 
Shepherd to this man's funeral. This man was interred at the prisoner-built Valley of the Fallen and was 
succeeded by the democratizing King Juan Carlos I. This leader of the Falangists launched a coup from the 
Canary Islands and succeeded in defeating the Republicans in the late 1930s. For 10 points, name this 
\"generalissimo\" who, until his 1975 death, was the dictator of Spain. 
ANSWER: Francisco Paulino Hermenegildo Teódulo  
Franco 
 Bahamonde 
019-12-71-14122 
7. An important measure of this thing's performance is CAS latency. The individual cells of this thing 
consists of a transistor-capacitor pair. If the capacity of this thing is not enough, one can supplement it with 
a page file or swap partition. Portable computers, like laptops, typically use it in its \"SO-DIMM\" form. It is 
primary storage and its most common type is the third version of its double data rate, synchronous dynamic 
type, or DDR3. For 10 points, name this quick, volatile memory that comes in namesake \"sticks.\" 
ANSWER:  
RAM 
 [or  
random-access memory 
; prompt on volatile  
memory 
; prompt on  
primary storage 
; 
do not accept \"ROM\" or \"read-only memory\"] 
066-12-71-14123 
8. This poet wrote that “Death is the mother of beauty” in an early poem that opens by describing the effect 
of the “complacencies of the peignoir.” In another poem, he describes a woman who “sang beyond the 
genius of the sea.” The title figure of another of his poems demands, “Let be be finale of seem,” and that 
the “roller of big cigars” whip up the title dessert. For 10 points, name this American poet of “Sunday 
Morning,” “The Idea of Order at Key West,” and “The Emperor of Ice-Cream.” 
ANSWER: Wallace  
Stevens 
014-12-71-14124 
9. In one episode of this show, Sinead O’Connor tore up an image of John Paul II. The films  
Superstar 
 and  
It’s Pat 
 were based on this show. Ashlee Simpson was caught lip-synching to one of her songs on one 
episode of this program. This show debuted in 1975 and was created by current producer Lorne Michaels. 
Current performers on it include Fred Armisen and Bill Hader, who plays the bizarre Stefon during the 
“Weekend Update” segment. For 10 points, name this late-night NBC sketch comedy show that airs on the 
weekend. 
ANSWER:  
Saturday Night Live 
 [or  
SNL 
] 
052-12-71-14125 
10. The eleven objects which bow down to Joseph in a dream in the Bible correlate with eleven objects in 
this painting. A preliminary attempt at this canvas depicts it \"over the Rhone.\" A white church is the most 
prominent building in this work, in which the Alpilles mountains appear to the far right. Its painter blended 
many of the things he saw outside the window of his asylum in Saint-Remy. A black cypress tree shaped 
like a flame lies in front of a swirling sky in this painting. For 10 points, name this most famous painting by 
Vincent Van Gogh. 
ANSWER:  
The  Starry Night 
 [or  
De  sterrennacht 
] 
020-12-71-14126 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  7 of 9 
11. A school located in this city defeated 2nd seeded South Carolina in the 1997 NCAA basketball 
tournament; that school in this city is Coppin State. This city is the location of the subject of the 
documentary  
The Band that Wouldn’t Die 
, referring to a marching band that has supported three pro 
football franchises in this city. Brian Billick coached a team from this city to victory in Super Bowl XXXV, 
and Earl Weaver was a successful manager for a baseball team here that featured Brooks Robinson and Cal 
Ripken, Jr. For 10 points, name this city that is the home of the Ravens and Orioles. 
ANSWER:  
Baltimore 
030-12-71-14127 
12. The headquarters of the African Union is in this country's capital. A triple junction is the reason for the 
Afar Depression in this country. This country's Jewish population, the Falash Mura, is in the process of 
emigrating to Israel. This country contains Lake Tana, the source of the Blue Nile. This country borders 
Somalia to the east and Eritrea to the north. Government business in this country is conducted in a Semitic 
language, Amharic. For 10 points, name this landlocked country on the Horn of Africa, the birthplace of 
Haile Selassie. 
ANSWER:  
Ethiopia 
080-12-71-14128 
13. This city contains a statue of Martin Luther King carved out of the \"Stone of Hope\" and standing in 
front of a wall covered in his quotations. This city has restricted the height of residential buildings to 90 
feet. Yukio Ozaki's gift of cherry trees to this city is commemorated every year by the Cherry Blossom 
Festival. A landmark in this city consists of a black wall gouged into the earth and covered with names of 
soldiers; that artwork was designed by Maya Lin. For 10 points, name this city that contains the Vietnam 
Veterans memorial as well as the Jefferson and Lincoln memorials. 
ANSWER:  
Washington 
, D.C. [or Washington,  
D.C. 
; or Washington,  
District of Columbia 
] 
080-12-71-14129 
14. Along with John Glenn, this member of the \"Keating Five\" was cleared of improper actions. This man 
used a bus called the \"Straight Talk Express\" during a primary. In 2006, this man retracted his claim that 
Jerry Falwell was an \"agent of intolerance.\" This man sponsored a bipartisan campaign finance reform bill 
with Russ Feingold. During the Vietnam War, this man was tortured in the \"Hanoi Hilton.\" For 10 points, 
name this \"maverick\" Arizona Senator who lost the 2008 presidential election to Barack Obama. 
ANSWER: John Sidney  
McCain 
 III 
080-12-71-14130 
15. This author popularized the term \"metaphysical poetry\" in his  
Life of Cowley 
, part of a collection of 
about fifty \"prefaces, biographical and critical\" called the  
Lives of the Poets 
. His own poetry includes an 
imitation of Juvenal's tenth satire titled \"The Vanity of Human Wishes.\" Though not the first of its kind, his 
Dictionary of the English Language 
 became the most popular dictionary for over a century. For 10 points, 
name this 18th-century English writer, the subject of a biography by his friend James Boswell. 
ANSWER: Samuel  
Johnson 
080-12-71-14131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 14 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. In this work, one character uses a letter placed in a basket of apricots to break up with the protagonist, 
who had earlier moved to Yonville. This work’s protagonist borrows money from Lheureux while visiting 
Leon Dupuis in Paris. Charles and Homais botch an experimental surgery on the club-footed Hippolyte in 
this novel, whose main character commits suicide using arsenic after Rodolphe Boulanger forsakes her. For 
10 points, name this novel about Emma’s many affairs, which was written by Gustave Flaubert 
(floe-BAIR). 
ANSWER:  
Madame Bovary 
149-12-71-14132 
2. This group had Alani and Asdingi branches. Majorian and Basiliscus were defeated in attempts to 
overthrow one of this group's rulers. These peoples were defeated in the battles of Ad Decimum and 
Tricamarum by the Byzantines under Belisarius, resulting in the capture of their last king, Gelimer. Other 
rulers of these people included Gaiseric, who led this group in its 455 sack of Rome. For 10 points, name 
this Germanic people whose name has become synonymous with wanton destruction. 
ANSWER:  
Vandal 
s 
030-12-71-14133 
3. Several proteins in the pathway responsible for this process have Kringle domains, and overactivation of 
this process causes TTP. The extrinsic part of this pathway relies on activation by tissue factor, and a 
mutation named for the city of Leiden leads to overactivation of it. Von Willebrand factor is also an 
activator of this process, several proteins in which require vitamin K for activation. This process produces a 
cross-linked fibrin mesh, and defects in this process result in hemophilia. For 10 points, name this process 
that prevents exsanguination after a wound or tear in a blood vessel. 
ANSWER:  
clotting 
 [accept  
coagulation 
, accept word forms] 
048-12-71-14134 
4. This poem’s final stanza notes how “thy willing soul transpires at every pore with instant fires.” The 
speaker recommends that he and the addressee “tear our pleasure with rough strife thorough the iron gates 
of life” before concluding, “Thus, though we cannot make our sun stand still, yet we will make him run.” 
This poem’s first stanza relates how the speaker’s love would develop “had we but world enough, and 
time.” For 10 points, name this seduction poem addressed to a hesitant woman written by Andrew Marvell. 
ANSWER: “ 
To His Coy Mistress 
” 
014-12-71-14135 
5. Examples of these objects in the Messier catalog include M20, the Trifid, in Sagittarius. One type of 
object given this name is the gas emitted by a dying star, which resembled planets in old telescopes and is 
thus known as the \"planetary\" kind. One of these is found in Taurus and is Messier object M1, the remnants 
of a supernova that burned day and night for three weeks in 1054. For 10 points, give this word, from the 
Latin for “cloud,” that designates large masses of gas in the interstellar medium, such as the “crab.” 
ANSWER:  
nebula 
 [or  
nebulae 
] 
019-12-71-14136 
What co-founder of the group f/64 photographed sites in the American West such as Manzanar internment 
camp and, in the picture  
Moon and Half Dome, 
 Yosemite Park? 
ANSWER: Ansel  
Adams 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     14     Page  9 of 9 
