Colonia Tournament 
Round 6 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. This author of a campaign biography for Millard Fillmore wrote about Reverend Hooper's refusal to 
remove sinister headwear in \"The Minister's Black Veil.\" This man included a story about Aylmer killing 
Georgianna while trying to remove the title blemish in his story collection  
Mosses from an Old Manse 
. For 
10 points name this author of \"The Birthmark\" also known for novels like  
The House of the Seven Gables 
and  
The Scarlet Letter 
. 
ANSWER: Nathaniel  
Hawthorne 
015-10-14-06101 
2. Pahoehoe is produced by many of these geological features, which generally do not generate pyroclastic 
flows. A fissure in one of these geological features can create a curtain of fire. These features are usually 
formed through effusive eruptions and have very low-viscosity, fluid lava that can spread over long 
distances, making some of these features the largest mountains on earth. For 10 points, name these 
gentle-sloped volcanoes that include Mauna Loa and Kiluaea. 
ANSWER:  
shield 
 volcanoes 
036-10-14-06102 
3. The outer surface of these structures are covered in a material that contains amelogenins 
(AM-uh-lo-JEN-ins) instead of collagens. Another part of these structures is covered by cementum 
(see-MEN-tum); that part is the root, whose central part is the pulp. The primary type of these structures are 
typically lost starting around age six. Enamel covers the upper surface of, for 10 points, what structures used 
to chew food? 
ANSWER:  
teeth 
003-10-14-06103 
4. This artist depicted disfigured and naked men trying to get into a boat that bears three people in his 
painting  
The Barque of Dante 
. In another work, this artist painted an Ottoman on a horse that is rearing 
above a group of thirteen Greek civilians. This painter of  
The Women of Algiers 
 also created a work in which 
a man in a top hat participates in a mob that is led by a woman in a Phrygian cap, holding a tricolor flag. For 
10 points, name this French Romantic artist who painted  
Massacre at Chios 
 and  
Liberty Leading the People 
. 
ANSWER: Ferdinand Victor Eugene  
Delacroix 
036-10-14-06104 
5. This element is part of a sandwich compound with two cyclopentadienyl 
(\"SIGH\"-klo-PEN-tuh-dye-EEN-uhl) ligands. Nuclear fusion in stars halts at this element, since elements 
heavier than this require a supernova to form. The form in which this element is typically found, the pig 
type, has excess carbon removed and metals like chromium added. An ore of this element is hematite, and 
this element is refined to form steel. For 10 points, name this element with symbol Fe. 
ANSWER:  
iron 
 [or  
Fe 
 before mentioned] 
022-10-14-06105 
6. In  
Treasure Mountain 
, these creatures held scrolls and asked questions if you caught them with a net. In 
Warcraft II, these creatures gave the human side Destroyers and Archers, and World of Warcraft includes 
\"Night\" and \"Blood\" types. For 10 points, name these creatures that are typically depicted with elongated 
ears and sometimes come in \"Wood\" or \"Dark\" varieties. 
ANSWER:  
elves 
003-10-14-06106 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  1 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. This thinker argued that adherence to a \"Doctrine of the Mean\" between excess and deficiency was the 
ultimate expression of virtue in his  
Nichomachean Ethics 
. This thinker outlined the material, formal, 
efficient, and final causes of nature in one work. This man defined the genre of tragedy and stated that the 
aim of poetry and art is representation, or mimesis in another work. For 10 points, identify this ancient 
Greek philosopher, author of  
Metaphysics Rhetoric 
,  , and  
Poetics 
, the most famous student of Plato. 
ANSWER:  
Aristotle 
s 
005-10-14-06107 
8. The title character of this opera sings the aria \"Ritorna vincitor\" (ree-TOR-nah VEEN-key-tor) about her 
conflicted loyalties. In this opera, the king Amanasro (ah-mah-NAS-roh) is captured while disguised as a 
peasant. The lead tenor in this opera is engaged to marry Amneris (ahm-NEY-ris), but is instead sealed in a 
tomb to die. This opera focuses on a princess of Ethiopia who is enslaved by Egypt and falls in love with 
Radames (RAA-da-meez). For 10 points, name this opera, commissioned to celebrate the opening of the 
Suez Canal and written by Giuseppe Verdi. 
ANSWER:  
Aida 
 (eye-EE-duh) 
019-10-14-06108 
9. This vitamin enhances iron absorption and is crucial for the synthesis of collagen. Pneumonia as well as 
colds can supposedly be treated with megadoses of this anti-oxidant vitamin. Deficiency of this vitamin 
leads to a disease characterized by fragile skin and bleeding gums, scurvy. For 10 points, name this vitamin 
also called ascorbic (ass-KOR-bic) acid and found in citrus fruits like oranges. 
ANSWER:  
Vitamin C 
 [or  
ascorbic acid 
 before mentioned] 
032-10-14-06109 
10. This author's musically inspired novels include  
Napoleon Symphony 
 and  
Mozart and the Wolf Gang 
. 
This twentieth century novelist wrote a book subtitled \"A Story of Shakespeare's Love Life\" in  
Nothing Like 
the Sun 
. One of this man's works focuses on a patron of the Korova Milk Bar. That main character of a work 
by this man undergoes the Ludovico technique, which causes him to hate Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and 
abandon ultraviolence. For 10 points, name this man who wrote about Alex DeLarge's droogs in the work  
A 
Clockwork Orange 
. 
ANSWER: John Anthony  
Burgess 
 Wilson [or Joseph  
Kell 
] 
033-10-14-06110 
11. An ion containing this element along with fluorine and oxygen has been predicted stable. In one 
experiment, the nuclei of this element were fired at a thin layer of gold atoms. Superfluidity has been 
observed in both its isotopes three and four. This element is the lightest with a full s subshell. Its nuclei are 
alpha particles. For 10 points, name this gas with atomic number two. 
ANSWER:  
helium 
 [or  
He 
] 
022-10-14-06111 
12. One poem by this author describes H.P. and a cottage in Berkeley that is still mostly empty. This author 
wrote about seeing Garcia Lorca by the watermelons in a poem in which he meets Walt Whitman. This 
author of \"Transcription of Organ Music\" also wrote \"Strange not to think of you, gone without corsets and 
eyes\" in a poem dedicated to his mother Naomi. This author of \"A Supermarket in California\" wrote the line 
\"I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness\" in another poem. For 10 points, name this 
American Beat poet who wrote \"Kaddish\" and \"Howl.\" 
ANSWER: Irwin Allen  
Ginsberg 
036-10-14-06112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  2 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. One theorem named for this man says that if a prime p divides \"a times b,\" then either p divides a or p 
divides b. The solutions predicted by the Chinese Remainder Theorem can be found using the extended form 
of this man's namesake algorithm, which finds the greatest common divisor of two numbers. Hyperbolic 
geometries arise when this man's fifth postulate does not hold. For 10 points, name this Greek mathematician 
whose treatise on geometry is the  
Elements 
. 
ANSWER:  
Euclid 
028-10-14-06113 
14. Khuiten Peak is part of the Five Saints Peaks in this nation's section of the Altay Mountains, which form 
part of the northwestern boundary of this nation. Lake Khovsgol lies near this nation's Khangai Mountains 
and drains north into the Selenge River. The northern range of the wild Bactrian camel lies in this country, 
which lies north of Xinjiang and south of Tuva and which also contains the cold Gobi Desert. For 10 points, 
name this country of steppes with a capital at Ulan Bator that is landlocked between China and Russia. 
ANSWER:  
Mongolia 
036-10-14-06114 
15. This author wrote about a son of Bachus and Circe who attempts to kidnap The Lady in his masque  
Comus 
. He penned the phrase \"Look homeward Angel now\" in his elegy on the death of Edward King. He 
wrote that \"books are not absolutely dead things\" in his pamphlet advocating free speech,  
Areopagitica 
(AIR-ee-oh-pah-JIH-tih-cah). This author is best known for a work that details the construction of 
Pandemonium and the tempting of Eve. For 10 points, name this British author who wrote about the fall of 
the rebel angels in his epic poem  
Paradise Lost 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Milton 
015-10-14-06115 
16. Drugs like mefloquine (ME-flo-kwine) and doxycyclin (DOCKZ-ee-SY-klin) are used prophylactically 
(PRO-fill-ACT-ic-al-ee) to prevent this disease, which was first treated in the nineteenth century with drugs 
extracted from cinchona. Resistance to this illness is observed in carriers of another sickle cell anemia. This 
illness is caused by the destruction of red blood cells by the sporozoite form of a parasite of genus  
Plasmodium 
. For 10 points, name this disease that is transmitted by the  
Anopheles 
 mosquito and treated with 
quinine. 
ANSWER:  
malaria 
032-10-14-06116 
17. This President attempted to intervene with Egypt to save Israeli spies behind the Lavon (luh-VAHN) 
affair. In Operation Blue Bat, this man sent 15,000 troops to Lebanon as part of his namesake \"doctrine\" to 
intervene in countries threatened by Communism. This President oversaw the creation of the Interstate 
Highway System. This man forced the Arkansas National guard to integrate the Little Rock Nine. Before 
becoming president, this man served as the first Supreme Commander of NATO. For 10 points, name this 
World War II general and president of the U.S. 
ANSWER: Dwight David  
Eisenhower 
 [or Ike  
Eisenhower 
] 
015-10-14-06117 
18. In this literary work, the dog Argos recognizes his master although he is disguised as a beggar. Another 
character in this work, who notices a scar while washing that beggar's feet, is the old nurse Eurycleia 
(YURR-ick-LAY-uh). The heroine of this work resists her suitors by weaving and unweaving a burial 
shroud for her father-in-law, Laertes (LAY-ur-teez). The hero of this work is held at Ogygia (oh-JI-jee-uh) 
by Calypso when the narration begins. For 10 points, what epic, featuring the characters Telemachus 
(tel-EM-uh-kuss) and Penelope is set after  
The Iliad 
 by Homer? 
ANSWER: The  
Odyssey 
034-10-14-06118 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  3 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. Current lags voltage in these circuit components by ninety degrees. The potential energy stored in one of 
these devices is equal to \"one-half current squared times\" a namesake quantity. These devices create a 
reactance proportional to \"2 pi times the frequency,\" causing them to resist the flow of alternating current. 
These devices often consist of a coiled wire, and Faraday's Law describes how electric current through one 
of these creates a magnetic field. For 10 points, name these devices which have a namesake property 
symbolized L and measured in Henries. 
ANSWER:  
inductor 
s 
028-10-14-06119 
20. While serving in this government post, Frank Kellogg sponsored a namesake pact with French foreign 
minister Aristide Briand (ah-riss-TEED bri-AND). Cyrus Vance opposed a rescue attempt of American 
hostages while serving in this post. Cordell Hull promoted the Good Neighbor Policy while serving in this 
post. Dean Rusk defended the Vietnam War while serving in this capacity. William Seward served in this 
post under Abraham Lincoln. Thomas Jefferson was the first to hold this post. For 10 points, name this 
government post held by Madeleine Albright and Colin Powell. 
ANSWER: United States  
Secretary of State 
025-10-14-06120 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  4 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 6 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. This ruler constructed his capital at Pasargadae and won the Battle of Opis in his campaigns against 
Nabonidus, a ruler of the Chaldean dynasty. After the Battle of Thymbra, this man defeated the Lydian 
Empire and took Croesus captive. This ruler also ended the Babylonian Captivity of the Jews, and this father 
of Cambyses II ended the earlier Median Empire to create an empire which would later be ruled from 
Persepolis. For 10 points, name this first ruler of Achaemenid (uh-KAI-mun-ihd) Persia. 
ANSWER:  
Cyrus the Great 
 [or  
Cyrus the Elder 
 or  
Cyrus II 
] 
036-10-14-06121 
2. In one work, this man wrote \"Concerning Danger from Foreign Force and Influence.\" French outrage over 
one of this man's actions largely led to the Quasi-War. That action by this man consisted of negotiating a 
treaty with Lord Grenville. This man wrote five of the Federalist Papers. This man's namesake 1794 treaty 
opened favorable relations with Great Britain. In another role, this man heard the case  
Chisolm v. Georgia 
. 
For 10 points, name this first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. 
ANSWER: John  
Jay 
028-10-14-06122 
3. A man named Elijah asks this novel's protagonist if he has sold his soul to the devil to work for \"Old 
Thunder.\" Characters in this novel include a Zoroastrian with a turban made from his own beard, a man 
named Fedallah. Two Quakers in this novel are named Peleg and Bildad. One character in this work nails a 
gold piece to the mast and throws his pipe overboard the  
Pequod 
 and is eventually killed by the title 
creature. This novel begins, \"Call me Ishmael.\" For 10 points, name this novel about Captain Ahab's 
obsession with a white whale, written by Herman Melville. 
ANSWER:  
Moby-Dick ; or, The Whale 
024-10-14-06123 
4. The speaker of this poem asks if the corpse Stetson has planted in a garden has begun to sprout, in a 
section of this poem set on London Bridge in the \"Unreal City.\" Another section of this poem describes 
Tiresias as an \"old man with wrinkled dugs.\" That section, \"The Fire Sermon,\" precedes a short section of 
this poem entitled \"Death by Water.\" Its final section, \"What the Thunder Said,\" ends with a repetition of the 
Sanskrit word \"shantih.\" For 10 points, name this poem which begins \"April is the cruellest month,\" written 
by T.S. Eliot. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Waste Land 
\" 
024-10-14-06124 
5. This country was the location of the prison S-21, the site of over 15,000 executions, and Hun Sen was 
elected prime minister here in 1985. In this nation, the government of Lon Nol was overthrown in 1975, and 
this country invaded by Vietnam in 1979. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian nation that was the scene 
of the \"Killing Fields\" under the brutal dictatorship of the Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot. 
ANSWER:  
Cambodia 
030-10-14-06125 
6. After scolding this figure for marrying an Ethiopian, this figure's sister was stricken with leprosy for seven 
days. This man flung a tree into the water at Marah to make it sweet, and this man's arms were held up by 
Hur and this man's brother to help his people defeat the Amalekites. This man married a daughter of Jethro 
of Midian, Zipporah, and trashed the golden calf idol created by his brother, Aaron. For 10 points, name this 
man who led the Israelites out of Egypt and received the Ten Commandments from God. 
ANSWER:  
Moses 
 [or  
Moshe 
; or  
Musa 
] 
005-10-14-06126 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  5 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. A series of poems about these pieces discuss its representation of Zephyr and Boreas fighting while a 
Shepherd weeps. One part of this work sees a violin represent a shepherd while a viola represents a 
sheepdog. This collection is part of a larger work that was dedicated to Wenzel von Morzin called  
The 
Contest Between Harmony and Invention 
. It is made up of four violin concertos. For 10 points, name this 
series including \"La Primavera\" and \"L'autunno,\" composed by Antonio Vivaldi about different times of the 
year like Winter and Summer. 
ANSWER:  
The  Four Seasons 
 [or  
Le  Quattro Stagioni 
; accept  
The  Contest Between Harmony and 
Invention 
 or  
Il  Cimento dell'Armonia e dell'inventione 
 before \"larger work\"] 
026-10-14-06127 
8. His poems include \"Bad Roads in Spring,\" which recounts his abduction by partisans, and he wrote 
\"nothing can avert the final curtain's fall\" in his poem \"Hamlet.\" This character was held captive by the 
cocaine-addicted Liberius and the Forest Brotherhood. At the end of the work in which he appears, this 
character's brother Evgraf agrees to take care of this character's daughter Tania. For 10 points, name this 
lover of Lara and a physician, a character created by Boris Pasternak. 
ANSWER: Dr. Yuri  
Zhivago 
 [accept Boris  
Pasternak 
 before \"This character.\"] 
030-10-14-06128 
9. He introduced the Minimalist Program, a variant of the Principles and Parameters model which he 
formulated earlier. With Morris Halle, a fellow MIT faculty member, he wrote  
The Sound Pattern of English 
. The sentence \"Colorless green ideas sleep furiously\" appears in his book  
Syntactic Structures 
, which set out 
his theory of transformational grammar. For 10 points, name this champion of Universal Grammar and 
anarchism, an American linguist. 
ANSWER: Noam  
Chomsky 
024-10-14-06129 
10. A precursor to this proclamation was the Colloquy at Poissy, which was sponsored by Michel de 
l'Hopital. The Peace of Vervins, signed only a few weeks later, achieved what this decree could not by 
ending a series of wars which lasted almost forty years. Pope Clement VII opposed this proclamation. This 
decree established 150 places of refuge, as well as the stronghold of Rochelle. Revoked by Louis XIV 
through the Edict of Fontainebleau, for 10 points, name this 1598 proclamation by Henry IV that guaranteed 
religious freedoms for Huguenots in France. 
ANSWER: Edict of  
Nantes 
035-10-14-06130 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  6 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
1. They originated at the Club Breton at Versailles, and they got their name due to their meeting place in a 
former Dominican convent. 
[5] Name this radical party of the French Revolution that included the Montagnards (mon-ta-NYARS). 
ANSWER:  
Jacobins 
 [or  
Society of the Friends of the Constitution 
; or  
Societe des Amis de la 
Constitution 
] 
[10] This French nobleman lost popularity when his guards shot demonstrators at the Champ de Mars 
(SHAMP duh MARS) in 1791, and he also helped overthrow Charles X. This Frenchman also played a role 
in the American Revolution. 
ANSWER: Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de  
Lafayette 
[15] This moderate opposition party to the Jacobins had many members from a namesake state in France, 
and this group was led by Jacques-Pierre Brissot (bree-SOH). 
ANSWER:  
Girondins 
 [or  
Girondists 
] 
[20] Among the victims of the Jacobin \"Reign of Terror\" was this feminist, who responded to the 
Revolution's \"Declaration of the Rights of Man\" by writing the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman.\" 
ANSWER: Olympe  
de Gouges 
030-10-14-06101 
2. Along with the fourth power of charge, this property appears in the numerator of the formula for the 
Rydberg (RID-burg) constant. 
[5] What is this property, which, for a mole of carbon-12, has a value of twelve grams? 
ANSWER:  
mass 
[10] The mass defect, or missing mass between the value of a nucleus's constituents and the assembled 
nucleus, is due to conversion of mass into this energy needed to assemble or break apart a nucleus. 
ANSWER:  
binding 
 energy 
[15] Often measured in Giga-electron-volts, this specific form of mass is used to denote the mass of a 
particle undergoing no relativistic effects which may change its mass. 
ANSWER:  
rest 
 mass 
[20] The most tightly bound nucleus is found in the 62 isotope of this element, which is an end product in 
supernova burning and other related nuclear processes in the universe. 
ANSWER:  
nickel 
003-10-14-06102 
3. This poem describes how \"slimy things did crawl with legs upon the slimy sea.\" 
[5] Name this poem, whose title character relates a tale about an albatross to a wedding guest. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Rime of the Ancient Mariner 
\" 
[10] This author of \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\" and \"Kubla Khan\" described his \"pensive Sara!\" in 
his poem \"The Aeolian Harp.\" 
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor  
Coleridge 
[15] Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth collaborated on this poetry collection, which 
includes \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\" and \"Tintern Abbey.\" 
ANSWER:  
Lyrical Ballads , with a Few Other Poems 
[20] This set of Wordsworth poems, including \"Strange Fits of Passion Have I Known\" and \"She Dwelt 
Among the Untrodden Ways,\" is named for their common female subject, who may be based on 
Wordsworth's sister Dorothy. 
ANSWER: the  
Lucy 
 poems 
033-10-14-06103 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  7 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. This poem describes the title entity as \"Bragging and laughing that under his wrist, is the pulse.\" 
[5] Name this poem that calls the title city \"Hog Butcher, Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat, Player with 
Railroads, and Freight Handler to the Nation.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Chicago 
\" 
[10] This author of the  
Rootabaga Stories 
 wrote \"Chicago.\" He also wrote a poem called \"Fog,\" which he 
claims comes on \"little cat feet.\" 
ANSWER: Carl  
Sandburg 
[15] Carl Sandburg wrote a biography of this American, subtitled \"The War Years.\" He is also the subject of 
another author's poem \"When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed.\" 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Lincoln 
[20] Name the author of \"General William Booth Enters Into Heaven\" who described Lincoln pacing back 
and forth in front of the Springfield courthouse in \"Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight.\" 
ANSWER: Vachel  
Lindsay 
033-10-14-06104 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  8 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 6 
Four 10-Part Team Rounds 
BEES 
BUTTERFLIES 
SPIDERS 
ANTS 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  9 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
BEES 
[10] A bloodless territorial dispute called the Honey War was fought over the northern border of this state, 
the home of Thomas Hart Benton. 
ANSWER:  
Missouri 
[10] The Bees of Childeric inspired the Fleur de Lis of this French emperor who lost the Battle of Waterloo. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon Bonaparte 
 [or  
Napoleon I 
; prompt on  
Napoleon 
; prompt on  
Bonaparte 
] 
[10] This \"Poet of the American Revolution\" wrote poems like \"The Indian Burying Ground\" and \"The Wild 
Honey-Bee.\" 
ANSWER: Philip  
Freneau 
[10] This John Keats poem includes \"later flowers for the bees\" and is dedicated to a \"season of mists and 
mellow fruitfulness.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
To Autumn 
\" 
[10] Honey bees do a \"waggle\" form of this action to communicate with one another. 
ANSWER:  
dancing 
 [accept word forms or reasonable equivalents] 
[10] \"Colony collapse disorder\" among bees may be caused by the \"Israel acute paralysis\" kind of this type 
of infectious agent, the first-discovered of which was the tobacco mosaic one. 
ANSWER:  
virus 
es [or  
virii 
] 
[10] Odysseus's men shoved beeswax in their ears to escape the fateful songs of these mythical beings who 
lured sailors to their deaths. 
ANSWER:  
siren 
s 
[10] Bernard Mandeville's  
Fable of the Bees 
 was a foundational text in this field of social science, whose 
other notable thinkers included Wassily Leontief and David Ricardo. 
ANSWER:  
economics 
[10] The Angels' triple-A affiliate, called the \"Bees,\" is based in this city, which is also home to the NBA's 
EnergySolutions Arena. 
ANSWER:  
Salt Lake 
 City 
[10] This sculptor of the  
Fountain of the Bees 
 also sculpted  
The Ecstasy of Saint Teresa 
. 
ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo  
Bernini 
026-10-14-0610-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  10 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
BUTTERFLIES 
[10] This author of  
Lolita 
 and  
Pale Fire 
 liked collecting butterflies. 
ANSWER: Vladimir  
Nabokov 
[10] This ancient Chinese philosophy is associated with Zhuangzi and Lao Tzu, the latter of which dreamed 
he was a butterfly and did not know if it was the butterfly who dreamed him or he dreamed the butterfly. 
ANSWER:  
Taoism 
 [or  
Daoism 
] 
[10] The butterfly effect can be seen in this branch of mathematics that studies systems where small changes 
can have large effects. 
ANSWER:  
chaos 
 theory 
[10] The butterfly effect can literally be seen in  
A Sound of Thunder 
, a work by this author of  
Fahrenheit 
451 
. 
ANSWER: Ray Douglas  
Bradbury 
[10] Butterfly diagrams can be used to study the patterns of occurrence of these reduced temperature areas of 
the sun. 
ANSWER:  
sun spots 
[10] This artist signed some of his paintings with a butterfly. He is known for  
Arrangement in Gray and 
Black: Portrait of the Artist's Mother 
. 
ANSWER: James Abbott McNeill  
Whistler 
[10] This is the only U.S. state where the Dark Kite-Swallowtail can be found. It was the location of the 
Battle of San Jacinto. 
ANSWER:  
Texas 
[10] \"Love Is Like a Butterfly\" is a song by this singer who has a namesake amusement park in Pigeon 
Forge, Tennessee. 
ANSWER: Dolly  
Parton 
[10] This word beginning with c is the pupal stage of a butterfly. 
ANSWER:  
chrysalis 
[10] This poet made a cardboard butterfly. He is better known for \"\"Song of Myself\" found in  
Leaves of 
Grass 
. 
ANSWER: Walt  
Whitman 
001-10-14-0610-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  11 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
SPIDERS 
[10] This weaver from Greek mythology challenged Athena and was turned into a spider. 
ANSWER:  
Arachne 
[10] This French king, the son of Charles VII, was known as the spider king and helped strengthen and unify 
France. 
ANSWER:  
Louis XI 
 [prompt on  
Louis 
] 
[10]  
The Path to the Nest of Spiders 
 is by this Italian author of  
If on a winter night a traveler 
 and  
Invisible 
Cities 
. 
ANSWER: Italo  
Calvino 
[10] This intermolecular force is partially responsible for the strength of spider silk via the formation of beta 
sheets. It is also responsible for many of the properties of water. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen bond 
s 
[10] One possibly apocryphal story about this man said that the seventh attempt of a spider to spin a web 
gave him hope. This king of the Scots won independence from England. 
ANSWER:  
Robert 
 I [or  
Robert 
 the Bruce] 
[10] Spiders and insects are found in this phylum. 
ANSWER:  
arthropoda 
 [or  
arthropods 
] 
[10]  
The Kiss of the Spider Woman 
 is a novel by Manuel Puig, an author from this country also home to 
Borges. 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
[10]  
Spider 
 is a mobile by this American artist of  
Lobster Trap and Fish Tail  
. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Calder 
[10] This thinker in his  
Novum Organum 
 used a metaphor of ants, spiders, and bees to distinguish different 
intellectuals' ways of thinking. 
ANSWER:  
Francis Bacon 
[10] In this television franchise, a race called the replicators consists of mechanical spiders made out of 
computerized blocks. 
ANSWER:  
Stargate 
 [or  
Stargate SG-1 
] 
001-10-14-0610-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  12 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
ANTS 
[10] These brave warriors were commanded by Achilles, and sprung up from ants after a terrible plague 
killed off the subjects of King Aeacus of Aegina. 
ANSWER: the  
Myrmidon 
s 
[10] This simplest carboxylic acid, also known as methanoic acid, was first isolated from distilling a colony 
of ants. 
ANSWER:  
formic 
 acid 
[10] Ants have this form of highly regimented social structure in which generations overlap, the young are 
cared for cooperatively, and reproductive responsibilities are divided. 
ANSWER:  
eusocial 
 [or  
eusociality 
; prompt on  
kin selection 
; prompt on  
altruism 
] 
[10] \"The Grasshopper and the Ant\" and \"The Fox and the Grapes\" are two of the fables attributed to this 
Greek. 
ANSWER:  
Aesop 
[10] This author told of Babe Gladwaller being bitten by an ant in a German foxhole in his short story \"A 
Boy in France,\" and also wrote the  
Nine Stories 
 and told of the Glass family in  
Franny and Zooey 
. 
ANSWER: Jerome David  
Salinger 
[10] A fight between red and black ants is one of the observations made by Henry David Thoreau in this 
book, written in a cabin in the Massachusetts wilderness. 
ANSWER:  
Walden 
[10] This director collaborated with Salvador Dali on a film that shows a severed head swarmed with ants 
and an eyeball being sliced by a razor,  
Un Chien Andalou 
. 
ANSWER: Luis  
Buñuel 
 Portoles 
[10] British Prime Minister Anthony Eden presided during a \"crisis\" involving this Egyptian waterway. 
ANSWER: the  
Suez 
 canal 
[10] This \"Mad\" American general defeated Blue Jacket and Little Turtle and won the battle of Fallen 
Timbers. 
ANSWER: \"Mad\" Anthony  
Wayne 
[10] This punk band contributed \"Bug Bytes\" to the  
Spiderman 
 soundtrack, and is probably best-known for 
their cover of Michael Jackson's \"Smooth Criminal.\" 
ANSWER:  
Alien Ant Farm 
026-10-14-0610-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  13 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 6 
12 20-Point Tossups 
1. This technique's strong form allows for the formula in question to work for not only for some n equal to k, 
but n less than k. This tool works by first proving a base case, then showing that if a formula works for some 
number n, then it works for \"n+1.\" It is very similar to recursion. This mathematical proof technique shares 
its name with a type of logic moving from cases to a general conclusion. For 20 points, name this proof 
technique. 
ANSWER:  
induction 
 or  
inductive 
033-10-14-06101 
2. This treaty provided for one side to settle more than three million dollars in debts. After the initial failure 
of the Wilmot Proviso, the Senate also voted down an attempt to attach that Proviso to this treaty. Nicholas 
Trist was the chief negotiator of this treaty. This treaty included the American government paying fifteen 
million dollars for a land transfer. This treaty established a boundary at the Rio Grande river. Through this 
treaty, America gained control of California. For 20 points, name this treaty that ended the 
Mexican-American War. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Guadalupe Hidalgo 
028-10-14-06102 
3. The protagonist of this play is annoyed to see the anemic Bernard succeed with the help of Charley. One 
character in this play stops attending a summer remedial math class after discovering his father having an 
affair in Boston. Another character in this play has visions of his brother Ben returning from the jungle and 
discovering diamonds. For 20 points, what play ends with the title character stepping in front of a car to 
enable his wife Linda to collect insurance money? 
ANSWER:  
Death of a Salesman 
004-10-14-06103 
4. A piano opens with a tone row in octaves in this composer's Violin Sonata. This composer set 
Yevtushenko's poetry to the five movements of his Thirteenth Symphony, which commemorates the 
massacre of the Jews at Babi Yar. Critics accused this composer of making his ninth symphony too 
light-hearted. A march-like ostinato forms the invasion theme of this composer's seventh symphony, written 
around the Nazi attack of Russia. For 20 points, name this Soviet composer who feuded with Stalin and 
wrote the Leningrad Symphony. 
ANSWER: Dmitri Dmitriyevich  
Shostakovich 
036-10-14-06104 
5. The central character of this novel is first influenced by the wandering Samanas. Later in this novel, that 
character is influenced by the merchant Kamaswami and the courtesan Kamala. The protagonist of this novel 
eventually accomplishes inner peace by listening to the sound of a river and hearing the word \"Om.\" During 
this novel, Govinda becomes a disciple of Gotama, the Buddha. For 20 points, name this novel by Hermann 
Hesse. 
ANSWER:  
Siddhartha 
020-10-14-06105 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  14 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. This country's Porkkala (pohr-KAH-lah) base was returned in 1955, and Risto Ryti (RIH-sto RYE-tee) 
formed a coalition government in this nation following an invasion. General K.M. Wallenius 
(vah-LAYN-ee-us) led a fascist movement in this nation. Kaarlo Stahlberg was its first president. This 
country faced a civil war between Red and White factions in 1918, and the Mannerheim Line was a 
fortification against this nation's eastern neighbor. For 20 points, name this country that fought the Winter 
War against the Soviet Union. 
ANSWER:  
Finland 
030-10-14-06106 
7. This man's \"The Last Instructions to a Painter\" is a verse satire on the Dutch War, and he wrote extended 
conceits in such lyric poems as \"A Dialogue between Body and Soul.\" Another poem by this author 
imagines finding rubies by the Ganges, and claims that the speaker's \"vegetable love\" will grow \"vaster than 
empires, and more slow.\" That poem by this author states that \"I always hear time's winged chariot drawing 
near\" in urging a woman to consummate her love. For 20 points, which metaphysical poet wished for \"world 
enough and time\" in his poem \"To His Coy Mistress?\" 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Marvell 
045-10-14-06107 
8. This figure is depicted with the Damaru drum when represented as Nataraja, the Lord of Dance. When the 
serpent Vasuki polluted the world during the churning of the ocean, this deity drank up its poison, which 
turned his throat blue. The consort of this god has several forms, such as the lion-riding Durga and the 
mountain goddess Parvati. His third eye burns own the world when it is opened. For 10 points, name this 
member of the Hindu Trimurti. 
ANSWER:  
Shiva 
034-10-14-06108 
9. This man proposed the “Epigenetic principle” that dictates our development through resolving crises such 
as learning to trust or mistrust as an infant. One of this man’s works analyzes how a man was able to grow 
enough to be comfortable starting the Reformation. Another of his psychohistories analyzes “The origins of 
Militant Nonviolence” by studying an Indian pacifist. This author of  
Young Man Luther 
 and  
Gandhi’s Truth 
created the eight stages of psychosocial development. For 20 points, name this psychologist who coined the 
term “identity crisis.” 
ANSWER: Erik Homburger  
Erikson 
027-10-14-06109 
10. The splitting of sets of one type of these objects is the subject of ligand field theory, and that type being 
partially filled defines the properties of the transition metals. The linear combination of these entities can 
generate molecular ones. By the Pauli Exclusion Principle, these entities can contain at most two electrons. 
For 20 points, name these mathematical descriptions of the location of electrons in an atom. 
ANSWER:  
atomic orbital 
 [prompt on  
orbital 
; do not accept or prompt on \"molecular orbital\"] 
022-10-14-06110 
11. This island's Baliem Valley is home to the Dani people. The Bismarck Range in the eastern part of this 
island contains Mount Wilhelm. Lorentz National Park, which can be found on this island, contains the 
Asmat Swamp. This island's Puncak Jaya is the highest island peak in the world. Port Moresby is the capital 
of a nation found entirely on this island; the western part of this island is the province of Irian Jaya. For 20 
points, name this second largest island in the world, which is split between Indonesia and an independent 
country. 
ANSWER:  
New Guinea 
 [do not accept \"Papua New Guinea\"] 
036-10-14-06111 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  15 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. When \"pellucidum\" (puh-LOO-si-dum) is appended to this word, it describes a brain structure that runs 
from the corpus callosum (KOR-pus kuh-LOSS-um) to the fornix. A defect of another structure with this 
name allows blood to pass from the left to right atrium. Another structure with this name can potentially 
deviate enough to cause abnormal breathing. For 20 points, give this term whose plural refers to the cross 
walls in fungi. 
ANSWER:  
septum 
 [or  
septa 
] 
003-10-14-06112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  16 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 6 
Tiebreakers 
1. Peter Shor developed an algorithm that does activity, which would nullify RSA's usefulness; that 
algorithm performs in polynomial time. The Gauss-Jordan method can be used in part to perform the \"LU\" 
type of this. For 10 points, name this activity that can be done on a polynomial with a perfect square 
discriminant, which for the number 49 would produce 7 and 7. 
ANSWER:  
factorization 
 (accept word forms) 
033-10-14-06131 
2. This ruler's minister Count Wenzel Anton von Kaunitz helped conduct the Diplomatic Revolution, which 
led to this leader becoming allied to France's Louis XV. That alliance came after this ruler lost a war in 
which the Battle of Mollwitz was fought and Silesia was ceded to Prussia, the War of the Austrian 
Succession. That war centered on this ruler's succeeding Charles VI to the throne. For 10 points, name this 
woman who fought two wars against Frederick the Great, the empress of Austria whose rule was guaranteed 
by the Pragmatic Sanction. 
ANSWER:  
Maria Theresa 
 of Austria 
023-10-14-06132 
3. Debussy wrote three pieces of this form titled \"Clouds,\" \"Festivals,\" and \"Sirens\" for orchestra and female 
choir. Chopin uses a rounded binary form to gradually embellish on two simple themes in his Opus 9 No. 2, 
a piece in E-flat written in this form. Pieces of this popular Romantic Era form convey atmosphere rather 
than developing themes, and this form of music was first developed by John Field. For 10 points, name this 
form of music that creates a mood of night. 
ANSWER:  
Nocturne 
036-10-14-06133 
Colonia Tournament     Round 6     Page  17 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
