NASAT 2012 
Round 13 
Tossups 
1. This composer slid paper between piano strings to give the instrument a more mechanical sound for  
The 
Sting of the Jellyfish 
 in what is perhaps the first formal use of a prepared piano. He composed  
Danses 
gothiques 
 as a novena for \"the greatest calm and tranquility of [his] soul\" while having an affair with 
Suzanne Valadon. He created  
Le Picadilly 
 and  
Je te veux 
 while working as a cabaret pianist. This first 
modern composer to use barless notation helped form Nouveaux Jeunes, the forerunners of Les Six. In 
addition to composing 7 Gnossienes, he named another set of compositions after an ancient Greek dance. 
For 10 points, name this French composer of 3 Gymnopédies. 
ANSWER: Erik  
Satie 
066-12-59-13102 
2. This document ridicules one man's plan to catch another off-guard by awakening him with a sudden flash 
of light from a lantern, and compares the actions taken by that man, Armand du Platy de Clam, to \"some 
fifteenth century chronicle\" based around \"that idiot  
bordereau 
.\" Citing the work of Auguste 
Scheurer-Kestner and George Picquart, this document argues the real author of the  
bordereau 
 is Ferdinand 
Esterhazy, who was acquitted two days before this document's publication. First appearing in Clemenceau's 
newspaper  
L'Aurore 
, this document led to its author being charged with libel for attacking the French War 
Office. For 10 points, name this open letter written by Émile Zola defending Alfred Dreyfus. 
ANSWER:  
J'accuse 
 Letter [or  
I Accuse 
; accept answers such as  
Zola's open letter defending Dreyfus 
before mentioned] 
121-12-59-13103 
3. One of these constructs defined on the reals is used to generate a probability distribution of a random 
variable defined on a probability space. Two of these constructs are known as the \"discrete\" and \"trivial\" 
varieties; those constructs refer to collections of sets over which measures are defined and are denoted by 
the letter sigma. This word also refers to numbers that are roots of non-zero polynomials with rational 
coefficients and are thus the counterpart to transcendental numbers. Every non-constant single-variable 
polynomial with complex coefficients has at least one complex root according to the fundamental theorem 
of this discipline. For 10 points, name this discipline, the manipulation and solving of variables. 
ANSWER:  
algebra 
020-12-59-13104 
4. There are two Senate elections on this state's 2012 ballot, with the same candidates running in each. That 
Senate race features a rematch of a 2010 election in which the Republican candidate argued that the country 
needed to put \"a thousand lasers\" in the sky and issued a casting call for Philadelphia actors that \"look 
hicky.\" In this state's Democratic presidential primary, Keith Judd won 42% of the vote despite living in a 
Texarkana, Texas jail. This state's dissatisfaction with Barack Obama has led Democratic Governor Earl 
Ray Tomblin and Senator Joe Manchin to distance themselves from the President. For 10 points, name this 
state whose 2012 Senate election oddity is a result of a 2010 Special Election following the death of Robert 
Byrd. 
ANSWER:  
West Virginia 
003-12-59-13105 
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  1 of 11 
5. This region’s Yarlung River forms a “Grand Canyon,” the deepest in the world. This region is where the 
practice of blessing land with “prayer flags” originated. Lakes Siling and Namu are found in this region’s 
northern Changtang area. Its traditions include ritually incising a corpse and leaving it to be eaten by 
vultures in a “sky burial.” An animist religion called Bon is native to this region. The capital of this region 
contains Jokhang Temple, built by Songtsen Gampo, and Potala Palace. It is located southwest of Qinghai 
and directly south of Xinjiang. For 10 points, name this Himalayan region with a capital at Lhasa, 
controversially taken over in 1951 by China. 
ANSWER:  
Tibet 
 [or  
Xizang 
] 
080-12-59-13106 
6. One character created by this man mysteriously replies, \"Do I not?\" when asked if he understands the 
shouting of a group of natives. In one work by this man, a Dutch trader moves into an abandoned house and 
begins an opium addiction after his daughter Nina marries a native of the East Indies. In another work by 
this author of  
Almayer's Folly, 
 a man in love with the revolutionary Antonia is assigned to guard a hoard of 
silver until he kills himself, forcing the title character to take over. This author also wrote a novel in which 
the butterfly collector Mr. Stein finds a post for the title character on Patusan, where he befriends Dain 
Waris. For 10 points, name this author of  
Nostromo 
 and  
Lord Jim 
, whose recurring character Marlow also 
narrates  
Heart of Darkness. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Conrad 
 [or Jozef Teodor Konrad  
Korzeniowski 
] 
105-12-59-13107 
7. After the fall of Troy, one man with this ability married Andromache and ruled a \"little Troy\" in Epirus. 
Helenus obtained this power through the instruction of his sister. The first humans to possess this ability 
owed their power to Themis. Two men named Mopsus possessed this ability, as did Manto. This is also the 
ability of a woman raped by Ajax the Lesser in Athena's temple who became the concubine of 
Agamemnon. Apollo gave this ability to a woman he loved, but later cursed her when she refused him. For 
10 points, name this ability possessed by individuals like the Cumaean Sibyl, Cassandra, and Tiresias. 
ANSWER:  
prophecy 
 [or  
telling the future 
; or  
seeing the future 
] 
080-12-59-13108 
8. Members of this group replaced fallen family members by adopting captives taken in Mourning Wars. 
Some members of this group killed the Jesuit priests Jean de Lalande and Isaac Jogues, who became two of 
the eight North American Catholic martyrs. Those priests were killed during a larger conflict with this 
group against the French and Huron known as the Beaver Wars. This group sold land in the Shenandoah 
Valley to Governor Gooch of Virginia and later sided with the British during the French and Indian War. 
For 10 points, name this group consisting of the Onondaga, Oneida, Mohawk, Cayuga, and Seneca nations. 
ANSWER:  
Iroquois 
 League [or  
Iroquois 
 Confederacy] 
105-12-59-13109 
9. In one industrial process that uses this technique, calcium chloride is added to rock salt to decrease its 
melting point. Aqueous chlorine gas cannot be produced by this process because oxygen is preferentially 
oxidized. This process is governed by a law stating that the amount of product is proportional to the amount 
of electrons supplied. This technique is used in the Downs process to make sodium, and in plating 
chromium metal surfaces. For 10 points, name this process governed by Faraday’s law, in which a redox 
reaction separates pure compounds from an ionic substance and drives a reaction that would normally not 
be spontaneous. 
ANSWER:  
electrolysis 
 [prompt on  
electrochemical reaction 
 or similar answers] 
132-12-59-13110 
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  2 of 11 
10. One Edna St. Vincent Millay poem begins with the speaker claiming that \"I know I am but summer to\" 
one of these objects. In William Butler Yeats's poem \"The Circus Animals' Desertion,\" the speaker claims 
that he must lie down in \"the foul rag and bone shop of\" this object. The speaker of one poem by e. e. 
cummings \"fear[s] no fate\" and \"want[s] no world\" because he carries this object with him. In one of his  
Holy Sonnets, 
 John Donne asks a three-personed God to batter this object. For 10 points, identify this 
organ, a \"Tell-Tale\" one of which thumps under the floorboards in a short story by Edgar Allan Poe. 
ANSWER: the  
heart 
 [or any pronoun followed by  
heart 
, e.g. accept \"my  
heart 
\" or \"your  
heart 
\"] 
126-12-59-13111 
11. In one scene from this film, a character gets out of a black car to urinate in \"amber waves of grain\" with 
the Statue of Liberty in the background. Another character puts an orange peel in his mouth to chase his 
grandson around a tomato patch before dropping dead. This film climaxes with a sequence that intersperses 
footage of the protagonist swearing to renounce Satan during a baptism with shots of his enemies being 
assassinated. Other famous incidents from this film include the delivery of Luca Brasi's vest with a fish 
inside it and a studio director waking up next to his horse's bleeding head. For 10 points, name this Francis 
Ford Coppola film about the Corleone mafia family. 
ANSWER:  
The  Godfather 
 [do not accept \" 
The Godfather: Part 2 
\" or \" 
The Godfather: Part 3 
\"] 
080-12-59-13112 
12. After first leaving the city where it was constructed, this ship collided with the  
Atlantik 
 without 
damage. During its first fighting action, this ship sank the  
Hood 
 and exchanged fire with the  
Prince of 
Wales 
. Days later, Fairley Swordfish from the  
Ark Royal 
 were responsible for destroying this ship's steering 
gear, and the  
King George V 
 and  
Rodney 
 incapacitated this ship. This ship was finally sunk by the  
Dorsetshire 
, and only 110 men from its crew survived. Taking part in the Battle of the Denmark Strait and 
commanded by Günther Lütjens, for 10 points, name this short-lived pride of the German Navy during 
World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Bismarck 
141-12-59-13113 
13. This quantity’s tangential component is continuous across the surface of a dielectric. One method for 
finding this quantity depends on the uniqueness of solutions to Poisson’s equation; that technique is the 
method of images. The acceleration of a point charge introduces kinks into this quantity. Its gradient is not 
always zero, but it is crossed with a quantity that is, to form the Poynting vector. One law for calculating 
this quantity sets its flux proportional to the total enclosed charge. For 10 points, name this vector quantity 
equal to the force on a point charge divided by the charge, which can be calculated by Coulomb’s and 
Gauss’ laws. 
ANSWER:  
electric field 
 [or  -field] 
E 
132-12-59-13114 
14. One chapter of this book describes magazine articles about the Duke of Windsor and a “barbecue 
bonanza.” This book praises Margaret Mead for finding a “vision of the infinite variety of sexual patterns,” 
but ultimately concludes that Mead’s functionalism reinforced the title concept. In the fifth chapter, the 
author compares Sigmund Freud to Torvald Helmer. Its first paragraph poses the silent question, “Is this 
all?” This book was inspired by a survey the author conducted of former Smith College classmates. It 
begins by describing “the problem that has no name” and argues the title condition is created by magazines 
that depict only frustrated career women or happy homemakers. For 10 points, name this book by Betty 
Friedan. 
ANSWER:  
The  Feminine Mystique 
052-12-59-13115 
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  3 of 11 
15. In this play’s second act, one character will not let his wife take the horses into town because he is 
using them in the field. At the beginning of this play’s second act, the characters criticize Maupassant’s  
Bel 
Ami. 
 In this play’s final act, the characters play a card game called lotto and pass around a magazine. This 
play’s title character gives her lover a medallion engraved with the page and line number of the quotation 
“if you ever need my life, come and take it” from that lover’s book  
Days and Nights. 
 The poor 
schoolteacher Medvedenko loves Masha in this play set on Sorin’s estate, and an aspiring actress has an 
affair with Arkadina’s lover Trigorin. For 10 points, name this Chekhov play in which the struggling 
author Treplev shoots the title bird. 
ANSWER:  
The  Seagull 
 [or  
Chayka 
] 
079-12-59-13116 
16. Conditions that must accompany this practice, including \"sincerity,\" \"love,\" and \"truthfulness,\" are 
divided by adherents into seven to nine criteria. Criteria for this practice's validity also include submission 
to its requirements and perfect knowledge of carrying it out. Without those conditions, this practice, which 
is promoted by the flag of Saudi Arabia, is considered meaningless and cannot be used for conversion. The 
first part of this practice is called tawhid, and Shiites add the phrase \"and Ali is his vice-regent\" to the 
words of this practice. For 10 points, name this pillar of Islam, a declaration often translated, \"there is no 
God but Allah, and Muhammad is his prophet.\" 
ANSWER:  
shahada 
 [prompt on  
confession of faith 
, etc.] 
105-12-59-13117 
17. This organism is the subject of the Illinois Long Term Selection Experiment, which has been running 
since 1896. One phenotype of this organism lead to the discovery of the Knotted1 homeobox gene. The 
evolution of the Tb1 gene is believed to have lead to many of this organism's distinguishing features. 
Observations of this organism's chromosomes lead to the discovery of breakage-fusion-bridge cycles. One 
phenotype in these organisms is explained by the presence of Ds and Ac units. This organism is derived 
from teosinte. The \"Controlling Units\" of this organism were the first discovered transposons. For 10 
points, name this grain studied by Barbara McClintock. 
ANSWER:  
corn 
 [or  
maize 
; or  
Zea mays 
; prompt on  
teosinte 
 before mentioned] 
001-12-59-13118 
18. This emperor was declared the New Serapis in Alexandria, where his spit cured a blind man and his 
heel cured an invalid. He had the Stoic thinker and Senator Helvidius Priscus executed, though he 
sponsored more favorable historians like Josephus. As this emperor died, he reportedly exclaimed, \"I think 
I am becoming a god.\" Before becoming emperor, this man took part in the invasion of Britain and 
captured the Isle of Wight. He constructed the Temple of Peace to celebrate his son's successful conquest of 
Jerusalem. After his forces defeated Vitellius, this man became emperor in 69 CE. For 10 points, name this 
founder of the Flavian Dynasty, who was succeeded by his sons Titus and Domitian. 
ANSWER: Caesar  
Vespasian 
us Augustus [or Titus Flavius  
Vespasian 
us; do not accept \"Titus\"] 
080-12-59-13119 
19. This painter parodied the classical story of Hercules picking between virtue and pleasure in his 
depiction of a famous actor looking at a blue robed woman. Another of this man's paintings shows a young 
child in the same outfit and pose as Henry VIII. He represented order being restored to a court-martialed 
navy officer by having Lord Keppel rest his hand upon a sword. This man painted two aristocratic men on a 
hunt, stringing their bows, in a painting subtitled \"The Archers.\" A horrific-looking woman holding a 
goblet stands on the left of an enthroned Welsh actress in his most famous painting. For 10 points, name 
this first president of the Royal Academy, a portraitist best known for  
Sarah Siddons as the Tragic Muse 
. 
ANSWER: Sir Joshua  
Reynolds 
020-12-59-13120 
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  4 of 11 
20. In one poem referring to this mythological couple, the speaker calls himself a “degenerate modern 
wretch” and jokingly refers to the myth as “a doubtful story” after testing the physical possibility of its 
premise. Another poem about this mythological couple concludes ambiguously by describing how “ugly 
Night…danged down to hell her loathsome carriage.” George Chapman added a second part to that poem 
about this couple, diverging from the comical erotic tone of the segment completed by Christopher 
Marlowe. For 10 points, name this mythological couple, one of whom swam across the Hellespont each 
night to visit the other. 
ANSWER:  
Hero 
 and  
Leander 
014-12-59-13121 
21. Hox B8 knockout mice were found to engage in this activity twice as often as their control littermates. 
In the mouse, ritualized steps in this activity were first discovered by Frances Stilwell and include 
\"parallel,\" \"circling,\" and \"shimmy\" movements. In lemurs and impala, this activity is accomplished with a 
\"dental comb,\" and in birds, it is known as \"preening.\" Human disorders of this activity, including 
trichotillomania (TRY-ko-TILL-oh-MAY-nee-ah), are often classified as part of the obsessive-compulsive 
spectrum. The \"allo\" form of this activity is a common social bonding device. For 10 points, name this 
behavior in which an animal gets parasites, dirt, and other unwanted things out of its or another's hair, fur, 
or skin. 
ANSWER:  
groom 
ing [or auto 
groom 
ing; or allo 
groom 
ing; or social  
groom 
ing; prompt on  
preen 
ing before 
it is read; prompt on answers that reasonably describe grooming] 
003-12-59-13122 
22. One member of this man's administration formulated this president's policy of \"constructive 
engagement\" towards South Africa; that man was Chester Crocker. This President controversially met with 
Jonas Savimbi and pledged US support for UNITA. During this man's administration, Fawn Hall was used 
as a witness during a trial held due to a Robert McFarlane-initiated plan that side-stepped the Boland 
Amendment. That plan, supported by this President, initially sold arms to Iranians, but then provided 
money to forces that fought against the Daniel Ortega-led Sandinista government in Nicaragua. For 10 
points, the Iran-Contra affair occurred during what Republican president's second term? 
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson  
Reagan 
149-12-59-13123 
23. The protagonist of this work publicly humiliates her husband by remarking that when he pulls down his 
britches, he looks like \"the change of life.\" In this novel, the protagonist grows jealous of Nunkie and fears 
that her husband will be like Who Flung, who stole Annie Taylor’s money after they were married. In this 
work, the mayor of a certain town needs to feel like a “big voice.” This work’s protagonist is offered rice 
by the woman to whom she recounts her story after returning to Eatonville. Earlier, she shoots her lover in 
self-defense several weeks after he is bitten by a rabid dog. After the death of Jody Starks, the protagonist 
marries Tea Cake. For 10 points, Janie Crawford is the protagonist of what novel by Zora Neale Hurston? 
ANSWER:  
Their Eyes Were Watching God 
149-12-59-13124 
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2012 
Round 13 
Bonuses 
1. This work contains a description of its author’s theory of “bracketing” the external world. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this philosophical work that attacks psychologism in its first volume and considers syntactical 
and mereological meaning in its second volume. 
ANSWER:  
Logical Investigations 
 [or  
Logische Untersuchungen 
] 
[10] This author of  
Logical Investigations 
 also attracted criticism from Gottlob Frege for his 
psychologically-based  
Philosophy of Arithmetic. 
ANSWER: Edmund  
Husserl 
[10] Husserl is often credited with beginning this school of philosophy, which examines the experience of 
distinct events and types of consciousness subjectively. 
ANSWER:  
phenomenology 
127-12-59-13201  
2. This man composed the melodrama  
Children of the King 
 and was the chief copyist of the score for 
Wagner’s  
Parsifal 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German operatic composer of the  
Thorn-Rosie 
 and the Nativity opera  
Toddler’s Winter 
Dream 
.? 
ANSWER: Engelbert  
Humperdinck 
[10] Engelbert Humperdinck composed this opera with a libretto by his sister. Its title characters shove a 
witch into an oven, which turns her into gingerbread. 
ANSWER:  
Hansel and Gretel 
 [or  
Hansel und Gretel 
] 
[10] Humperdinck was an early user of this voice technique that Arnold Schoenberg used in  
Pierrot 
Lunaire 
. It is a cross between singing and speaking. 
ANSWER:  
Sprechstimme 
030-12-59-13202  
3. For 10 points each, name the following relating to waves. 
[10] This principle holds that when multiple waveforms try to exist in the same space at the same time, they 
will overlap and interfere. 
ANSWER:  
superposition 
[10] These are the two types of interference that can occur. In one case, the resultant amplitude is smaller 
than the component waves; in the other case, it is larger. 
ANSWER:  
destructive 
 and  
constructive 
 interference [both required] 
[10] A version of Young's double-slit experiment with a solenoid was used to show this effect, in which a 
beam of electrons experiences a phase shift in a region with no electric or magnetic field. 
ANSWER: Ehrenberg–Siday– 
Aharonov–Bohm 
 effect 
147-12-59-13203  
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  6 of 11 
4. One member of this family arranges a marriage between Paul Rayley and Minta Doyle while another 
snaps when Augustus Carmichael asks for a second bowl of soup at a dinner party. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this family that is chronicled for ten years in a novel in which they stay at their summer house in 
the Hebrides. 
ANSWER:  
Ramsay 
[10] The Ramsays appear in this novel by Virginia Woolf. 
ANSWER:  
To the Lighthouse 
[10] This character spends much of the novel trying to paint a portrait of Mrs. Ramsay, and is ridiculed by 
Charles Tansley, who claims that women cannot paint. 
ANSWER:  
Lily 
 Briscoe [or Lily  
Briscoe 
] 
064-12-59-13204  
5. During this conflict, a rival senate was established at Corfinium. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this war eventually ended after concessions were granted by Lucius Julius Caesar and the 
remaining belligerents defeated by commanders like Gnaeus Pompeius Strabo and Sulla. 
ANSWER:  
Social 
 War [or  
Italic 
 War; or  
Marsic 
 War; or War of the  
Allies 
] 
[10] Another Roman participant in the Social War was this rival of Sulla who helped reform Rome's 
military. 
ANSWER: Gaius  
Marius 
[10] The Social War was sparked by the murder of this \"Patron of the Senate,\" who proposed giving 
citizenship to Rome's allies. He tried to resolve a conflict between the Senate and the equestrians by 
elevating 300 knights to senatorial positions. 
ANSWER: Marcus Livius  
Drusus 
094-12-59-13205  
6. Charles Dickens wrote that one character in this painting looks like a hideous alcoholic who would 
“stand out from the rest of the company” in “the lowest gin-shop in England.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this oil canvas which depicts the title figure in a carpentry workshop, having cut his hand on a 
nail and being brought water by John the Baptist. It was extremely controversial for showing grimy 
conditions. 
ANSWER:  
Christ in the House of His Parents 
[10]  
Christ in the House of His Parents 
 was painted by John Everett Millais, a member of the 
Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. Millais also painted this female character from  
Hamlet 
, floating in a river. 
ANSWER:  
Ophelia 
[10] This other member of the Brotherhood painted  
The Scapegoat 
 and  
The Light of the World 
. 
ANSWER: William Holman  
Hunt 
052-12-59-13206  
7. For 10 points each, identify the following about genetic mutations in dogs. 
[10] A genetic mutation that affects most dalmatians leads to them excreting this compound, rather than 
allantoin, in their urine. It is also the primary nitrogenous waste product in birds. 
ANSWER:  
uric acid 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"urea\"] 
[10] The mutation that causes neuronal ceroidlipofuscinosis (SEA-roid-LIE-poe-FUSE-in-OH-sis) in 
Tibetan terriers causes a hereditary form of this disease in humans. This disorder affects the basal ganglia 
and leads to \"tics\" caused by low dopamine levels. 
ANSWER:  
Parkinson 
's disease 
[10] Many herding dogs have a mutation in this gene that codes for P-glycoprotein, a pump that prevents 
toxic buildup of acepromazine, loperamide, and other pharmaceutical products in the brain. 
ANSWER:  
MDR1 
 [or  
multi-drug resistance 1 
] 
003-12-59-13207  
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  7 of 11 
8. He wrote about a Young Republican lawyer who listens to punk rock in “Girl with Curious Hair.” For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this American author who wrote a novel that takes place in locations such as the Enfield Tennis 
Academy and the Ennet House Drug and Alcohol Recovery House. 
ANSWER: David Foster  
Wallace 
[10] Wallace's novel  
Infinite Jest 
 depicts this family, which includes members such as James Orin, a 
filmmaker who created the Entertainment, as well as Hal, who memorized the dictionary. 
ANSWER:  
Incandenza 
[10] Wallace wrote a notable review of  
Toward the End of Time, 
 a novel by this other American who 
created Harry Angstrom. 
ANSWER: John Hoyer  
Updike 
127-12-59-13208  
9. This politician's husband, John Zaccaro, was indicted on felony charges of bribery related to a cable 
television contract; he was later acquitted. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this former Representative for New York who was chosen to be Walter Mondale's VP nominee 
in 1984. She died in 2011. 
ANSWER: Geraldine Anne  
Ferraro 
[10] Ferraro ran for the Senate in 1998, but lost in the Democratic primary to this politician, the current 
senior Senator for New York. He was instrumental in Alberto Gonzales' resignation as Attorney General 
after firing eight U.S. Attorneys in 2006. 
ANSWER: Chuck  
Schumer 
 [or Charles Ellis  
Schumer 
] 
[10] Ferraro spent time as a host \"on the left\" on this CNN debate show, often appearing opposite John 
Sununu or Pat Buchanan. Shortly before it was canceled, Jon Stewart lambasted the show during an 
appearance as a guest. 
ANSWER:  
Crossfire 
088-12-59-13209  
10. Identify the following about winged cryptids, for 10 points each: 
[10] These mythological avians appear in Native American legends of the Western United States. They are 
named for their ability to influence the weather. 
ANSWER:  
Thunderbirds 
[10] The Mothman legend in West Virginia is sometimes linked to a 1967 disaster in this town in which 46 
people died when the Silver Bridge connecting this town to Gallipolis, Ohio collapsed. 
ANSWER:  
Point Pleasant 
[10] This winged, hoofed biped was reportedly seen by hundreds of people in 1909 and supposedly lives in 
its home state’s Pine Barrens. 
ANSWER: New  
Jersey 
 Devil 
030-12-59-13210  
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  8 of 11 
11. The first four of these pieces open with the right hand playing a melody alone, which the left hand then 
imitates an octave lower in the next measure. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this set of 15 Baroque pieces in eight major and seven minor keys. Sometimes paired with the 
composer's fifteen  
sinfonias 
, they are pedagogical pieces used to teach keyboard musicians to play in two 
parts. 
ANSWER: the Two-Part  
Inventions 
 [do not accept \"Three-Part Inventions\"] 
[10] The two-part inventions are one work by this Baroque master, also known for works like  
The Art of 
Fugue 
 and the  
Brandenburg Concertos 
. 
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian  
Bach 
[10] Some of the inventions consist of an exposition, development, and recapitulation, meaning that they 
make use of this overall structure. 
ANSWER:  
sonata 
 form 
080-12-59-13211  
12. This author coined the term “banana republic” in his collection  
Cabbages and Kings. 
 For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this American author who was noted for his clever twist endings in short stories like “The Gift 
of the Magi,” in which Jim and Della sell their prized possessions in order to buy each other Christmas 
presents. 
ANSWER: O.  
Henry 
 [or William Sydney  
Porter 
] 
[10] In this O. Henry story, Bill and Sam kidnap the son of a wealthy man, but the lad is actually a nasty 
brat who terrorizes his kidnappers, until they are willing to pay to give up the kid. 
ANSWER: “The  
Ransom of Red Chief 
” 
[10] In the O. Henry story “A Retrieved Reformation,” Jimmy Valentine is a former criminal who 
eventually gives up the profession. At the story's climax, he proves his good intentions by performing this 
action to save the niece of his fiancée, Annabel. 
ANSWER:  
breaking into a safe 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
052-12-59-13212  
13. These objects for a given number are the elements of a symmetric group. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these arrangements of symbols. The total number of these for a given number   is   factorial. 
n n 
ANSWER:  
permutation 
s [do not accept “combinations”] 
[10] The set of permutations can be treated as a group because function composition always has this 
property, a necessary criterion for a group binary operation. 
ANSWER:  
associativity 
 [or word forms; do not accept “commutativity”; do not accept “abelian”] 
[10] Symmetric groups have this property if and only if it has order less than or equal to two. Examples of 
this type of group include the integers over addition. 
ANSWER:  
commutativity 
 [or  
abelian 
; or word forms] 
121-12-59-13213  
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  9 of 11 
14. The title character of this novel discusses the Calas family and declares, “He that laughs last laughs 
best.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel whose narrator ventures into the Regency Café and strikes up a conversation with the 
relative of a composer. 
ANSWER:  
Rameau’s Nephew 
 [or  
Le  Neveu de Rameau 
] 
[10] This Frenchman wrote  
Rameau’s Nephew. 
 A valet declares that everything that happens is written on a 
“great scroll” in this man’s novel  
Jacques the Fatalist. 
ANSWER: Denis  
Diderot 
[10] Diderot is better known for co-editing this reference book with Jean Le Rond d’Alembert. 
ANSWER:  
The  Encyclopedia 
 [or  
Le  Encyclopedie 
] 
079-12-59-13214  
15. This body passed a law forbidding its dissolution without its members' consent, and it lasted from 1640 
to 1653, which earned this body its moniker. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this legislative body that passed the Grand Remonstrance against Charles I and was diminished 
to the Rump Parliament by Pride's Purge. 
ANSWER:  
Long 
 Parliament 
[10] Charles I was also the target of this 1628 document issued by Parliament that outlined complaints. It 
sought no taxation without Parliamentary consent, no imprisonment without cause, no quartering of troops, 
and no martial law in peacetime. 
ANSWER:  
Petition of Right 
[10] The Petition of Right was created by this British jurist who defended the supremacy of the Common 
Law against the Stuarts. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Coke 
030-12-59-13215  
16. A series of sedimentary rock layers that stretches from this park to the Grand Canyon is known as the 
Grand Staircase. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this National Park in which frost-wedging and water erosion have formed a series of spires 
called “hoodoos.” 
ANSWER:  
Bryce Canyon 
 National Park 
[10] Bryce Canyon National Park is located in this state, which is majority Mormon. 
ANSWER:  
Utah 
[10] This city to the north of Salt Lake City is the closest to Promontory Peak and is the site of Weber State 
University. 
ANSWER:  
Ogden 
015-12-59-13216  
17. Critic John Lahr wrote that before this play, \"I thought words were just vessels of meaning; after it, I 
saw them as weapons of defense.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which Max, his brother Sam, and his three sons Lenny, Joey, and Teddy one-up 
each other in their sexual games with Ruth. 
ANSWER:  
The  Homecoming 
[10]  
The Homecoming 
 was a Tony-winning play by this British playwright who also wrote  
The Caretaker 
and  
The Dumbwaiter. 
ANSWER: Harold  
Pinter 
[10] Max accuses his wife Charlotte of infidelity in a play within the earlier Tony-winning play  
The Real 
Thing 
, written by this playwright of  
Travesties 
. 
ANSWER: Tom  
Stoppard 
 [or Tomas  
Straussler 
] 
020-12-59-13217  
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  10 of 11 
18. The magnitude of this effect can be measured with an ebullioscope (eh-BYOO-lee-oh-scope). For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this phenomenon that occurs when the presence of a solute decreases the vapor pressure of a 
substance. 
ANSWER:  
boiling point elevation 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
[10] The amount of boiling point elevation, like many other colligative properties, is proportional to this 
quantity, the moles of solute divided by kilograms of solvent. 
ANSWER:  
molality 
 [do not accept “molarity”] 
[10] The number of dissolved particles per solute particle is given by this factor denoted  . 
i 
ANSWER:  
van’t Hoff 
 factor 
132-12-59-13218  
19. This declaration is divided into five parts, the first of which is the TANU \"Creed.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Tanzanian declaration of \"African Socialism\" that outlined the policy of Ujamma, or 
\"brotherhood.\" 
ANSWER:  
Arusha 
 Declaration 
[10] The Arusha Declaration was issued by this first prime minister of Tanganyika. This man kept John 
Okello from returning to Zanzibar, an action that allowed him to oversee the creation of Tanzania and 
become its first president. 
ANSWER: Julius Kambarage  
Nyerere 
[10] During Nyerere's presidency, Tanzania went to war with this Idi Amin-led country after it attempted to 
annex Kagera. Earlier this country had expelled all Asians from its borders. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Uganda 
149-12-59-13219  
20. The incidence of this value is where the burden of paying it ultimately falls. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this value, the ratio of income or consumption that becomes government revenue. 
ANSWER: average  
tax 
 rate 
[10] For consumption taxes, the incidence depends on this property of supply and demand. For demand, 
this is the percentage change in quantity demanded given a one percent change in price. 
ANSWER: price  
elasticity 
[10] Deadweight loss can theoretically be minimized with this type of tax. This tax is constant for 
households regardless of behavior, so there are no distortionary effects, but is also regressive. 
ANSWER:  
lump-sum 
 tax 
121-12-59-13220  
21. For 10 points each, give the following about experiments important to our understanding of DNA. 
[10] This doubly eponymous experiment used  
E. coli 
 to prove that DNA replication is a semi-conservative 
process. 
ANSWER:  
Meselson-Stahl 
 experiment [accept answer in reverse order] 
[10] In his namesake experiment, this man injected mice with both non-virulent bacteria and heat-killed 
virulent bacteria, and some of the mice died. Knowing that heat denatures proteins, he concluded that 
proteins could not have been responsible for transferring the genetic material between bacteria, as some 
thought. 
ANSWER: Fred  
Griffith 
[10] The Hershey-Chase \"blender\" experiment used a radioactive form of this element, which in DNA and 
RNA forms a type of diester bond. 
ANSWER:  
phosphorus 
079-12-59-13221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 13     Page  11 of 11 
