VHSL Regular Season 
Round 16 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Fluid movement across these entities is calculated by the Starling equation. In the kidney, the glomerulus is formed of these 
entities, whose activity was first observed by Marcello Malphigi. A \"fenestrated\" type of these allows small amounts of protein 
and small molecules to diffuse through it. Many of these structures are only one cell thick. Oxygen is delivered to cells by 
diffusing across the walls of these vessels. For 10 points, name these smallest blood vessels in the human body. 
ANSWER:   
capillaries 
 [or  
capillary 
; or  
capillary 
 bed before mentioned] 
032-09-2-01101 
2. This President was nicknamed \"Ice Veins\" because of his cold personality. This man helped settle a boundary dispute between 
Great Britain and Venezuela. One controversial bill signed by this President gave disability pensions to veterans even if their 
injury was not from combat. This man worked with the \"Billion Dollar Congress\" and signed the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, the 
Sherman Silver Purchase Act, and the McKinley Tariff. For 10 points, name this President, the grandson of William Henry 
Harrison.  
ANSWER:      enjamin  
B Harrison 
 [prompt on  
Harrison 
] 
021-09-2-01102 
3. These particles can undergo an inelastic scattering process described by the Klein-Nishina formula; that process consists of 
them losing energy when they collide with matter due to Compton Scattering. When one of these particles imparts enough energy 
to an electron for it to exceed the work function, that electron may be emitted from the surface of a metal in an effect described in 
a 1905 Einstein paper.  For 10 points, name these particles which are responsible for the photoelectric effect and which are the 
carriers of all electromagnetic radiation, such as x-rays and light. 
ANSWER:  
photon 
s 
028-09-2-01103 
4. In one work by this author, the feminist Olive Chancellor trains Verena for a performance at the Music Hall. In another work by 
this author, the Pococks comes to Paris when Chad chooses to remain with Madame Vionnet rather than return to New England. 
Lambert Strether is one of the title character of this author's  
The Ambassadors 
. Mrs. Grose is a housekeeper of an estate at Bly in 
another work by this author, in which ghosts named Peter Quint and Miss Jessel terrorize the children Miles and Flora. For 10 
points, name this author who created Isabel Archer and wrote “The Turn of the Screw”? 
ANSWER:   Henry  
James 
034-09-2-01104 
5. A political cartoon about this man's nomination for president showed him sitting on a pyramid of skulls with the caption \"An 
Available Man.\" This President's cabinet was dominated by his Secretary of State, who negotiated a treaty with the British 
diplomat Henry Bulwer, named John M. Clayton. This man died of cholera after eating strawberries and milk and was succeeded 
by his Vice-President, Millard Fillmore. Earlier, this President won fame by winning the Battle of Buena Vista against Santa 
Anna. For 10 points, name this President, nicknamed \"Ol' Rough and Ready\", who won the Election of 1848.  
ANSWER:   Zachary  
Taylor 
021-09-2-01105 
6. One of this poet's poems states \"They shut me up in Prose, as when a little girl, they put me in the Closet.\" Another of this 
author's poems describes \"a certain slant of light on winter afternoons.\" This poet also wrote a poem about a \"narrow Fellow in the 
Grass,\" which was one of the few works she published during her lifetime. The speaker of one of her poems \"heard a fly buzz 
when [she] died.\" The speaker of another work by this poet rides in a carriage with the titular figure and immortality. For 10 
points, name this poet who wrote \"Because I could not stop for Death,\" a woman known as the \"bard of Amherst.\" 
ANSWER:   Emily Elizabeth  
Dickinson 
024-09-2-01106 
7. Cardano's method is used to find these, and Vieta's formulas give results for summing and multiplying over all of these values. 
Repeatedly subtracting the quotient of a function and its derivative is used in Newton's Method for approximating these. Another 
formula for finding these involves the discriminant \"b squared minus 4ac.\" The Fundamental Theorem of Algebra says that a 
polynomial of order n has n of these, and for order two polynomials, they can be found with the quadratic formula. For 10 points, 
name these values that when input to a polynomial result in an output of zero. 
ANSWER: polynomial  
roots 
 [accept  
zeros 
 before it is read] 
028-09-2-01107 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 16     Page  1 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. The second one of these compositions by Rachmaninoff uses long chords to imitate churchbells, and its second movement's 
theme was adapted into a pop song called \"Full Moon and Empty Arms.\" Grieg's composition of this type opens with a timpani 
roll that leads into a fortissimo A minor chord. Maurice Ravel composed one of these in G major and another in D major for Paul 
Wittgenstein that is \"for the left hand,\" and Beethoven's final one is in E flat major and is often nicknamed the \"Emperor.\" For 10 
points, name this type of composition for orchestra and solo keyboard instrument. 
ANSWER:   
piano concerto 
   [prompt on  
concerto 
] 
032-09-2-01108 
9. A disease related to this organelle is caused by a lack of hexosaminidase (HEX-ose-am-IN-ih-dace) A, characterized by a red 
spot in the iris, and called Tay-Sachs disease. Mannose-6-phosphate tags proteins destined for this organelle. This organelle 
contains namesake hydrolases and can absorb material via autophagy. This organelle's V-class proton pumps create an acidic 
environment to carry out its main function. For 10 points, name this organelle that breaks down macromolecules and cellular 
waste. 
ANSWER:   
lysosome 
032-09-2-01109 
10. In one work by this author, the prisoner Sologdin attempts to trade his “voice encoder” for his freedom. In another of this 
man's novels, Pavel Rusanov, the government informer with a large tumor on his neck, is one of the figures that Oleg Kostoglov 
meets at the hospital. This author of  
First Circle 
 and  
The Cancer Ward 
 also wrote a work that begins with a trumpet signaling the 
awakening of the title character, who lives in a gulag labor camp. For 10 points, name this Soviet author who emigrated to the 
U.S. and wrote  
One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich 
. 
ANSWER:    Aleksandr Isayevich  
Solzhenitsyn 
034-09-2-01110 
11. He collaborated with Alfred Hitchcock on the set design for the dream sequence in the film  
Spellbound 
. His thoughts on birth 
and rebirth are evident in the motifs of eggs and egg-shaped objects that persist in his sculptures and paintings, as well as the decor 
of his home in Spain. His love for Gala, his wife,also made her a popular subject in his work. For 10 points, what 
twentieth-century artist is perhaps most famous for including dripping clocks in his painting  
The Persistence of Memory 
? 
ANSWER: Salvador  
Dali 
045-09-2-01111 
12. Confederate forces withdrew to Corinth after this battle. This battle's second day saw the Union side reinforced with the troops 
of Don Carlos Buell's Army of the Ohio. The main Confederate force at this battle had recently been named the Army of the 
Mississippi. That army at this battle lost many troops fighting in a dense bunch of oak trees nicknamed the \"hornet's nest.\" General 
Albert Sydney Johnston died during this battle. This battle was fought near Pittsburg Landing. For 10 points, name this Civil War 
battle fought on April 6th and 7th, 1862, in Tennessee. 
ANSWER:   Battle of  
Shiloh 
 [or Battle of  
Pittsburg Landing 
 before mentioned] 
004-09-2-01112 
13. This author used a line from Tennyson’s “Tithonous” to title his novel in which Dr. Obispo searches for immortality for the 
Hollywood millionaire Jo Styte. This man's most famous novel features an inane movie titled  
Three Weeks in a Helicopter 
. One 
character in that work by this author reads from  
Othello 
 and dates Lenina Crowne. This author created the characters Mustapha 
Mond and John the Savage. For 10 points, name this British author who wrote about Bernard Marx living in a soma-consuming 
society in his novel  
Brave New World 
. 
ANSWER:    Aldous Leonard  
Huxley 
034-09-2-01113 
14. This dynasty was opposed by the Liao in the north and their predecessors, the Jin, who sacked their capital of Bianjing. This 
dynasty was unable to unify all of China. This dynasty made its last stand at the Battle of Yamen. This dynasty was founded by 
Zhao Kuangyin, or Emperor Taizu. This dynasty was the first to issue paper money. Technological advances during this dynasty 
included the first compass and the first use of gunpowder. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty which emerged from the Five 
Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period, and was defeated by the founder of the Yuan Dynasty, Kublai Khan. 
ANSWER:    
Song 
 Dynasty 
035-09-2-01114 
15. The narrator of this author's most famous work discovers that Albertine Simonet was a lesbian after her death. That work by 
this author has volumes such as  
Sodom and Gomorrah 
 and  
Within a Budding Grove 
, and opens with memories brought on by the 
consumption of a tea-soaked madeleine. For 10 points, name this French author who discussed the narrator’s childhood memories 
in the section  
Swann’s Way 
 of his monumental work  
In Search of Lost Time 
. 
ANSWER:    Valentin Louis Georges Eugène Marcel  
Proust 
034-09-2-01115 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 16     Page  2 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 16 
Directed Round 
1A. Dictators like Stalin and Hitler asserted that it was part of a Zionist conspiracy. Name this language that, according to creator 
Ludovic Zamenhof, was created to further peace and communication. 
ANSWER:    
Esperanto 
1B. Upon his assimilation, he was renamed \"Locutus of Borg.\" Name this captain of the U.S.S. Enterprise-D and Enterprise-E, 
portrayed by Patrick Stewart. 
ANSWER:   Captain Jean-Luc  
Picard 
2A. Famous ones include \"Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night.\" Name this poetic form consisting of five three-line stanzas 
and one four-line stanza that contain two refrain lines. 
ANSWER:    
villanelle 
2B. Name the archipelago that was first connected to the state to which it belongs by Henry Flagler's Overseas Railway. It is more 
famous today for its Seven-Mile Bridge. 
ANSWER:   Florida  
Keys 
3A. Most cases result from a lack of Factor VIII, and most sufferers of this disease are male. Name this sex-linked disorder that 
inhibits clotting. 
ANSWER:    
hemophilia 
3B. Derek Freeman asserted that islanders were playing a practical joke on this anthropologist while she conducted her study of 
Tau island adolescents for her best-known work. Name this author of  
Coming of Age in Samoa 
. 
ANSWER:   Margaret  
Mead 
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Multiply: (7x+5)(x+4). 
ANSWER:    
7x  + 33x + 20 
2 
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Subtract: 37/5 - 13/15. 
ANSWER:    
98/15 
 [or  
6 8/15 
] 
5A. Name the group of rocks that includes basalt and obsidian and that results from the solidification of magma. 
ANSWER:    
igneous 
 rock 
5B. What law of optics states that the concentration of a sample and path length through it are proportional to the sample's 
absorption of light? 
ANSWER:    
Beer 
-Lambert law 
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A woodworker needs to cut two pieces, each five and five-eights inches long, from a 
one-foot-long board.  How much of the board will be unused? 
ANSWER:    
3/4 
 inch 
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Solve the system: 7x + y = 22 and -2x - y = -7. 
ANSWER:    
(3,1) 
 [or  
x=3, y=1 
 or equivalents] 
7A. Name the British and Sri Lankan musician whose song \"Paper Planes\" off her album  
Kala 
 was featured in the film  
Slumdog 
Millionaire 
. 
ANSWER:    
MIA 
 [or Mathangi Maya  
Arulpragasam 
] 
7B. Name the scientist and vaccination pioneer whose namesake process is used to heat and kill dangerous bacteria in foods like 
milk and juice. 
ANSWER:   Louis  
Pasteur 
8A. Name the sculptor whose \"stabiles\" include the enormous  
Flamingo 
, and whose \"mobiles\" include the Museum of Modern 
Art's  
Lobster Trap and Fish Tail 
.  
VHSL Regular Season     Round 16     Page  3 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
ANSWER:   Alexander  
Calder 
8B. Name the common metrical form used in such poems as \"Shall I compare thee to a summer's day\" that includes five 
repetitions of an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable.  
ANSWER:    
iambic pentameter 
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the arithmetic mean of the numbers 96, 63, 25, 69, 6, and 12. 
ANSWER:    
45 
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the area of a trapezoid with a height of 6 inches and bases of 10 and 14 
inches? 
ANSWER:    
72 square inches 
10A. Name the religious organization in which liberal and conservative factions have been quarreling over whether or not to 
permit gay marriage and the ordination of female and homosexual clerics. 
ANSWER:    
Anglican 
 Church 
10B. Name the Italian prime minister who faced scandal over marital troubles stemming from his affection for an 18-year-old 
named Noemi Letizia. 
ANSWER:   Silvio  
Berlusconi 
032-09-2-01116 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 16     Page  4 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 16 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This thinker described the beautiful, agreeable, good, and sublime types of the titular action in one work. This man 
distinguished between analytic and synthetic propositions and put forth the possibility of a priori knowledge in his most famous 
work.  This author of  
Critique of Judgement 
 outlined an ethical rule based in duty that states that every moral question has an 
absolute answer that must be followed. For 10 points, name this German Idealist philosopher who wrote  
Critique of Pure Reason 
and formulated the Categorical Imperative. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
005-09-2-01117 
2. Georgi Chicherin signed the Treaty of Rapallo with this now defunct regime. This government faced a coup by Walter von 
Luttwitz and Wolfgang Kapp. The Enabling Act signaled the demise of this regime. This government was opposed by the 
Spartacist League in its early history. The Dawes Plan was created to help this government. This regime's downfall was brought 
about by the leader of the Beer Hall Putsch against it. Friedrich Ebert and Paul von Hindenburg were members of, for 10 points, 
which post World War I government of Germany, which was eventually replaced by the Third Reich. 
ANSWER:   
Weimar 
 Republic 
035-09-2-01118 
3. This writer used a Rococo-style stageset in his play centered on the Night of the Long Knives,  
My Friend Hitler 
. A thirteen 
year-old boy kills his mother’s lover in this author's  
The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea 
. The stammering protagonist of 
another work by this man is traumatized when Uiko is shot by her lover and his friend Tsurukawa commits suicide. In addition to 
Mizoguchi, this writer created a character that is reincarnated in books like  
Runaway Horses 
 and  
Spring Snow 
, part of this man's  
The Sea of Fertility 
 tetralogy. For 10 points, what seppuku-committing author wrote  
The Temple of Golden Pavilion 
? 
ANSWER:    
Mishima 
 Yukio 
034-09-2-01119 
4. Computer graphics specialist Henrik Jensen developed a mapping algorithm that depicts this phenomenon more realistically. 
Depth of field is accounted for when trying to model the effects of this phenomenon in the ray tracing algorithm. For 10 points, 
name this phenomenon whose accurate depiction in computer science is necessary for photorealism. 
ANSWER:   
light 
033-09-2-01120 
5. This composer parodied Clementi's didactic piano books in \"Doctor Gradus ad Parnassum,\" part of a suite with movements like 
\"Jimbo's Lullaby\" and \"Golliwogg's Cakewalk,\"  
Children's Corner 
. Another work by this composer of  
Prelude for the Afternoon 
of a Faun 
 was inspired by a Paul Verlaine poem and appears in the same suite as a Menuet and Passpied. For 10 points, name this 
Impressionist composer of the  
Suite Bergamasque 
, which includes the \"Clair de lune.\" 
ANSWER:  Claude  
Debussy 
032-09-2-01121 
6. Deviations from this law depend on whether the activity coefficient is greater than or less than one. The success of fractional 
distillation relies on solutions for which this law holds. Liquids that conform to this law are called perfect solutions. Deviations 
from this law occur when mixtures are nonideal and nonbinary, and liquids deviating from this law form azeotropes. For 10 points, 
name this law that states that the vapor pressure of a solution is equal to the products of the partial pressure of each component of 
the solution and its mole fraction. 
ANSWER:   
Raoult 
's law 
032-09-2-01122 
7. One invasion under this ruler led to the death by beating of Cornelis and Johan de Witt before the treaty of Nijmegen ended the 
Dutch War. That war led to the ascension to power of this man's longtime enemy, William III. Charles II's granting of Spain to this 
ruler's grandson sparked the War of the Spanish Succession. This man revoked the rights given to Protestants in his country by 
Henry IV in the Edict of Nantes in his own Edict of Fontainebleau. For 10 points, name this French monarch, whose long rule led 
to his being named the Sun King. 
ANSWER:   
Louis XIV 
 [accept  
Sun King 
 before read; prompt on  
Louis 
] 
023-09-2-01123 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 16     Page  5 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. In a semi-autobiographical work, this author described Leo’s attempt to create the Happiness Machine and other events during 
Douglas Spalding’s summer break. In one work by this author, Mr. Dark and Mr. Cooger try to take over Green Town with their 
evil carnival. In another novel by this author, Clarisse McCellan and Professor Faber help the protagonist rebel, although he is 
betrayed by his wife Mildred. This author of  
Something Wicked This Way Comes 
 and  
Dandelion Wine 
 also created fireman Guy 
Montag in a novel named for the temperature at which books burn. For 10 points, name this author of  
Farenheit 451 
. 
ANSWER:   Ray Douglas  
Bradbury 
034-09-2-01124 
9. This ruler seized power after the death of consuls Hirtius and Pansa. This emperor is said to have cried, \"Varus, give me back 
my legions,\" after a loss to Arminius at the Battle of Teutoburg Forest. This ruler was the subject of a philippic by Cicero. This 
man's general Agrippa was successful in the Battle of Actium over his political opponent, who formed the Second Triumvirate 
with himself and Marcus Lepidus. This emperor was succeeded by Tiberius and he defeated Mark Antony and Cleopatra. For 10 
points, name this first emperor of the Roman Empire, the adopted son of Julius Caesar. 
ANSWER:  Gaius Julius Caesar  
Augustus 
 [or  
Octavian 
; or Gaius  
Octavius 
 Thurinus] 
035-09-2-01125 
10. Addo Elephant National Park is located near one city in this nation, and another city includes the tourist district known as the 
Golden Mile. Those cities in this nation are Port Elizabeth and Durban. This nation is home to the Drakensberg Mountains and the 
Great Escarpment, and this nation completely surrounds the Kingdom of Lesotho. For 10 points, name this nation whose judicial 
capital is in Bloemfontein and whose legislative capital is in Cape Town. 
ANSWER:  Republic of  
South Africa 
030-09-2-01126 
11. He played Darrell Curtis, older brother of Sodapop and Ponyboy in  
The Outsiders 
, and Jed, the leader of a teenage militia 
battling Russian invaders in  
Red Dawn 
. He turned dancing skills into martial arts moves as Dalton in  
Roadhouse 
 and played the 
lovely Vida in  
To Wong Foo Thanks For Everything Julie Newmar 
. His final role was Chet Barker in the television series  
The 
Beast 
, which he filmed while receiving treatment for pancreatic cancer. For 10 points, name this actor who danced with Baby in  
Dirty Dancing 
. 
ANSWER: Patrick  
Swayze 
045-09-2-01127 
12. The formation and dissolution of this mineral created the Snowy River Cave in New Mexico.  One variety of it known as 
Iceland Spar is used in optics, and Rasmus Bartholin discovered birefringence in one of its single crystals in 1669.  It is found in 
metamorphic marble as well as in most stalagmites and stalactites.  Along with aragonite and vaterite, it is a polymorph of calcium 
carbonate.  For 10 points, name this mineral, the main constituent of sedimentary rocks such as limestone and of marine 
organisms' shells. 
ANSWER:    
Calcite 
040-09-2-01128 
13. This person criticized the Draft Ordinance of 1906. This man led a division of stretcher bearers during a 1906 Zulu rebellion. 
This leader emphasized the importance of swaraj. This man supported a protest in Champaran. This leader's most famous protest 
was a 248-mile march to Dandi against taxes on the titular substance, known as the Salt March. For 10 points, name this man who 
created the concept of satyagraha, or non-violent resistance, a leader of the Indian independence movement prior to his 1948 
assassination. 
ANSWER:  Mahatma  
Gandhi 
 [or Mohandas Karamchand  
Gandhi 
] 
038-09-2-01129 
14. The narrator of one of this author’s poems observes “Blue--blue--as if that sky let fall, a flower from its cerulean wall” In 
another work, this author of “To the Fringed Gentian” notes that the title figure should soon depart from his heart, even though 
“the abyss of heaven has swallowed up” its form. Earlier, the speaker of that poem by this author asks, “Far, through their rosy 
depths, dost thou pursu thy solitary way?” This poet also wrote than one should approach the grave like a person who “lies down 
to pleasant dreams” in his meditation on death, “Thanatopsis.” For 10 points, name this early American poet of \"To a Waterfowl.\" 
ANSWER:  William Cullen  
Bryant 
034-09-2-01130 
15. One of her sons, Parthenopaeus (PAR-then-o-PAY-us), was one of the Seven Against Thebes. This figure and her husband 
were turned into lions after making love in the shrine of Cybele. She was suckled by a bear as a child. She offered to marry anyone 
who could outrace her, but killed anyone she passed. This figure lost a race to Hippomenes by stopping three times to pick up the 
golden apples of the Hesperides. For 10 points, name this huntress from who took first blood from the Caldydonian Boar.  
ANSWER:   
Atalanta 
030-09-2-01131 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 16     Page  6 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 16 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. When preceded by the word \"concert,\" this term can be used to describe works like Beethoven's \"Ah, perfido!\" and Mozart's 
\"Conservati fedele.\" Handel's oratorio Messiah contains three of the \"da capo\" variety of this form, which is named for its 
improvisational section. Famous examples of this form include \"Vesti la Giubba\" and \"Largo Al Factotum,\" in which the Barber 
of Seville introduces himself as \"Figaro, Figaro, Figaro.\" For 10 points, name this Italian term which is usually used to describe 
the individual songs in an opera. 
ANSWER:   
aria 
015-09-2-01132 
2. Ring current occurs when deshielding takes place in this type of molecule. Compounds exhibiting this property tend to have 4n 
+ 2 pi electrons, according to a rule named for Huckel. Specific compounds that exhibit this property include coronene and 
naphthalenes. Compounds with the homo- variety of this property exhibit it despite an sp2 carbon that interrupts electron 
delocalization across a ring. For 10 points, name this property in which systems of pi bonds are stabilized by bond conjugation, 
seen in benzene and the namesake smelly compounds. 
ANSWER:   
aromatic 
ity 
032-09-2-01133 
3. The title character of this play claims that Saturninus's words are \"razors to my wounded heart.\" In this play, Lavinia is raped 
and her tongue and hands cut off to prevent her from identifying the guilty parties, who are later baked into a pie. The title 
character of this play captures a Gothic queen and executes her son Alarbus, incurring her vengeance. That queen is Tamora, who 
is the lover of Aaron the Moor in this play. For 10 points, name this play, thought to be Shakespeare's first tragedy, named for a 
vengeful Roman general. 
ANSWER:   
Titus Andronicus 
045-09-2-01134 
4. The vastus intermedius attaches to the linea aspera on the posterior surface of this bone.  The fovea capitis is located at the head 
of this bone.  Its lateral epicondyle attaches to both the popliteus muscle and the fibular collateral ligament, while the medial 
epicondyle joins with the tibial collateral ligament.  A broken hip is caused by a break in not the pelvis but this other bone.  For 10 
points, name this bone of the thigh, the longest bone in the body. 
ANSWER:   
femur 
 [prompt on early  
thighbone 
] 
003-09-2-01135 
5. The fourth book of this work is entitled \"Of Systems of Political Economy,\" and argues against mercantilism. Its first section 
uses a pin factory to illustrate the concept of the division of labor. This work also introduced the concept that individuals pursuing 
their own interests promote the good of the market, which he called the \"invisible hand.\" For 10 points, name this work published 
in 1776 by the economist Adam Smith. 
ANSWER: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the  
Wealth of Nations 
024-09-2-01136 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 16     Page  7 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
