2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals 
Round 16 
First Quarter 
1. According to Loyseau, the first rank of this group is the men of letters. In one pamphlet titled for this 
group, the author calls for a vote by head. This group is defined as “everything” in a pamphlet by Abbe 
Sieyes, which is entitled “What is” this group? For 10 points, name this lowest order of the ancient regime, 
which was different from the nobility and clergy. 
ANSWER:  
Third Estate 
149-12-58-16101 
2. In March 2012, the senior Senator from this state was ruled ineligible to vote here. Along with New 
Jersey's Frank Lautenberg, a man from this state is the only other person to be serving a nonconsecutive 
term in the Senate. That man, who succeeded Evan Bayh, is its junior Senator, Dan Coats. For 10 points, 
name this state also represented by Richard Lugar. 
ANSWER:  
Indiana 
019-12-58-16102 
3. This man gained permission from Pope Innocent VI to marry his cousin Joan, the Fair Maid of Kent. 
This man was offered the lordship of Biscay in return for helping Peter the Cruel regain his throne, which 
this man aided by fighting in the battle of Najera (NAH-hair-uh). One movement led by Guillaume Cale 
known as the Jacquerie (ZHAHK-uh-ree) was started by the high ransom following this man’s capture of 
Philip the Bold and John the Good at a battle where this man earned his “spurs.” For 10 points, name this 
son of Edward III who won the Battle of Poitiers (pwa-TYEY). 
ANSWER: Edward, the  
Black Prince 
 [or  
Edward of Woodstock 
] 
149-12-58-16103 
4. This man was the first European to encounter the Zamorins. He led an expedition to avenge the massacre 
of Pedro Cabral’s troops, during which he bombarded a city he had previously traded with. His most 
notable voyage included a stop in Mombasa, after which he sailed the  
Sao Gabriel 
 to Calicut. For 10 
points, name this first Portuguese explorer to reach India. 
ANSWER: Vasco  
da Gama 
132-12-58-16104 
5. Daniel Lindley and James Archbell provided religious services during this event that began at 
Grahamstown and Uitenhage. Participants in this event rode in jawbone wagons and were not pursued in 
Drakensberg. Most people made it across the Orange River into Transvaal during this event. For 10 points, 
name this move away from Cape Colony by the Voortrekkers. 
ANSWER:  
Great Trek 
 [or  
Groot Trek 
] 
124-12-58-16105 
6. Otto Preminger’s film  
In Harm’s Way 
 opens shortly after this battle. Frank Sinatra and Burt Lancaster 
play soldiers whose lives in the weeks leading up to this battle are documented in  
From Here to Eternity 
. 
This subject of John Ford’s propaganda film  
December 7th 
 was also depicted in  
Tora, Tora, Tora 
. For 10 
points, name this Hawaiian World War II battle. 
ANSWER: Attack on  
Pearl Harbor 
 [or Battle of  
Pearl Harbor 
] 
015-12-58-16106 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  1 of 11 
7. One device at this facility is named for the Rabelais (RAB-uh-ley) character Gargamelle 
(GAR-guh-mell). This facility funded the ENQUIRE project, which was headed by Tim Berners-Lee and 
developed the prototype of the World Wide Web. Through the CMS and ATLAS projects, this facility 
hopes to discover the Higgs boson. For 10 points, name this Swiss laboratory which houses the Large 
Hadron Collider. 
ANSWER:  
CERN 
 [or  
 European Organization for Nuclear Research 
] 
015-12-58-16107 
8. A part of the larger campaign to capture Russia’s main Black Sea naval base, it followed the Allied 
victory at the Battle of Alma. The 93rd Highland Regiment of Sutherland Highlanders formed the Thin Red 
Line of this battle and repelled a Russian cavalry charge. For 10 points, name the battle of the Crimean War 
that featured the Charge of the Light Brigade. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Balaclava 
147-12-58-16108 
9. This man led a successful opposition movement against the doctrines of the biologist Trofim Lysenko 
(tro-fim ly-sank-oh). His essay \"Reflections on Progress, Peaceful Coexistence, and Intellectual Freedom\" 
was distributed as a samzidat. This man proposed the \"layer cake\" design for a thermonuclear bomb. For 10 
points, name this Soviet physicist and political dissident. 
ANSWER: Andrey  
Sakharov 
030-12-58-16109 
10. Following the death of Albert Sidney Johnston, this man assumed command at the Battle of Shiloh. He 
subsequently served as the head of the Louisiana Lottery. This general wrote the book  
A Report of the 
Defence of Charleston 
. For 10 points, name this Confederate general at the Battle of Manassas who also 
ordered the bombardment of Fort Sumter. 
ANSWER: Pierre Gustave Toutant  
Beauregard 
030-12-58-16110 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  2 of 11 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals 
Round 16 
Second Quarter 
1. One leader of this country was killed by Paul Hudl (HOO-duhl) and Otto Planetta as part of the failed 
July Putsch planned by Anton Rintelen (RIN-tuh-lin). The First of May Constitution created this country’s 
namesake “fascism. The Heimwehr (HYME-wair) was led by Emil Fey and created by this country’s 
leader Engelbert Dolfuss. This country was annexed while it was led by Kurt Schuschnigg (SCHOOZ-nig), 
although the reversal of that annexation was affirmed in the Moscow Declaration. For 10 points, name this 
country that was annexed by Germany as part of the Anschluss (AHN-shloos). 
ANSWER:  
Austria 
BONUS: The annexation of Austria attempted to create what entity, which was the opposite of 
Kleindeutschland? 
ANSWER:  
Grossdeutschland 
 (\"GROSS\"-en DOICH-land) [or  
Groberdeutsches Reich 
; or  
Greater 
Germany 
; or  
Greater German Reich 
] 
149-12-58-16101 
2. The narrator of this poem notices \"bouquets and ribboned wreaths\" on the shore, where the masses watch 
with \"eager faces turning.\" It notes that “the ship has weathered every rack, the prize we sought is won.” It 
was the only poem its author wrote with a conventional meter and rhyme scheme. It opens by noting “our 
fearful trip is done,” before stating that the title character has “fallen cold and dead” upon the deck. For 10 
points, name this poem which analogizes the assassination of Lincoln to the death of a mariner, a work by 
Walt Whitman. 
ANSWER: “ 
O Captain! My Captain! 
” 
BONUS: Whitman included poems like “The Artillery Man’s Vision” in this poetry collection inspired by 
the Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
Drum-Taps 
015-12-58-16102 
3. One substance used in this event can be stored in a monstrance to facilitate adoration. One substance 
used in this event is held on a paten. The phrase \"Do this in remembrance of me\" is said during this rite. An 
important difference between Protestants and Catholics is whether they believe in the transubstantiation 
doctrine at the center of this sacrament. For 10 points, identify this sacrament in which the Last Supper is 
reenacted by the consumption of bread and wine. 
ANSWER:  
Eucharist 
 [or Holy  
Communion 
; or the  
Sacrament of the Altar 
; or the  
Blessed Sacrament 
; 
or the  
Lord's Supper 
; or the  
Breaking of Bread 
] 
BONUS: Extra consecrated host, usually set aside for the sick, is stored in a locked box given this name. 
ANSWER:  
tabernacle 
066-12-58-16103 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  3 of 11 
4. This man is believed to be Gildas's \"proud tyrant.\" A later account conflates this man with the Roman 
Gerontius, and claims that this man regained the throne when his wife Rowena poisoned his son. That son 
had overthrown this man after he had awarded Kent to Rowena's father, Hengist, whom this man turned 
against him after Hengist and Horsa brought more Angles and Saxons with them. For 10 points, name this 
fifth-century king of Britain sometimes considered to be an evil predecessor of King Arthur. 
ANSWER:  
Vortiger 
n [or  
Vortigen 
; or  
Vertigern 
us; or  
Vurtigern 
us] 
BONUS: Many of the legends about Vortigern come from what twelfth-century writer whose  
History of the 
Kings of Britain 
 lay many of the foundations of Arthurian myth? 
ANSWER:  
Geoffrey 
 of Monmouth 
003-12-58-16104 
5. One of these people once stopped the march of Yu Liangfu's army with a beautiful poem. One of these 
people who became an emperor ordered the construction of the Wild Goose Pagoda and interrupted the 
Tang Dynasty. Mao Zedong once remarked that this group held up half the sky. Supposedly to improve 
their attractiveness, many of them had their feet bound. For 10 points, name this gender that farmed silk 
worms and comprised half of ancient China's population. 
ANSWER: Chinese  
women 
 [or Chinese  
female 
s; or Chinese  
girl 
s or Chinese  
empress 
es; or Chinese  
princess 
es; or other female versions of male positions] 
BONUS: Guo Maoqian's  
Music Bureau Collection 
 is the earliest surviving source of the legend of what 
woman who took her father's place in the army during the Northern Wei Dynasty? 
ANSWER: Hua  
Mulan 
 [or Fa  
Mulan 
] 
020-12-58-16105 
6. These people were the subject of the African Union’s Maputo Protocol. These people’s integration into 
post-conflict settings was addressed by UN Security Council resolution 1325, and Michelle Bachelet heads 
the UN organization named for them. March 8 is the international day of these people. Another convention 
titled after these people, called CEDAW, aroused controversy due to its call to decriminalize abortion. For 
10 points, name these people who are often the targets of honor killings and genital mutilation. 
ANSWER:  
women 
BONUS: One perpetual women’s rights issue is this nation, whose leadership recently stated that women 
would be allowed to drive soon. 
ANSWER:  
Saudi Arabia 
048-12-58-16106 
7. Noah Homes invented equipment for this commodity, for which Richard Arkwright invented a 
water-frame. Mulberry Grove was where one invention for this commodity was made before Lyon violated 
its patent. Phineas Miller was the business partner of one man who dealt with this commodity. Samuel 
Slater opened the first mill for this commodity that Paul Revere used to make currency after it was given to 
him by Stephen Crane. For 10 points, Noah Homes and Eli Whitney both invented gins for what crop? 
ANSWER:  
cotton 
BONUS: Following the Civil War, cotton farming largely used what practice by which plantation owners 
allowed landless farmers to grow crops in exchange for a portion of the harvest? 
ANSWER:  
sharecrop 
ping [prompt on  
tenant 
 farming] 
124-12-58-16107 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  4 of 11 
8. The Gikuyu (GICK-oo-yoo) and Mau escarpments lie adjacent to this region. The Awash River rises in 
this region, as does the Shire River. The Afar Triple Junction lies in this region. The husband-and-wife 
Leakey couple are known for excavating the Olduvai (ol-DOO-vai) Gorge in this region. Lakes in this 
region are known for their high diversity of cichlid species and include Victoria and Tanganyika 
(tan-gun-YEEK-uh). It is formed by the separation of the Arabian Peninsula from the African Plate. For 10 
points, identify this extensive rift system in eastern Africa. 
ANSWER:  
Great Rift Valley 
 [or  
Afro-Arabian Rift Valley 
; accept  
East African Rift 
 before \"eastern 
Africa\" is read] 
BONUS: The Great Rift Valley is also home to this second tallest mountain in Africa, which includes the 
peaks of Batian, Nelion and Point Lenana. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Kenya 
066-12-58-16108 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  5 of 11 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals 
Round 16 
Third Quarter 
THE GOLD STANDARD 
Answer the following about the gold standard. 
1. The \"Cross of Gold\" speech became a key platform for which of the two main political parties that lost to 
McKinley in 1896? 
ANSWER:  
Democrat 
s [or  
Democratic 
 Party] 
2. This author is thought to have been writing an allegory to the gold standard debate in his series of books 
involving Oz. 
ANSWER: Lyman Frank  
Baum 
3. This 2012 Presidential candidate from Texas is notable for his support of the gold standard. 
ANSWER: Ronald Ernest  
Paul 
4. This President ended the last system that allowed the dollar to be directly converted to gold. 
ANSWER: Richard Milhous  
Nixon 
5. In 2001, this country's then-Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, proposed the adoption of the gold 
dinar. 
ANSWER:  
Malaysia 
6. This economist, who wrote essays for Ayn Rand's  
Capitalism: the Unknown Ideal 
, was Chair of the 
Federal Reserve from 1987 to 2006. 
ANSWER: Alan  
Greenspan 
7. This President issued an Executive Order making it illegal for Americans to own most forms of gold. 
ANSWER:  ranklin Delano  
F Roosevelt 
 [or  
FDR 
; prompt on  
Roosevelt 
] 
8. This multi-national financial system, agreed to after World War II, allowed the U.S. dollar to be 
converted to gold until 1971. 
ANSWER:  
Bretton Woods 
 system 
088-12-58-1610-1 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  6 of 11 
ELECTION OF 1960 
Which person involved in the presidential election of 1960… 
1. Won the election to become the first Catholic president? 
ANSWER:  ohn Fitzgerald  
J Kennedy 
 [or  
JFK 
; prompt on  
Kennedy 
] 
2. Lost the election but was later elected in 1968? 
ANSWER: Richard Milhous  
Nixon 
3. Lost the Democratic nomination after being nominated the previous two times? 
ANSWER: Adlai Ewing  
Stevenson 
 II 
4. Was the Governor of New York who lost the Republican nomination? 
ANSWER: Nelson Aldrich  
Rockefeller 
5. Was the Republican vice presidential nominee and son of an isolationist Massachusetts senator? 
ANSWER: Henry Cabot  
Lodge 
, Jr. 
6. Compared the Democratic nominee to Superman and later wrote  
The Armies of the Night 
? 
ANSWER: Norman Kingsley  
Mailer 
7. Was a Virginia senator who won 15 electoral votes? 
ANSWER: Harry Flood  
Byrd 
, Sr. 
8. Got one vote for the Democratic nomination, was governor of California, and fathered a future governor? 
ANSWER: Pat  
Brown 
 [or Edmund Gerald  
Brown 
, Sr.; do not accept \"Jerry Brown\"] 
052-12-58-1610-1 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  7 of 11 
EARLY CABINETS 
Who was... 
1. James Madison's Secretary of State and successor as President? 
ANSWER: James  
Monroe 
2. John Adams's second Secretary of State, before being appointed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? 
ANSWER: John  
Marshall 
3. The only Secretary of Foreign Affairs under Washington, a co-author of the Federalist Papers? 
ANSWER: John  
Jay 
4. The acting Secretary of State and Attorney General who signed an 1817 treaty with Britain's Charles 
Bagot? 
ANSWER: Richard  
Rush 
5. The \"Financier of the Revolution\" who was Washington's first choice as Secretary of the Treasury, but 
declined? 
ANSWER: Robert  
Morris 
6. Attorney General under Jefferson and Madison, a nephew and namesake of a Delaware patriot? 
ANSWER: Caesar Augustus  
Rodney 
7. Thomas Jefferson's only Secretary of War, after whom the city of Chicago was originally named? 
ANSWER: Henry  
Dearborn 
8. The first Secretary of the Navy, serving from its inception in 1798 until 1801? 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
Stoddert 
003-12-58-1610-1 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  8 of 11 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals 
Round 16 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
One public figure referred to this group as \"white savages\" after they caused the death of Shehaes, 
who was present at the signing of the second Treaty of Friendship. The Proprietary Party used the 
actions of this group as political leverage during the following election. Benjamin Franklin skillfully 
(+) lied to this group about future legislation in order to turn them away when they marched on 
Philadelphia. This group executed the (*) 
 Conestoga Massacre in 1763, killing twenty defenseless 
Susquehannock (suss-kwuh-han-ock) Indians. For 10 points, name this group of Scots-Irish frontiersmen. 
ANSWER:  
Paxton Boys 
014-12-58-16101 
2.  
This man once said that it was \"God's pleasure\" that he survive so that \"people might learn about 
the things that the world contains\" while in a Genoese prison. This man's father was given golden 
plates asking for holy oil but waited for a new pope to be chosen before two friars joined his 
expedition. Princess (+) Cocachin brought this man as part of a wedding envoy to Persia on the 
orders of her father, who moved the capital from Karakorum to (*) 
 Peking. This explorer described 
Andaman, Java, and Cathay, which he visited on his journeys along with his father Nicolo and his uncle 
Maffeo. For 10 points, name this Italian explorer who visited Kublai Khan. 
ANSWER: Marco  
Polo 
124-12-58-16102 
3.  
Though not Rubinstein, this composer wrote a tone poem based on an Alexey Tolstoy ballad about 
Prince Rostislav drowning in the Stuhna River. The first of this composer's two élégiaque piano trios 
has only one movement. This composer's first symphony was directed by a (+) drunk Glazunov and 
savaged by critics. He composed a set of 24 variations on the 24th Caprice of (*) 
 Paganini, his  
Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini 
. Perhaps his most popular work was dedicated to the hypnotist Dr. Dahl 
and is his Piano Concerto No. 2. His  
Morceaux de fantaisie 
 (MOHR-soh dee \"fantasy\") contains his 
Prelude in C-sharp minor. For 10 points, identify this Russian Romantic composer and virtuoso pianist. 
ANSWER: Sergei  
Rachmaninoff 
066-12-58-16103 
4.  
This man's first crime was a grocery store robbery with Ed Singleton. This man was found with a 
plan for a prison break after one arrest; that plan was used four days later by eight of his friends. 
Stealing a sheriff's car and violating the National Motor Vehicle Act led to this man's downfall. Billie 
Frechette was this man's girlfriend. This man died after going to see (+) Clark Gable's  Manhattan 
Melodrama  with Anna Sage and Polly Hamilton. He was killed by the (*) 
 FBI the same year as Bonnie 
and Clyde and a notable member of his gang, Baby Face Nelson. For 10 points, name this bank robber who 
died outside the Biograph Theater in 1934. 
ANSWER: John Herbert  
Dillinger 
, Jr. 
066-12-58-16104 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  9 of 11 
5.  
A treaty called the \"Capitulation\" of this city forced John Frederick I to resign. This city was 
captured by Prussian forces under the command of Tauentzien (tau-ent-zee-en); earlier, it was 
adopted as the home of Frederick the Wise of Saxony. One popular story claims that though this city 
was not bombed in World War II, bullets struck a statue of (+) Philipp Melanchthon 
(muh-LANGK-thuhn). A group of religious fanatics called the Zwickau prophets were denounced in 
this city by Martin (*) 
 Luther. For 10 points, name this German city whose All Saints Church was where 
the 95 theses of Luther were nailed to the door. 
ANSWER:  
Wittenberg 
, Germany 
088-12-58-16105 
6.  
In one work this character appears in, he is tormented by a giant hand who erases his 
backgrounds and turns him into a walking flower with a flag proclaiming “screwball” attached to his 
tail. This character is sent to find the shaving cream atom in the (+) twenty-fourth-and-a-half 
century, which brings him into conflict with Marvin the Martian. This character was often paired 
with (*) 
 Porky Pig, such as shorts parodying Robin Hood and Westerns. In another short, he sets up signs 
parodying Burma-Shave that say it is rabbit season, but “pronoun trouble” results in him demanding Elmer 
Fudd shoot him anyway. For 10 points, name this Loony Tunes water fowl. 
ANSWER:  
Daffy 
 Duck 
121-12-58-16106 
7.  
One portion of this legislation banned the trading of slaves in the District of Columbia. In the lead 
up to the passage of this piece of legislation, William Seward alleged that the framers of the 
Constitution were subservient to the moral code of the universe in his (+) \"Higher Law\" Speech. It 
provided for the admission of California as a (*) 
 free state and organized the territories of Utah and New 
Mexico, but it also provided for a Fugitive Slave Law. For 10 points, name this legislation drafted by Henry 
Clay named for the year of its passage, which extended many of the provisions of the earlier Missouri 
Compromise. 
ANSWER:  
Compromise of 1850 
040-12-58-16107 
8.  
One member of this party, Cyril Ramaphosa, played a significant role in negotiating with Roelf 
Meyer. This political party was founded by John Dube, and this party's flag contains a black, green, 
and gold stripe. The military wing of this political party was called (+) \"Spear of the Nation.\" One 
leader of this group served a 27-year prison sentence on (*) 
 Robben Island. For 10 points, identify this 
social democratic political party whose members include Jacob Zuma and Nelson Mandela, and which is 
the current governing party of South Africa. 
ANSWER:  
African National Congress 
 [or  
ANC 
; prompt on  
SANNC 
; prompt on  
South African Native 
National Congress 
] 
126-12-58-16108 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  10 of 11 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals 
Round 16 
Extra Questions 
General Rodolfo Herrero had this man assassinated at Tlaxcalantongo (tuh-LOX-kal-an-tohn-goh). 
He denounced the policies of one of his predecessors in the Plan of Guadalupe. He called the 
Convention of Aguascalientes (ah-GWAHZ cahl-ee-EN-tayz), which failed to reconcile the 
differences between him, (+) Obregon, Villa (vee-YAH), and Zapata. He came into opposition with 
the United States during the occupation of (*) 
 Veracruz. At Queretaro (koo-air-ey-TAIR-oh), this man 
organized the drafting of his nation's current constitution. For 10 points, name this president of Mexico who 
came to power after overthrowing the Huerta government. 
ANSWER: Venustiano  
Carranza 
127-12-58-1610-1 
BONUS: What disaster, a commonly cited example of resonance, affected a structure known as \"Galloping 
Gertie?\" 
ANSWER:  
collapse 
 of the  
Tacoma Narrows bridge 
066-12-58-1610-1 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2012 NHBB - Bowl Nationals     Round 16     Page  11 of 11 
