Colonia Tournament 
Round 2 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. This battle included the sinking of the  
Indefatigable 
 and  
Queen Mary 
. This battle is also known as the 
Battle of the Skagerrak (SKAH-gur-ak). One of the commanders at this battle was David Beatty. Beatty, 
along with John Jellico, faced the forces Germany's Reinhard Scheer, and this battle allowed the British to 
keep control of the North Sea. For 10 points, name this principal naval battle of World War I. 
ANSWER:  
Jutland 
 [or  
Skagerrak 
 before mentioned] 
030-10-14-02101 
2. This man's claim to succession was put above the rightful claim of Britannicus. This man was tutored by 
the philosopher Seneca. This man attempted to build a palace called the Golden House, which was to cover a 
third of Rome, and he was the target of Piso's Conspiracy. This man was the successor to Claudius, and this 
man had his mother Agrippina murdered. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor under whose rule Rome 
burned in 64 CE. 
ANSWER:  
Nero 
 Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus 
030-10-14-02102 
3. This writer compared the canals of Amsterdam to the circles of Hell in a novel about the Parisian defense 
lawyer Clamence. Besides writing The Fall, this author also wrote of Bernard Rieux working in the 
quarantined city of Oran during an epidemic. In another work by this author, Raymond is wounded with a 
knife, leading Mersault to shoot an Arab. For 10 points, name this French existentialist author of The Plague 
and The Stranger. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Camus 
036-10-14-02103 
4. The chloride of this element is used in Friedel-Crafts reactions. The first method of inexpensively 
purifying this element was discovered independently by Charles Hall and Paul Heroult (huh-ROO). Later, 
Karl Bayer developed a method to extract this metal directly from its chief ore, bauxite (BOX-ite). It is the 
only element along the Zintl (ZIN-tull) line that is not considered a semimetal. For 10 points, name this most 
common metal in the Earth's crust, whose light weight makes it ideal for use in foil and cans. 
ANSWER:  
aluminum 
 [or  
Al 
; or  
aluminium 
] 
003-10-14-02104 
5. This thinker's work was extended to form the Meyers-Briggs personality test. This man coined the terms 
\"introvert\" and \"extrovert\". In  
Psychological Types 
, this man posited the existence of the male animus and 
female anima forms of archetypes. For 10 points, name this German psychologist who broke with his teacher 
Freud and theorized that all humans share a collective unconscious. 
ANSWER: Carl Gustav  
Jung 
005-10-14-02105 
6. The Ripon Falls are a natural outlet of this lake, and the Kendu and Homa Bays lie in its Winam Gulf. 
Near the city of Jinja, the Owen Falls Dam, which creates the Nalubaale Power Station, regulates the 
primary outflow of this lake. Ukerewe Island is the largest island in this body of water, which also contains 
the Ssese Islands. The cities of Entebbe and Kampala lie on this lake, and it is the source of the White Nile. 
For 10 points, name this lake bordered by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, which is the largest lake in Africa. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Victoria 
 [prompt on  
White Nile 
 until \"lake\"] 
035-10-14-02106 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  1 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. A short work by this man features its protagonist gorging on fruit with his lover Brenda and is called 
\"Goodbye Columbus.\" This man's most famous novel is narrated by its protagonist to his therapist and 
includes stories about a woman he calls \"the Monkey\" and his tortured relationship with his mother, Sophie. 
.For 10 points, name this Jewish American author of novels about Coleman Silk, as well as  
Portnoy's 
Complaint 
. 
ANSWER: Philip  
Roth 
032-10-14-02107 
8. A method of solving systems of linear equations in matrix form is known as this man's namesake 
\"elimination,\" and that method was extended for putting a matrix into reduced row echelon form by Jordan. 
Another object named for this man follows the curve \"e to the quantity negative x squared over two, all over 
the square root of two pi.\" All distributions of repeated events converge to a form of that distribution 
according to the Central Limit Theorem, so it is also referred to as the Normal Distribution. For 10 points, 
name this German who also names two of Maxwell's equations. 
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich  
Gauss 
028-10-14-02108 
9. Harriet Robinson's case was merged with this case. Dissents in this case were written by Benjamin Curtis 
and John McLean. The original defendant in this case was John Emerson, who was sued after a journey from 
Missouri to Wisconsin. The decision in this case ruled the Missouri Compromise unconstitutional. For 10 
points, name this 1857 Supreme Court decision written by Chief Justice Roger Taney, which asserted that 
African-Americans lack the rights of citizenship. 
ANSWER:  
Dred  Scott  v. John F.A. Sanford 
 [or  
Dred Scott v. John F.A.  Sanford 
; or Dred  
Scott 
 case] 
038-10-14-02109 
10. One type of this construct transfers data on both the rising and falling edges of the clock signal and is 
known as the \"double data rate\" variety of this. One of the two most basic varieties of this item stores bits as 
the states of flip-flops while the other variety stores each bit in a unique capacitor. Coming in static and 
dynamic varieties, for 10 points, identify this volatile type of memory used for temporary data storage, often 
contrasted with read-only memory. 
ANSWER:  
RAM 
 [or  
random-access memory 
; prompt on  
memory 
; accept  
DRAM 
 or  
dynamic 
random-access memory 
 until \"flip-flops\" is read] 
029-10-14-02110 
11. One portion of this composition's final movement is a 6/8 march that includes a setting of the words 
\"Froh, wie seine Sonnen fliegen.\" That fourth movement is a theme and variations, that has vocalists singing 
text written by Friedrich Schiller. This was the first symphony to use a chorus, which sings \"Ode to Joy.\" 
For 10 points, name this last symphony written by Ludwig van Beethoven. 
ANSWER:  
Symphony 
 No.   by Ludwig van  
9 Beethoven 
 [or  
Choral 
 Symphony; or  
Beethoven's Ninth 
; or 
Symphony No.   after \"Beethoven\"] 
9 
032-10-14-02111 
12. One episode of this work sees a man shoot a baby water buffalo to shreds after the death of his close 
friend. One soldier featured in this book wears a pair of his girlfriend's pantyhose around his neck for good 
luck. Items in the title category include rifles, rations, guilt, and fear. For 10 points, name this book about a 
group of soldiers fighting in the Vietnam War, a work of Tim O'Brien titled for the objects the soldiers had 
with them. 
ANSWER:  
The  Things They Carried 
032-10-14-02112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  2 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. This poet described Nature as \"red in tooth and claw\" in an elegy written for Arthur Henry Hallam. This 
author wrote \"I hope to see my Pilot face to face\" in a poem that represents the journey of the soul after 
death with the image of a sailor \"crossing the bar.\" This author of Idylls of the King commemorated a tragic 
charge at the Battle of Balaclava with the lines \"half a league, half a league / half a league onward / all in the 
valley of death / rode the six hundred.\" For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of \"The Charge of the Light 
Brigade.\" 
ANSWER: Alfred, Lord  
Tennyson 
004-10-14-02113 
14. After threatening to abdicate, this ruler divided his territory into the zemshchina and a portion 
administered directly by him. This man created a guard for that portion which terrorized the country, the 
oprichniki. This man also called the first of his country's assemblies of the land, or zemsky sobors. This ruler 
accidentally killed his heir in a fit of rage. This man was the first to be given the title of tsar. For 10 points, 
name this ruler of Russia most famous for his torture and killing of many boyars. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan IV 
 of Russia [or  
Ivan the Terrible 
; or  
Ivan Grozny 
; or  
Ivan the Awesome 
 and 
equivalents] 
023-10-14-02114 
15. Toxicity of this substance can result in Minamata disease or acrodynia, which is also called \"pink 
disease.\" The ore of this metal is a birefringent mineral called cinnabar. Common uses for this element 
include cathode formation to produce chlorine and in liquid mirror scopes, although it is decreasingly used 
in thermometers. For 10 points, name this element, a metal that is liquid at room temperature, symbolized 
Hg. 
ANSWER:  
mercury 
 [or  
Hg 
 before it is read] 
032-10-14-02115 
16. This man's friends include the socialist Seneca Doane and a group known as \"the Bunch.\" This character 
travels to Maine with his best friend Paul Riesling. This man encourages his son Ted to elope with Eunice 
Littlefield after his wife Myra falls ill. This character who has an affair with Tanis Judique slips back into a 
life of conformity and conservatism at the end of the work in which he appears. He is a resident of the 
fictional locale of Zenith, Winnemac. For 10 points, name this titular real estate salesman of a novel by 
Sinclair Lewis. 
ANSWER: George Folansbee  
Babbitt 
025-10-14-02116 
17. One of these devices named for Persoz can measure a sample's hardness. The double type of this object 
is a classic example of chaotic behavior. A useful approximation when working with these objects involves 
assuming that \"sin theta equals theta.\" These objects have period approximately equal to \"two pi times the 
square root of quantity length over gravitational acceleration.\" These devices exhibit simple harmonic 
motion, and one of these was used to show the rotation of the earth by Leon Foucault. For 10 points, name 
these devices consisting of a weight suspended from a pivot. 
ANSWER:  
pendulum 
s 
028-10-14-02117 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  3 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. He dedicated his violin concerto to the virtuoso Joseph Joachim, [YOCK-eem] and Hans von Bulow 
criticized that work as being written \"against the violin.\" This man composed variations on themes by both 
Handel and Haydn. He wrote a setting of the mass for the dead using text from the Lutheran Bible. This man 
wrote a work quoting school songs and commemorating his reception of a degree from the University of 
Breslau. [BREZ-laoow] For 10 points, this is what composer of pieces like the  
German Requiem Academic 
,  
Festival Overture 
, and a lullaby? 
ANSWER: Johannes  
Brahms 
032-10-14-02118 
19. In this opera's second act, two armored men talk to the main character before he must face a test of fire 
and water. In this opera, the Moor Monostatos leads characters to the Temple after changing from the side of 
Sarastro, a priest of Isis and Osiris. The main character of this opera wakes up to see the feather-covered 
Papageno coming toward him, and those two characters are enlisted to save the Queen of the Night's 
daughter, Pamina. For 10 points, name this work in which Tamino is given the titular instrument, an opera 
composed by Mozart. 
ANSWER:  
The  Magic Flute 
 [or  
Die  Zauberflöte 
] 
023-10-14-02119 
20. Vitamin B12 or folate deficiency lead to the megaloblastic (MAY-guh-lo-BLAST-ic) type of this 
disease. Some genetic diseases cause overactivity of the spleen and so lead to this disorder. Misshapen red 
blood cells lead one variety of this disorder, and low iron intake leads to its most common definition. For 10 
points, name this illness, generally defined as a decrease in levels of hemoglobin or of red blood cells. 
ANSWER:  
anemia 
032-10-14-02120 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  4 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 2 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. This poem imagines reeling shadows of \"indignant desert birds.\" This poem begins by describing \"the 
widening gyre\" created by the \"turning and turning\" in flight of a falcon that \"cannot hear the falconer.\" One 
line of this poem notes \"the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.\" This 
poem also describes a \"rough beast\" that \"slouches towards Bethlehem to be born.\" For 10 points, name this 
poem that claims \"things fall apart,\" which was written by William Butler Yeats and titled after a Biblical 
apocalyptic event. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Second Coming 
\" 
033-10-14-02121 
2. In one song, this band says that \"We would shout and swim about the coral that lies beneath the waves,\" if 
they were at the titular location. A folk song by this band sees the title character lose a shootout with Dan. 
Another song by this band laments a preacher \"writing the words of a sermon that no one will hear,\" and 
asks where all the lonely people come from. A guitarist for this band wrote a song that repeatedly states, \"I 
don't want to leave her now.\" For 10 points, name this band originally from Liverpool, England, that sang 
\"Rocky Raccoon,\" \"Eleanor Rigby,\" and \"Something.\" 
ANSWER: The  
Beatles 
002-10-14-02122 
3. In one story by this author, Malandain accuses Hauchecorne of stealing a pocketbook. This author created 
George du Roy in  
Bel-Ami 
 and wrote of Rachel the Jewess killing a cruel German major in his story 
“Mademoiselle Fifi.” He also wrote a story in which a group of travelers in a stagecoach forces a prostitute 
to sleep with a Prussian officer. Mathilde Loisel works for years to pay for the loss of a jewel that turned out 
to be fake in another of his stories. For 10 points, name this author of “Ball of Fat” and “The Necklace.” 
ANSWER: Henry René Albert Guy de  
Maupassant 
034-10-14-02123 
4. Famous scientists who studied this phenomenon include Allen Pearson, who co-names the scale used to 
measure it. This phenomenon is divided into \"wedge\" and \"stovepipe\" varieties. This weather phenomenon 
leaves a so-called \"hook echo\" on radar and is associated with rear flank downdrafts in a supercell 
thunderstorm. It is measured on the Fujita Scale from 1 to 5. This phenomenon is common in an area called 
its \"alley,\" which includes the Great Plains and Midwest. For 10 points, name this weather phenomenon that 
produces high winds and a funnel cloud. 
ANSWER:  
tornado 
 [or  
twister 
] 
021-10-14-02124 
5. One component of these laws introduced French civil law and toleration of Catholics to a certain region. 
Another of these laws installed Thomas Gage as military governor, revoking the colonial charter of 
Massachussets. Other laws in this group required the quartering of troops in private homes and closed the 
port of Boston until payment was received for destroyed tea. For 10 points, name this set of four laws that 
were issued by the British cabinet in 1774 in response to the Boston Tea Party, and which American 
colonists could not bear obeying. 
ANSWER:  
Intolerable 
 Acts [or  
Coercive 
 Acts] 
019-10-14-02125 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  5 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. This substance activates its 5-HT receptors, and tyrosine (TY-ro-seen) is the metabolic precursor of this 
substance. It is released in the Raphe (RAW-fay) nuclei. Overdoses of this neurotransmitter 
(NUR-oh-\"TRANS\"-mitt-ur) can lead to high heart rate and muscle twitching, and this neurotransmitter's 
levels have been shown to increase with exercise. This substance's \"reuptake inhibitors\" include Zoloft and 
Prozac. For 10 points, name this neurotransmitter, low levels of which can cause depression. 
ANSWER:  
serotonin 
032-10-14-02126 
7. This dynasty was opposed by the Liao (LAO) in the north and their predecessors, the Jin, who sacked 
their capital of Bianjing (BYAN-JING). This dynasty made its last stand at the Battle of Yamen. This 
dynasty was founded by Zhao Kuangyin (kwang-YIN), or Emperor Taizu. This dynasty was the first to issue 
paper money. Technological advances during this dynasty included the first compass and the first use of 
gunpowder. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty which emerged from the Five Dynasties and Ten 
Kingdoms Period, and was defeated by the founder of the Yuan Dynasty, Kublai Khan. 
ANSWER:  
Song 
 Dynasty 
035-10-14-02127 
8. This religion’s texts include the  
Holy Piby 
, and one of this religion’s saints is Marcus Garvey. This 
religion advocates \"livity,\" which involves drumming ceremonies called bingis. This religion uses the 
vegetarian I-tal diet. Followers of this religion believe that they are captives in Babylon. This religion draws 
its name from the belief that Haile Selassie is the Second Coming of Christ. It promotes wearing the colors 
red, green, gold, and black, along with dreadlocks. For 10 points, name this Jamaican religion that advocates 
using ganja for meditation and was the inspiration for reggae music. 
ANSWER:  
Rasta 
farianism 
027-10-14-02128 
9. This figure disguised his wife as his sister in order to extort money from both a Pharaoh and Abimelech. 
This figure was blessed by Melchizedek (mel-KIZ-eh-deck), and this man sent Eliezer to his homeland to 
look for a bride for one of his sons. The younger of this man's two sons was born a year after his mother 
laughed at pair of visiting angels, while the elder was exiled into the desert with his mother Hagar. For 10 
points, name this first Jewish patriarch, husband of Sarah, and father of Ishmael and Isaac. 
ANSWER:  
Abraham 
 [or  
Avaraham 
; or  
Ibrahim 
] 
005-10-14-02129 
10. This play includes a scene in which the tale of a voodoo doll is told to Giles Corey by Ezekiel Cheever. 
In the fourth act of this play, the events leading to the condemnation of women like Elizabeth cannot be 
halted by Reverend Parris. All this occurs because of Abigail's attempts to seduce John Proctor while 
supposedly under the influence of the slave Tituba. For 10 points, name this play about the Salem Witch 
Trials, written by Arthur Miller. 
ANSWER:  
The  Crucible 
032-10-14-02130 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  6 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
1. Acrisius put this woman in a chest with her son and set the pair afloat, after a prophecy stated that this 
woman's son would kill Acrisius. 
[5] Name this princess of Argos, who was impregnated in her prison by a stream of gold and thus gave birth 
to Perseus. 
ANSWER:  
Danae 
[10] The stream of gold was actually this promiscuous Greek god. He also took the form of a swan to 
impregnate Leda, and impersonated Amphitryon to father Heracles. 
ANSWER:  
Zeus 
 [do not accept \"Jupiter\"] 
[15] This woman's brother Cadmus failed to find her after she was taken to Crete by Zeus in the form of a 
white bull. She became the mother of Minos and Rhadamanthys (RAD-uh-MAN-thiss). 
ANSWER:  
Europa 
[20] After ceasing his wanderings, Cadmus created the \"spartoi,\" the original army and citizens of Thebes, 
by sowing these items in the Earth. 
ANSWER:  
dragon's teeth 
 [prompt on partial answer; accept obvious equivalents] 
019-10-14-02101 
2.  
The Romance of the Three Kingdoms 
 and  
The Outlaws of the Marsh 
 are among the classic novels of this 
country. 
[5] Name this country, whose twentieth-century literary figures included Lu Xun (LOO SHUN), the author 
of such short stories as \"The True Story of Ah Q.\" 
ANSWER: People's Republic of  
China 
[10] Because the protagonist is born with a jade in his mouth, this classic Chinese novel is sometimes called  
The Story of the Stone. 
 It is the story of Jia Baoyu, who has an affair with the Twelve Beauties of Jinling and 
falls in love with Black Jade. 
ANSWER:  
Dream of the Red Chamber 
 [or  
Hung Lou Meng 
] 
[15] The 2000 Nobel Prize went to this Chinese-born French citizen, who wrote about his walk down the 
Yangtze in  
Soul Mountain 
. He had previously attracted the attention of Chinese censors for his political play  
Bus Stop. 
ANSWER:  
Gao 
 Xingjian 
[20] Inspired by minor characters in  
Outlaws of the Marsh 
, this explicit Chinese novel follows an amoral 
merchant who is in search of a fifth and sixth wife. 
ANSWER:  
The  Golden Lotus 
 [or  
The  Plum in the Golden Vase 
; or any reasonable answer that mentions 
something  
gold 
en; or  
Jin Ping Mei 
] 
034-10-14-02102 
3. This student of Perugino painted the  
Madonna of the Goldfinch 
. 
[5] Name this High Renaissance painter who also created the  
Stanzae 
 for the Papal apartments and  
The 
School of Athens. 
ANSWER:  
Raphael 
 Sanzio [or  
Raffaello 
] 
[10] Raphael did many commissions for this Pope, whose unfinished tomb contains many statues by 
Michelangelo. 
ANSWER:  
Julius II 
 [or Giuliano della  
Rovere 
; prompt on  
Julius 
] 
[15] Raphael's unfinished  
Transfiguration 
 marked the transition from the High Renaissance to this period, 
marked by the use of bright colors, broadly drawn emotion, and weightless, elongated figures. 
ANSWER:  
Mannerism 
 [or  
Mannerist 
 painting, etc] 
[20] Another key Mannerist work is this depiction of the four title figures along with some Greek dramatic 
masks. It was painted by Bronzino and is also known as  
Allegory of Love. 
ANSWER:  
Venus, Cupid, Folly, and Time 
026-10-14-02103 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  7 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Name these things that may be conserved in reactions. 
[5] In an elastic collision, both linear momentum and this other quantity are conserved. 
ANSWER:  
kinetic energy 
 [prompt on  
energy 
] 
[10] Much like Kirchoff's loop rule is derived from the law of conservation of energy; his junction rule is 
derived from the law of conservation of [i]this[/i] quantity. 
ANSWER: electric  
charge 
[15] In radioactive decay, the law of conservation of nucleon number states that protons and these subatomic 
particles can change into each other, but their total number remains the same. 
ANSWER:  
neutron 
s 
[20] The Grand Unified Theory permits the violation of the conservation of this number, which is one-third 
of the difference of the number of quarks and antiquarks. Its namesake particle is always composed of three 
quarks. 
ANSWER:  
baryon 
 number 
003-10-14-02104 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  8 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 2 
Four 10-Part Team Rounds 
THE LETTER L 
THE LETTER F 
OPERA 
TINY, SMALL, SHORT 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  9 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE LETTER L 
[10] This poet penned the work engrave on The Statue of Liberty’s pedestal, “The New Colossus.” 
ANSWER: Emma  
Lazarus 
[10] Gaston Leroux is best known for creating this fictional character, who haunts a certain Parisian theater. 
ANSWER:  
Phantom of the Opera 
[10] This order of insects includes butterflies and moths. 
ANSWER:  
Lepidoptera 
[10] This Dutch physicist won the 1902 Nobel Prize for his work with Zeeman describing the Zeeman 
Effect. 
ANSWER: Hendrik  
Lorentz 
[10] Along with Richard Loeb, this prep student murdered a 14-year-old in 1924 as part of a thrill killing. 
ANSWER: Nathan  
Leopold 
 Jr. 
[10] Give the name and number of the French king canonized for his religiosity. 
ANSWER:  
Louis IX 
[10]  
The Love for Three Oranges 
 is an opera by this Russian composer of  
Peter and the Wolf 
. 
ANSWER: Sergei  
Prokofiev 
[10] In Greek myth, Laocoon was a priest who warned a certain city not to accept this dangerous gift from 
the Greek armies. 
ANSWER:  
Trojan Horse 
[10] This Beatles song inspired the name for the famous Australopithecus skeleton found in Ethiopia. 
ANSWER: “ 
Lucy, in the Sky With Diamonds” 
[10] Wikipedia says Lucy is an elephant living in the zoo at this capital city of Alberta. 
ANSWER:  
Edmonton 
052-10-14-0210-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  10 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE LETTER F 
[10] This unelected president pardoned Nixon and was born Leslie Lynch King Jr. 
ANSWER: Gerald Rudolph  
Ford 
 Jr. 
[10] This enlightened despot of Prussia served between Frederick William I and Frederick William II. 
ANSWER:  
Frederick the Great 
 [or  
Frederick II 
; or  
Frederick IVof Brandenburg 
; accept with  
Friedrich 
 instead of \"Frederick\"; prompt on  
Frederick 
] 
[10] This poem by Edmund Spenser is an allegory for the life of Elizabeth I, and includes characters like 
Una and the Red Crosse Knight. 
ANSWER:  
The  Fairie Queen 
[10] This American author wrote the  
Studs Lonigan 
 trilogy. 
ANSWER: James Thomas  
Farrell 
[10] This is the SI unit of capacitance. 
ANSWER: the  
farad 
[10] Carbon nanotubes and \"bucky balls\" are examples of these allotropes of carbon. 
ANSWER:  
fullerene 
s [or Buckminster  
fullerene 
s] 
[10] This French Rococo artist showed a man looking up a woman's skirt as she is pushed into the air in his  
The Swing 
. 
ANSWER: Jean-Honore  
Fragonard 
[10] This symphony by Hector Berlioz includes a fourth movement called \"March to the Scaffold.\" 
ANSWER:  
Symphonie  Fantastique 
 [or  
Fantastic  Symphony 
] 
[10] This Norse goddess of love lives in Folkvangr. 
ANSWER:  
Freya 
 [or  
Freyja 
; do not accept \"Frigg\" or \"Frigga\"] 
[10] This is the old name of Taiwan and the Strait of Taiwan. 
ANSWER:  
Formosa 
 [or Strait of  
Formosa 
] 
026-10-14-0210-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  11 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
OPERA 
[10]  
William Tell 
 is an opera about a hero from this country. Name this country made up of cantons. 
ANSWER:  
Switzerland 
[10] Name this common title for a leader in Venice and other parts of Italy, whose first holder in Genoa was 
depicted in  
Simon Boccanegra 
. 
ANSWER:  
doge 
s 
[10] This author's play  
Le Roi S'amuse 
 was the basis for  
Rigoletto 
. Name this author who also wrote  
The 
Hunchback of Notre Dame 
. 
ANSWER: Victor  
Hugo 
[10] Name the literary title character depicted in operas by both Verdi and Rossini who is married to 
Desdemona in a work by Shakespeare. 
ANSWER:  
Othello 
 [or  
Otello 
] 
[10] What compound created from the oxidation of a primary alcohol was studied by the Russian chemist 
and composer Aleksandr Borodin? 
ANSWER:  
aldehyde 
s 
[10] Name the German who composed an opera about the delivery of a silver rose in  
Der Rosenkavalier 
 as 
well as an opera about the mythological  
Elektra 
. 
ANSWER: Richard Georg  
Strauss 
[10] What city is depicted being conquered in  
Nabucco 
, which shows the destruction of this city's temple by 
Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonian captivity. 
ANSWER:  
Jerusalem 
[10] Name the island ruled by the title character in  
Idomeneo 
, which island was the site of a labyrinth 
holding the Minotaur during its rule under King Minos. 
ANSWER:  
Crete 
[10] Give the name of the Russian river used by the title character of Leos Janacek's  
Katya Kabanova 
 to kill 
herself, which is also the longest river in Europe. 
ANSWER:  
Volga 
 River 
[10] Name the character whose story was adapted in  
La Cenerentola 
, which replaced this character's 
stepmother with Don Magnifico and her fairy godmother with the philosopher Alidoro. 
ANSWER:  
Cinderella 
023-10-14-0210-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  12 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
TINY, SMALL, SHORT 
[10] What nation of little people takes offense when Gulliver urinates on their royal palace to put out a fire? 
ANSWER:  
Lilliput 
[10] In March 2010 the Royal College of Music in London held a contest to see whether anyone could play 
what short Frederic Chopin waltz in what some believe to be its namesake time period? 
ANSWER:  
Minute  Waltz 
[10] One gram is equal to 6.02 times ten to the twenty-third of what units, which are sometimes also called 
Daltons and are equal to one-twelfth the mass of carbon-12? 
ANSWER:  
atomic mass unit 
s [or  
amu 
s] 
[10] What then-country lost the shortest war in history, which lasted less than 45 minutes? It was later 
merged with Tanganyika to form a different country. 
ANSWER:  
Zanzibar 
[10] What smallest country in the world has zero permanent inhabitants and is entirely surrounded by the 
city of Rome? 
ANSWER: State of the  
Vatican City 
 [or The  
Holy See 
; or Stato della  
Citta del Vaticano 
; or  
Santa Sede 
] 
[10] Name the items that a six-word Ernest Hemingway story claims are \"For sale...never used.\" 
ANSWER:  
baby shoes 
 [prompt on  
shoes 
] 
[10] Who gave the longest inaugural address in U.S. history? He spoke out in the cold so long that he caught 
pneumonia and died a month afterwards, giving him the shortest presidency as well. 
ANSWER:  illiam Henry  
W Harrison 
 [prompt on  
Harrison 
] 
[10] What artistic movement of painting using a series of small dots was practiced by Paul Signac and 
Georges Seurat? 
ANSWER:  
pointillism 
[10] What small neutral particle was hypothesized to exist by Wolfgang Pauli and discovered by Clyde 
Cowan and Fred Reines? 
ANSWER:  
neutrino 
[10] What work of philosophy claims that a \"war of every man against every man\" would render life 
\"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short\"? 
ANSWER:  
Leviathan , or the Matter, Forme, and Power of a Commonwealth, Ecclesiasticall and Civil 
003-10-14-0210-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  13 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 2 
12 20-Point Tossups 
1. Due to support from two separate parties, one candidate in this election had both Thomas E. Watson and 
Arthur Sewall as running mates. The winner in this election employed campaign manager Mark Hanna. That 
winner of this election successfully ran a \"front porch campaign,\" opting not to travel. The Democratic 
nominee argued against about putting a \"crown of thorns\" on the \"brow of labor\" in a speech supporting free 
silver, the Cross of Gold speech. For 20 points, name this election in which William Jennings Bryan lost to 
William McKinley. 
ANSWER:  
1896 
 United States Presidential Election 
028-10-14-02101 
2. One author from this nation wrote an epic poem about the voyage of Vasco da Gama to India. Another 
author from this country wrote a novel in which a doctor's wife is the only character not afflicted by a 
mysterious epidemic that causes people only to see the color white. This country is home to the author of  
The Lusiads 
, Camoes, and the author of  
Blindness 
, Jose Saramago. For 20 points, name this European 
country whose name titles a sequence of forty-four love sonnets by Elizabeth Barrett Browning. 
ANSWER:  
Portugal 
022-10-14-02102 
3. The success of fractional distillation relies on solutions for which this law holds. Liquids that conform to 
this law are called perfect solutions. Deviations from this law occur when mixtures are nonideal and 
nonbinary, and liquids deviating from this law form azeotropes (AY-zee-oh-\"TROPES\"). For 20 points, 
name this law that states that the vapor pressure of a solution is equal to the products of the partial pressure 
of each component of the solution and its mole fraction. 
ANSWER:  
Raoult 
's Law 
032-10-14-02103 
4. An event in this city in 1968 led to the arrest of Luis Echeverria (eh-chee-VEHR-ee-uh) Alvarez in 2006. 
That event in this city was named the Tlatelolco (tLAT-eh-LOH-koh) Massacre. In 1913, this city was the 
site of The Ten Tragic Days during its country's civil war. This city was captured by the forces of Augustin 
Iturbide (ee-tuhr-BEE-day) in 1821. In 1520, La Noche Triste occurred at the location of this present-day 
city and resulted in a major defeat for Hernan Cortez. For 20 points, name this city that is located on the site 
of the Aztec capital Tenochitlan (teh-KNOCK-tuh-lin). 
ANSWER:  
Mexico City 
 [or  
Ciudad de Mexico 
] 
030-10-14-02104 
5. This organ is divided into the scala media, scala tympani, and scala vestibuli (ves-TIB-you-lee). 
Vibrations on the basilar membrane in this structure are transduced into electrical stimuli by this organ's 
inner hair cells, which are located in the Organ of Corti (CORE-tee). This organ is snail-shaped organ For 20 
points, name this organ responsible for the sense of hearing. 
ANSWER:  
cochlea 
 [or  
inner ear 
 before mentioned] 
003-10-14-02105 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  14 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One of this author's characters has a custody battle with Madeleine over their daughter June. That 
character created by this author writes unsent letters to such people as President Eisenhower. This author of  
Humboldt’s Gift 
 and  
Herzog 
 wrote a book in which Eugene visits the Wariri tribe and leaves Africa with a 
lion cub. Another of this author's books is a picaresque tale of a Chicago Jew who is the brother of Simon 
and Georgie and serves in World War II. For 20 points, name this author of  
Henderson the Rain King 
 and  
The Adventures of Augie March 
. 
ANSWER: Saul  
Bellow 
 [or Solomon  
Bellows 
] 
027-10-14-02106 
7. One of these conflicts was incited by the surprise at Meaux, which followed the Edict of St. Germain. One 
of the namesake figures of one war in this series was the Duke of Guise, one of the \"Three Henrys.\" 
Catherine de Medici ordered one brutal occurrence during this series of conflicts. These conflicts were ended 
by Henry IV's conversion to Catholicism. For 20 points, name this series of 16th-century wars, which 
included the St. Barthlomew's Day Massacre, between Huguenots and Catholics. 
ANSWER: French  
Wars of Religion 
038-10-14-02107 
8. In this work, a Nigerian considers straightening hair to be \"mutilation.\" Mrs. Johnson pays an unwelcome 
visit to Mama and describes a bombing in this play. George Murchison courts Beneatha in this work, who 
prefers Asagai. In this play, Mr. Lindner tries to dissuade a family from moving. Willy Harris runs off with 
money invested in a liquor store in this work. This play ends with Walter Lee's family moving into a white 
neighborhood. For 20 points, name this play about the Younger family. 
ANSWER:  
A  Raisin in the Sun 
 (by Lorraine Hansberry) 
036-10-14-02108 
9. Although this television show was based on a Robert Sawyer book, the only character the two have in 
common is Lloyd Simcoe, who works for CERN in the book but the NLAP on TV. Simcoe has a vision that 
in six months he will be with Olivia Benford in, for 20 points, what ABC show that stars Joseph Fiennes as 
Olivia's husband Mark and John Cho as Demetri Noh, an FBI agent who does not experience the title 
phenomenon? 
ANSWER:  
Flashforward 
003-10-14-02109 
10. A \"bidirectional\" variation of this algorithm passes through the list twice per iteration and is also called 
\"shuttle\" or \"cocktail,\" and \"odd-even\" sort is a parallel-processing optimized alteration; the first method 
eliminates the problem of small elements at the big-element end, which are called \"turtles\" since they 
uniquely must travel the full length of the list. For 20 points, name this naïve big-oh-of-n-squared sorting 
algorithm, in which repeated passes are made swapping adjacent out-of-order elements, such that the small 
elements float to the top. 
ANSWER:  
bubble 
 sort 
022-10-14-02110 
11. One of her sons, Parthenopaeus (PAR-then-o-PAY-us), was one of the Seven Against Thebes. This 
figure and her husband were turned into lions after making love in the shrine of Cybele. She was suckled by 
a bear as a child. She offered to marry anyone who could outrace her, but killed anyone she passed. This 
figure lost a race to Hippomenes by stopping three times to pick up the golden apples of the Hesperides. For 
20 points, name this huntress from who took first blood from the Caldydonian Boar. 
ANSWER:  
Atalanta 
030-10-14-02111 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  15 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. Three fortissimo chords open one of this type of composition in C sharp minor, one of the most famous 
works of Rachmaninoff. One of these in D by Frederic Chopin is nicknamed the \"Raindrop,\" and Chopin 
wrote one for every major and minor key. J.S. Bach wrote two volumes of  
The Well-Tempered Clavier 
containing fugues paired with these compositions, and Debussy composed one \"to the Afternoon of a Faun.\" 
For 20 points, name this type of short composition. 
ANSWER:  
prelude 
032-10-14-02112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  16 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 2 
Tiebreakers 
1. This thinker described the beautiful, agreeable, good, and sublime types of the titular action in one work. 
This man distinguished between analytic and synthetic propositions and put forth the possibility of a priori 
knowledge in his most famous work. This author of  
Critique of Judgement 
 outlined an ethical rule based in 
duty that states that every moral question has an absolute answer that must be followed. For 10 points, name 
this German Idealist philosopher who wrote  
Critique of Pure Reason 
 and formulated the Categorical 
Imperative. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
005-10-14-02131 
2. The vastus intermedius (VASS-tuss in-tur-MEE-dee-us) attaches to the linea aspera (LIN-ee-uh 
ass-PAIR-uh) on the posterior surface of this bone. Its lateral epicondyle (EP-uh-KON-\"dial\") attaches to 
both the popliteus (POP-lih-TEE-us) muscle and the fibular (FIB-you-lur) collateral ligament, while the 
medial epicondyle (EP-uh-KON-\"dial\") joins with the tibial collateral ligament. A broken hip is caused by a 
break in not the pelvis but this other bone. For 10 points, name this bone of the thigh, the longest bone in the 
body. 
ANSWER:  
femur 
 [prompt on  
thighbone 
 before \"thigh\"] 
003-10-14-02132 
3. This President was nicknamed \"Ice Veins\" because of his cold personality. This man helped settle a 
boundary dispute between Great Britain and Venezuela. One controversial bill signed by this President gave 
disability pensions to veterans even if their injury was not from combat. This man worked with the \"Billion 
Dollar Congress\" and signed the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, the Sherman Silver Purchase Act, and the 
McKinley Tariff. For 10 points, name this President, the grandson of William Henry Harrison. 
ANSWER:  enjamin  
B Harrison 
 [prompt on  
Harrison 
] 
021-10-14-02133 
Colonia Tournament     Round 2     Page  17 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
