VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 12 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The protagonist of this poem cries out, “O, shrieve me, shrieve me, holy man!” when he is discovered by 
a hermit. This poem ends by describing a character who rose the next day “a sadder and a wiser man.” This 
poem describes “water, water, everywhere, nor any drop to drink” as a curse begins to be enacted. The 
central narrative is recounted to the Wedding-Guest by the title figure. For 10 points, name this ballad 
whose title character shoots an albatross, a poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. 
ANSWER: “The  
Rime of the Ancient Mariner 
” 
014-12-71-12101 
2. The inflammation of one region of this body part is called plantar fasciitis. Amoebas create an extension 
of their cell named for this body part that can surround food or be used for locomotion. In humans, this 
body part contains the metatarsals. The phylum Gastropoda is named for the Greek for stomach and this 
body part. For 10 points, identify this body part found below the ankle in humans that is the measure of 
distance in the Imperial system. 
ANSWER:  
foot 
066-12-71-12102 
3. A pair of members of this profession engage in nuclear disarmament negotiations that involve playing 
Risk and Trivial Pursuit in one movie about a pair of these individuals “....Like Us.” George Lazenby is 
most famous for playing a member of this profession in only one movie. A member of this profession is a 
colleague of Vanessa Kensington and Basil Exposition and has enemies that include Frau Farbissina and 
the Fembots. For 10 points, name this profession, a member of which has been played by Roger Moore and 
Sean Connery and is James Bond. 
ANSWER:  
Spy 
 or  
spies 
 [accept reasonable equivalents, including secret agents] 
030-12-71-12103 
4. This author created a restaurant that contains free coupons owned by George Kroll in  
The Black Obelisk. 
In a different work by this author, a former drill sergeant is berated by the protagonist before being made 
staff cook. That character is named Himmelstoss. Throughout that work by this author, the protagonist and 
his friends, such as Tjaden, are mentored by Kat. This author is most famous for a work about Paul 
Baumer’s experience during World War I. For 10 points, name this German author of  
All Quiet on the 
Western Front. 
ANSWER: Erich Maria  
Remarque 
149-12-71-12104 
5. In a system of small volume, this quantity can be calculated using Kundt's tube, and one person to 
attempt to calculate this quantity was William Derham. The Newton-Laplace equation states that this 
quantity equals the square root of bulk modulus over density, and another formula states that, in air, it can 
be calculated as 0.606 times the temperature plus 331.3. It is equal to about 768 miles per hour, or 343 
meters per second. For 10 points, identify this quantity which is equal to Mach 1. 
ANSWER:  
speed of sound 
 [accept early buzz of  
Mach 1 
] 
189-12-71-12105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  1 of 9 
6. This poet’s sonnets include one beginning, “Fly, fly, my friends, I have my death wound, fly!” He 
asked, “Are beauties there as proud as here they be?” in another sonnet that begins by noting “with how 
sad steps, O Moon, thou climb’st the skies!” He also wrote a prose romance which provided plot elements 
for  
The Winter’s Tale 
 and  
King Lear. 
 For 10 points, name this noble Elizabethan poet of  
Astrophil and 
Stella 
 and  
Arcadia. 
ANSWER: Philip  
Sidney 
014-12-71-12106 
7. In an octahedral compound, this many molecules of ethylene diamine can bind to the central cation. 
Chromium ions with this oxidation state exhibit a green color. The reaction of nitric oxide and oxygen gas 
is a common example of a reaction of this numbered order. Phosphoric acid has this many equivalence 
points, while boron and aluminum have this oxidation number. Tritium has an atomic mass of this number, 
and there are this many quarks in a proton and neutron. For 10 points, name this number, the atomic 
number of lithium. 
ANSWER:  
three 
 [accept  
plus three 
 or  
three plus 
; do not accept “three minus”] 
140-12-71-12107 
8. This man defeated his rival Licinius at the battle of Chrysopolis. This man's army carried symbols 
unfamiliar to the enemy when he won a victory over Maxentius at the Milvian Bridge after envisioning the 
words \"in hoc signo vinces.\" That dream and accompanying victory caused him to issue his Edict of Milan 
that mandated religious toleration throughout the Empire. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor who 
converted to Christianity on his deathbed. 
ANSWER:  
Constantine 
 the Great [or  
Constantine 
 I; or Flavius Valerius  
Constantinus 
] 
153-12-71-12108 
9. During World War II, this man got his soldiers to safety after the sinking of PT 109. This man first got 
into the Senate by unseating Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. This president signed the Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty 
with the Soviet Union and promoted a set of policies called the \"New Frontier.\" In his inaugural address, 
this President declared, \"Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.\" 
For 10 points, name this first and only Catholic president, who was killed by Lee Harvey Oswald in 1963. 
ANSWER: John Fitzgerald  
Kennedy 
 [or  
JFK 
] 
080-12-71-12109 
10. The namesake parameter, or frequency, associated with this effect is proportional to the sine of latitude. 
When the pressure gradient force of a substance is balanced by this effect, the substance is termed 
\"geostrophic.\" One structure that forms due to this effect is the Ekman spiral. This effect results in the 
apparent deflection of a moving object in a rotating reference frame. For 10 points, identify this fictitious 
force that results in deflection to the right in the Northern Hemisphere and to the left in the Southern. 
ANSWER:  
Coriolis 
 effect [or  
Coriolis 
 force] 
066-12-71-12110 
11. This country's Gandaki River flows through the deepest gorge in the world; its other two major rivers 
are the Kosi and the Karnali. In this country, the Outer Terai region ends at the Sivalik Hills. This country 
still supplies the British army with  
khukhuri 
-wielding soldiers called \"gurkhas.\" This country is home to the 
Sherpa ethnic group, including Tenzing Norgay, who assisted Edmund Hillary. For 10 points, name this 
landlocked nation in-between India and China where Mount Everest is located. 
ANSWER: Democratic Republic of  
Nepal 
080-12-71-12111 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  2 of 9 
12. This organization created the Fourth New Army and the Eight Route Army. This party held the 7,000 
cadres conference to deal with the unexpected criticism arising from the Hundred Flowers campaign, which 
this party launched. This party resisted the Extermination Campaigns before it moved its base of operations 
to Yan'an during the Long March. This party defeated Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang. For 10 points, 
name this party that established the People's Republic of China under Mao Zedong. 
ANSWER:  
Communist 
 Party of China [or Chinese  
Communist 
 Party; or  
CCP 
; or  
CPC 
; or Zhongguo  
Gongchan 
dang; or Chungkuo  
Kungch'an 
tang; or Chinese  
Communist 
s] 
153-12-71-12112 
13. The Rop protein regulates the concentration of the coLE1 example of these objects. These biological 
objects can be isolated through miniprep. BACs are large examples of these objects used in genomic 
libraries. The F example of these can be generated through recombinational excision in HFR strains of  
 E. 
coli 
. The R type of these objects contain antibiotic resistance genes and they can be transferred through 
conjugation. For 10 points, name these small circular pieces DNA found in bacteria that are that replicate 
independently from the bacteria's main chromosome. 
ANSWER:  
plasmid 
 [or  
episome 
; prompt on  
DNA 
; prompt on bacterial  
chromosome 
s] 
001-12-71-12113 
14. The title character of this work performs in a play called  
The Enchanted Hunters, 
 which is written by 
Vivian Darkbloom and the man whom her father-in-law later murders. The title character is abandoned by 
Clare Quilty for refusing to make pornographic films and is taken away from camp after her mother 
Charlotte is killed by a car. For 10 points, name this novel about Humbert Humbert’s infatuation with the 
adolescent Dolores Haze, who bears the title nickname, a work by Vladimir Nabokov. 
ANSWER:  
Lolita 
014-12-71-12114 
15. A logic circuit that conducts this operation consists of two inputs put into an XOR and AND gate. This 
operation can be easily performed on vectors by using the parallelogram rule. When this operation is 
performed on two rational numbers of the form a over b and c over d, it yields a d plus b c over b d. A 
series is defined using a capital sigma, which represents repeated applications of this operation. The 
identity element for this operation is zero. For 10 points, identify this mathematical operation represented 
with a plus sign. 
ANSWER:  
addition 
066-12-71-12115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 12 
Directed Round 
1A.  Name this English painter whose depictions of the Stour River area include  
Dedham Vale 
 and  
The Hay 
Wain 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Constable 
1B. What midwestern city is found north of the River des Peres and is home to the Gateway Arch? 
ANSWER:  
St. Louis 
, Missouri 
2A.  Galileo rolled balls down an inclined plane in an attempt to determine what physical constant? 
ANSWER:   [or the  
g acceleration due to gravity 
; or  
standard gravity 
; do not accept \"Big G\"] 
2B.  Plumpy, Gramma Nutt, and Queen Frostine are characters in what board game that includes locales 
such as Lollipop Woods and Gumdrop Mountains? 
ANSWER:  
Candy Land 
3A.  What author of  
Player Piano 
 and  
Breakfast of Champions 
 used recurring characters such as painter 
Rabo Karabekian and science fiction novelist Kilgore Trout in his books? 
ANSWER: Kurt  
Vonnegut 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the measure, in degrees, of an exterior angle of a 
regular pentagon? 
ANSWER:   degrees 
72 
4A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the domain of the function f of x equals the square 
root of 2x - 8? 
ANSWER: all real numbers  
greater than or equal to 4 
4B.  What author wrote about Edmond Dantes's escape from jail and the adventures of d'Artagnan 
(dar-TAN-yan) in his novels  
The Count of Monte-Cristo 
 and  
The Three Musketeers 
? 
ANSWER: Alexandre  
Dumas 
 (doo-MAH) 
5A.  Name this Pablo Picasso painting in which two of the five title prostitutes from Barcelona wear 
African masks. 
ANSWER:  
Les  Demoiselles d'Avignon 
 [or  
The  Young Ladies of Avignon 
] 
5B.  What physical law governs the behavior of springs and states that force is equal to the negative 
product of a constant and the displacement? 
ANSWER:  
Hooke's 
 law 
6A. What NFL team with receivers Darrius Heyward-Bey and Denarius Moore played through the 2011 
death of the team's long-time owner, Al Davis? 
ANSWER:  
Oakland Raiders 
   (accept city or team name) 
6B.  What term is popularly used to describe a large predicted reduction in the federal budget deficit 
beginning in 2013 that will occur if certain tax and spending laws are allowed to expire or go into effect? 
ANSWER:  
fiscal cliff 
 [prompt on “sequestrations”] 
7A.  Name the early June 1942 battle in the Pacific at which American forces defeated a Japanese carrier 
group despite the sinking of the  
Yorktown 
. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Midway 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  4 of 9 
7B. What composer of operas created  
The Mastersingers of Nuremberg 
 and all four parts of  
The Ring 
cycle? 
ANSWER: Wilhelm Richard  
Wagner 
8A.  Prokofiev's first symphony pays homage to what era of music, situated between the Baroque and 
Romantic eras? 
ANSWER:  
Classical 
 era 
8B.  What type of graph shows all maximum outputs available for two or more goods, such as guns and 
butter, using a given set of inputs. 
ANSWER:  
production possibility 
 frontier [or  
PPF 
; accept reasonable equivalents, including  
production 
possibility 
 curve or  
production possibility 
 boundary] 
9A.  What word, also a punctuation mark, refers to when a literary character addresses their speech to an 
figure or person that is imaginary or not present? 
ANSWER:  
apostrophe 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If the cosine of x is equal to 1/4, what is the cosine of 2x? 
ANSWER:  
-7/8 
 [or  
.875 
] 
10A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Four fair coins are flipped. Find the probability that there 
are the same number of heads as tails. 
ANSWER:  
3/8 
 [or  
6/16 
; or 0 
.375 
] 
10B.  Give the name for the set of beliefs, which begins with \"existence is suffering\" and ends with \"the 
Eightfold Path is the route to nirvana,\" which form the core dogma of Buddhism. 
ANSWER: the  
Four Noble Truths 
 [or  
Chattariariyasaccani 
; or  
Chatvariaryasatyani 
] 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 12 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister Berchtold implied that this regular patron of the Cafe Central in 
Vienna would never be a significant leader. This man led the forces at Polkovo that defeated Alexander 
Kerensky. This leader of the Fourth International argued for Permanent Revolution rather than the policy of 
\"Socialism in One Country.\" That position led to this man being exiled to Mexico, where he was killed with 
an ice axe. For 10 points, name this founder of the Red Army and rival of Stalin. 
ANSWER: Leon  
Trotsky 
 [or Lev Davidovich  
Bronshtein 
] 
153-12-71-12117 
2. In Japan, these items are \"kutsushita,\" and in Arabic they are \"jawrab.\" While they are called \"peyga\" in 
Portuguese, they are called by the unrelated term \"calcetines\" in Spanish. In English, this term is derived 
through German from Latin and ultimately Greek, where it referred to a shoe typical of comedic actors. For 
10 points, give this word which refers to a type of punch thrown in such comedies or to a garment worn 
under the shoes. 
ANSWER:  
sock 
s 
019-12-71-12118 
3. One work in this language features a character who rejects a scimitar and other weapons because they are 
too light. That work's title character is placed under a five-peaked mountain prior to going on a journey 
with Pigsy and Tripitaka. The Monkey King is one character in  
Journey to the West, 
 which one of this 
language's “Four Classic Novels.” For 10 points, name this language that was used  
Romance of the Three 
Kingdoms, 
 which was written by Luo Guanzhong. 
ANSWER:  
Chinese 
149-12-71-12119 
4. Frank J. Sprague designed an electric trolley system for this city, the first in the United States to have 
one. 62 women in this city were killed by an explosion at the Tredegar Iron Works. The Seven Days Battles 
took place during a campaign to capture this city. Retreating soldiers set fire to this city in response to the 
Battle of Petersburg. This city was the headquarters for Jefferson Davis and his cabinet. For 10 points, 
name this capital of the Confederate States of America. 
ANSWER:  
Richmond 
080-12-71-12120 
5. Fixed point combinators can be used to implement this concept anonymously. Lazy evaluation means 
this concept can be used to create lists whose values are generated only as they are needed, and data types 
often defined using this concept include linked lists and trees. The \"tail\" variety can be optimized and it's 
commonly illustrated with the Towers of Hanoi or the factorial function. Often defined using one or more 
base cases, for 10 points, name this computer science technique wherein a function calls itself. 
ANSWER:  
recursion 
 [or  
recursive 
 functions; or word forms] 
201-12-71-12121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  6 of 9 
6. Characters in this work include a physician who imagines he is being hunted by a lynch mob and a 
farmer who thinks of himself as a Biblical figure appointed by God. In addition to Doctor Parcival and 
Jesse Bentley, this novel features an ex-schoolteacher accused of molesting a male student named Wing 
Biddlebaum and a young reporter linking many of the stories together named George Willard. For 10 
points, name this novel by Sherwood Anderson set in the title Midwest town. 
ANSWER:  
Winesburg, Ohio 
014-12-71-12122 
7. The interstellar medium contains a diffuse form of this substance that is responsible for absorbing optical 
and UV radiation and reradiating it as far-infrared. The Jovian ring system is mostly made of this 
substance. A haboob is a type of storm named for this substance. Black-lung disease results from breathing 
in the coal and graphite forms of this substance. For 10 points, years of drought and destructive agricultural 
practices created a \"bowl\" named for what word in the southern Great Plains? 
ANSWER:  
dust 
066-12-71-12123 
8. This practice is named after a judge in colonial Virginia who presided over trials of Loyalists during the 
Revolution. The Dyer Bill was introduced to prevent this practice, documented in  
The Red Record 
 by Ida 
B. Wells. Emmet Till was the victim of one of these events. These events were the inspiration for the song 
\"Strange Fruit\" by Billie Holiday. These events were defended as a method of protecting white women and 
symbolized by nooses hanging from trees. For 10 points, name these instances of mob violence by whites 
against African-Americans. 
ANSWER:  
lynch 
ings 
080-12-71-12124 
9. A longtime employee of this company known as \"Mr. Fixit\" received keys to patient rooms while 
chairing a task force on the management of Broadmoor Psychiatric Hospital. This organization inaccurately 
implied that politician Alistair McAlpine had abused children in care homes; thus, Tony Hall has replaced 
its longtime head, George Entwhistle. This company employed Jimmy Savile, who has been accused of 
hundreds of instances of sexual abuse over a period of sixty years since his death. For 10 points, name this 
London-based public broadcasting company. 
ANSWER: the  
BBC 
 [or the  
British Broadcasting Corporation 
] 
080-12-71-12125 
10. The atomic subshell denoted by this letter can contain up to six electrons and has three orbitals at each 
energy level. This letter names a dumbbell-shaped orbital with an azimuthal quantum number of 1 that, by 
the Aufbau principle, begins to fill with electrons after the 2s orbital is full. This letter also stands for the 
atomic symbol of an element whose white variety is highly flammable when exposed to air. For 10 points, 
give this letter used as the symbol for phosphorus. 
ANSWER:   [or   orbital] 
P p 
023-12-71-12126 
11. In Orphic mythology, Zeus fathered Zagreus with Persephone as one of these creatures. The mother of 
Ladon and the Nemean lion was half woman and half one of these animals. Melampus received the ability 
to communicate with animals from two of these beings. Heads of these creatures grew on the back of the 
watchdog of Hades, Cerberus. The son of Alcmene killed two of these creatures that were sent to his cradle 
by Hera. For 10 points, the infant Hercules strangled two of what type of animals that constitute the hair of 
Medusa? 
ANSWER:  
snakes 
 [or  
serpents 
] 
030-12-71-12127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  7 of 9 
12. This is the most famous kind of organism to grow a prothallus. The marattioid and ophioglossoid 
organisms of this type form, along with horsetails, the taxonomic group that these organisms are the most 
prominent part of. These organisms form a tiny, heart shaped gametophyte , form the majority of the group 
pteridophyta, and possess xylem and phloem, unlike bryophytes. However, they have neither flowers nor 
seeds, reproducing instead with the spores found in their fronds. For 10 points, name these plants that 
evolved early, much like mosses. 
ANSWER:  
fern 
s [or  
pteridophyte 
 and  
Pteridophyta 
 before mentioned] 
020-12-71-12128 
13. At the end of this work, the fellows of the protagonist all wear sashes matching his to commemorate his 
deeds. The potential mistress of one character in this work gives him a girdle that she claims will render 
him invulnerable. After one title character interrupts the New Year’s feast with which this work opens, the 
other title character accepts his challenge to a beheading contest. For 10 points, name this Arthurian 
romance by the Pearl Poet featuring a magical warrior of a certain color. 
ANSWER:  
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight 
014-12-71-12129 
14. Cities along this lake's shore include Cheboygan, Alpena, and Bay City, the last of which is on its 
extension, Saginaw Bay. The Bruce Peninsula juts into this lake, separating it from its large extension, 
Georgian Bay. An island in this lake, the largest freshwater island in the world, is Manitoulan Island. This 
lake is connected to another lake to the west by the Straits of Mackinac; for that reason, it is sometimes 
considered to be part of a larger lake with Lake Michigan. For 10 points, name this Great Lake south of 
Lake Superior, named after a Native American tribe. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Huron 
080-12-71-12130 
15. The eagle-giant Thiazzi forced this god to help him in capturing Idunn. This figure is punished by being 
bound below a venomous snake that drips poison into a bowl. At Ragnarok, Heimdall kills this figure and 
then dies from his own wounds. That punishment came after this deity gave a sprig of mistletoe to Hoder, 
who accidentally killed his brother Balder with it. For 10 points, name this father of Fenrir and Hel, a Norse 
trickster deity. 
ANSWER:  
Loki 
194-12-71-12131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 12 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Elevated levels of a peptide produced in this organ that relaxes the smooth muscles in the GI tract can 
cause WDHA syndrome. That peptide is VIP. Epsilon cells in one structure found in this organ produce 
ghrelin. Another 28 amino acid long hormone produced by this organ inhibits growth hormone. This 
organ’s delta cells produce somatostatin. Cell clusters of alpha and beta cells in this organ are known as 
Islets of Langerhans and produce glucagon. For 10 points, name this organ that produces insulin. 
ANSWER:  
pancreas 
149-12-71-12132 
2. This man's pamphlet on the \"Question of the East\" opposed Turkish massacres that he called the 
\"Bulgarian Horrors\" in one campaign. This man devised the Midlothian campaign and was publicly blamed 
for the death of Charles Gordon at Khartoum. His partnership with Charles Parnell to support Irish home 
rule led to the Unionist split in his Liberal party. For 10 points, name this \"Grand Old Man\" and four-time 
British prime minister who was the rival of Benjamin Disraeli. 
ANSWER: William Ewart  
Gladstone 
186-12-71-12133 
3. This phenomenon creates the Airy disk, and its Fraunhofer variety is governed by an equation which 
relates relative intensities. In crystals it is governed by Bragg's law, and this phenomenon was observed in 
electrons in the Davisson-Germer experiment. This phenomenon is a consequence of Huygens's principle, 
and this concept in optics can be studied using a namesake dispersive grating. For 10 points, identify this 
bending of light around obstacles. 
ANSWER:  
diffraction 
189-12-71-12134 
4. This author was inspired by the murder of Medgar Evers to write a story narrated by a resident of 
Thermopylae who kills a black man with his rifle. This author of “Where Is the Voice Coming From?” also 
wrote about Phoenix Jackson’s trip to get medicine for her grandson and about the arrival at China Grove 
of Sister’s sister from Illinois named Stella-Rondo. For 10 points, name this Southern author of  
The 
Optimist’s Daughter, 
 “A Worn Path,” and “Why I Live at the P.O.” 
ANSWER: Eudora  
Welty 
014-12-71-12135 
5. BCG is an example of these medical entities. The effectiveness of these medical tools are increased by 
adjuvants. Attenuation is used to create \"live\" examples of these entities. The MMR one is given to 
children in order to fight three separate diseases. New ones against influenza must be formulated each year. 
For 10 points, name these prophylactics that use biological material derived from a pathogen to get the 
body to attack the pathogen, thus providing a measure of preventive immunity. 
ANSWER:  
vaccine 
s [prompt on  
prophylactic 
s] 
001-12-71-12136 
What Norwegian composer’s  
Peer Gynt Suite 
 includes “Morning Mood” and “In the Hall of the Mountain 
King?? 
ANSWER: Edvard  
Grieg 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     12     Page  9 of 9 
