VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 14 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One character in this novel inwardly rages at how his colleagues talk about a woman, “degrading her to 
so much mutton,” concluding, “what makes it worse, she thinks of herself as meat.” The protagonist of this 
novel isolates himself in a lighthouse after confronting the World Controller Mustapha Mond. Set in the 
year 632 After Ford, this novel ends with the suicide of John the Savage. For 10 points, name this 
dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley. 
ANSWER:  
Brave New World 
014-12-70-14101 
2. This poet wrote, “O all the instruments agree the day of his death was a dark cold day” in his “In 
Memory of W. B. Yeats.” This poet claimed, “We must love one another or die” in a work beginning, “I sit 
in one of the dives on Fifty-Second Street uncertain and afraid.” He was inspired by Brueghel’s  
Landscape 
with the Fall of Icarus 
 to write a poem stating, “About suffering they were never wrong, the Old Masters.” 
For 10 points, name this British poet of “September 1, 1939” and “Musee des Beaux Arts.” 
ANSWER: W. H.  
Auden 
 [or Wystan Hugh  
Auden 
] 
014-12-70-14102 
3. A creature from the second game in this series speaks in rhymed couplets of trochaic heptameter and is 
named Gravemind. The first game in this series features a beach invasion on the level The Silent 
Cartographer and has the subtitle  
Combat Evolved 
. The main character in this series is assisted by Cortana, 
but he did not appear in the games  
Reach 
 or  
ODST 
. For 10 points, name this game series in which humans 
fight the Flood and the Covenant with the help of Master Chief. 
ANSWER:  
Halo 
023-12-70-14103 
4. At this battle, Daniel Sickles lost his leg while his army was massacred at the Peach Orchard. Devil's 
Den and Culp's Hill were sites at this battle, in which James Longstreet attacked Little Round Top. One 
assault at this battle went up the middle of Cemetery Ridge. George Meade's army fended off the doomed 
Pickett's charge at this three-day Union victory. For 10 points, name this July 1863 battle in Pennsylvania 
that was followed by a short Abraham Lincoln address. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Gettysburg 
104-12-70-14104 
5. In 2012, a clip was released showing four soldiers in this country urinating on three corpses. Uniformed 
police officers and soldiers in this country have killed over 100 fellow servicemen in \"green-on-blue\" 
attacks. This country's poppy fields supply 90% of the world's illicit opium, which is used to fund its 
insurgency. Its president is Hamid Karzai. For 10 points, name this country where the Taliban is fighting 
coalition forces, which have been there since a 2001 invasion. 
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of  
Afghanistan 
080-12-70-14105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  1 of 9 
6. In one play by this author, Apollo defends the protagonist at a trial declared by Athena which results in 
the renaming of the title figures. This man is credited with introducing the second actor to the ancient 
theater. Classical writers attributed  
Prometheus Bound 
 to this playwright, whose confirmed works include  
Seven Against Thebes. 
 For 10 points, name this ancient Greek playwright of  
Agamemnon, 
 the first of the 
only surviving trilogy of its kind, the  
Oresteia. 
ANSWER:  
Aeschylus 
014-12-70-14106 
7. This ruler helped put Stanislaw Poniatowski (POWN-yuh-TOHV-skee) on the throne of Poland. This 
ruler came to power with help from Grigory Orlov and apocryphally was shown fake villages constructed 
by Grigory Potemkin. A Cossack named Pugachev led a rebellion against this ruler while pretending to be 
this ruler's dead husband, Peter III. For 10 points, name this eighteenth-century German-born empress who 
helped westernize and add territory to Russia. 
ANSWER:  
Catherine the Great 
 [or  
Catherine II 
 of Russia; or  
Yekaterina Alekseyevna 
; or  
Yekaterina 
Velikaya 
; or  
Sophie Frederike Auguste 
; prompt on  
Catherine 
] 
023-12-70-14107 
8. The absence of this property in trans- isomers accounts for their lower boiling points as opposed to cis- 
isomers. The magnitude of this property is measured in debye units, or coulomb-meters (COO-lawm 
meters). Molecules with lone pairs on a central atom almost always have this property. Diatomic 
compounds of the same element never have this property. Bonds have this property if the relevant atoms 
have different electronegativities. For 10 points, name this property of a molecule with an uneven 
distribution of charge. 
ANSWER: molecular  
polar 
ity [or nonzero  
dipole moment 
] 
131-12-70-14108 
9. This god turned Caeneus (KIE-nee-us) into a male warrior after raping her. One story relates that he sent 
a monster to kill Hippolytus, the son of Theseus. This god lost a contest when the Athenians preferred 
Athena’s gift of olive oil to the spring created by this god. This god of earthquakes is the father of the 
shape shifting Proteus and the Cyclopes Polyphemus. For 10 points, name this trident wielding brother of 
Zeus and Hades who rules the oceans in Greek mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Poseidon 
 [or  
Neptune 
] 
015-12-70-14109 
10. This race was born from the union of Ixion and the cloud Semele, which had been given the form of 
Hera by Zeus. Some of them abducted Hippodamia on her wedding day, causing Pirithous and Theseus to 
fight them. That scene, and other depictions of their war with the Lapiths were depicted in the frieze of the 
Parthenon. The most famous member of this race was the teacher of Achilles. For 10 points, Chiron was an 
example of what half-horse half-man race from Greek mythology? 
ANSWER:  
centaur 
s 
015-12-70-14110 
11. Lane Turner wrote a song responding to this statement in which he described his \"two rugged hands.\" 
Similar to a controversial speech given by Elizabeth Warren in 2011, this statement was uttered during a 
campaign stop in Roanoke. It was reversed in the motto of Day 2 of the RNC and refers back to a comment 
about \"roads and bridges.\" For 10 points, name this soundbite of Barack Obama claiming that \"if you've got 
a business,\" you received help from the government along the way. 
ANSWER: \"If you've got a business,  
you didn't build that 
\" [or \" 
We Built It 
\" until \"Warren\" is read] 
080-12-70-14111 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  2 of 9 
12. The libretto for this opera was written by Emanuel Schikaneder, who was in the same Masonic lodge as 
its composer. The antagonist of this opera must sing 30 high C's and 4 F's above high C in the aria \"Der 
Holle Rache.\" In this opera, Sarastro overcomes the Queen of the Night and arranges tests for the bird 
catcher Papageno and the protagonist, Tamino. For 10 points, name this Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart opera 
about an enchanted musical instrument. 
ANSWER:  
The  Magic Flute 
 [or  
Die  Zauberflöte 
] 
080-12-70-14112 
13. This writer created the character of Mrs. Barker, a friend of Mommy who used to work for the Bye-Bye 
Adoption Service. In addition to writing  
The American Dream, 
 this man wrote about Jerry impaling himself 
on a knife in  
The Zoo Story. 
 The emotionally abusive relationship between George and Martha is the 
subject of one of his plays, in which Nick and Honey join them for a dinner party. For 10 points, name this 
American playwright who wrote  
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
ANSWER: Edward  
Albee 
 [or Edward Franklin  
Albee 
] 
030-12-70-14113 
14. This controversy grew from violations of the Boland Amendment and was first reported by Lebanon's  
Ash-Shiraa 
 magazine. One man who lied to Congress during this scandal later hosted a show about \"War 
Stories\" on cable TV. The Tower Commission outed Oliver North's role in this scandal, which revealed the 
source of funds for anti-Sandinista Nicaraguan rebels. For 10 points, name this scandal stemming from the 
Reagan administration's illegal sale of arms to a hostage-holding Islamic Republic. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Contra 
 affair [or obvious equivalents involving arms sales to  
Iran 
 to fund the  
Contra 
s] 
104-12-70-14114 
15. The four properties that guarantee reliable transactions within these systems are atomicity, consistency, 
isolation and durability. Common types of cardinality in these systems are one-to-one, one-to-many and 
many-to-many. Their unique identifiers are known as primary keys. They most commonly adhere to the 
relational model, in which foreign keys are used to relate multiple tables; the most popular language for 
that model is SQL. For 10 points, identify these systems used to store data in rows, known as records. 
ANSWER: relational  
database 
s 
066-12-70-14115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 14 
Directed Round 
1A.  What opponent of the wave theory of light names a discrete probability distribution that can 
approximate a binomial distribution with large n and small p? 
ANSWER: Siméon Denis  
Poisson 
1B.  What Walter Scott novel features Richard the Lion-Hearted and Robin Hood as minor characters but 
focuses on the title knight, who rescues the Jewish maiden Rebecca? 
ANSWER:  
Ivanhoe 
2A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Consider a jar with 5 red marbles, 3 green marbles, and 8 
blue marbles. What is the probability of randomly picking two green marbles, if the marbles are not 
replaced after being picked? 
ANSWER:  
1/40 
 [or  
0.025 
] 
2B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Solve for x in 3*log(2)-log(4^2) = log(x). 
ANSWER:  
1/2 
3A.  What event saw patriots dressed as Mohawks dump out the contents of the Dartmouth, Eleanor, and 
Beaver? 
ANSWER:  
Boston Tea Party 
3B.  What psychological concept is measured by such tests as the MMPI and Myers-Briggs Type Indicator? 
ANSWER:  
personality 
4A.  The capital cities of Buenos Aires and Montevideo sit on opposite sides of what busy estuary on the 
eastern coast of South America? 
ANSWER: the  
Rio de la Plata 
4B.  What French playwright wrote about an imposter who infiltrates house of Orgon in his comedy  
Tartuffe 
? 
ANSWER:  
Molière 
 [or Jean-Baptiste  
Poquelin 
] 
5A.  What tropical disease, once treated by quinine and DDT, is transmitted by the  
Plasmodium 
 protest via 
mosquitos? 
ANSWER:  
malaria 
5B.  What astronomer created a tuning fork for galaxy classification and names a space telescope? 
ANSWER: Edwin  
Hubble 
6A.  What adjective describes analogues of the trigonometric functions in which e is raised to a real power, 
instead of an imaginary one? 
ANSWER:  
hyperbolic 
 functions 
6B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the area of a triangle with side lengths of 5, 7, and 8? 
ANSWER:  
10 root 3 
 square units [or  
10 radical 3 
 square units; prompt on square  
root 
 of  
300 
 square units] 
7A.  This is a 30-second computation question. What is the sin of 75 degrees in simplest terms? 
ANSWER:  
root 6 + root 2 over four 
 [or  
one fourth times the quantity root 6 + root 2 
] 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  4 of 9 
7B. What doctor of theoretical physics is the roommate of Leonard Hofstadter on the CBS sitcom  
The Big 
Bang Theory? 
ANSWER:  
Sheldon 
 Cooper [or Sheldon  
Cooper 
] 
8A.  What school lost consecutive men’s basketball championship games to Duke and Connecticut in 2010 
and 2011? 
ANSWER:  
Butler 
 University 
8B.  Name the Andrew Wyeth painting which shows a disabled girl in a pink dress turning towards a 
farmhouse. 
ANSWER:  
Christina’s World 
9A.  The Jackson Hole resort and Grand Teton National Park are found in what least populous U.S. state? 
ANSWER:  
Wyoming 
9B.  What Chinese-born American architect designed the Museum of Islamic Art in Doha as well as the 
glass pyramids outside the Louvre? 
ANSWER: I. M.  
Pei 
 [or Ieoh Ming  
Pei 
] 
10A.  What Greek letter denotes cells in the Islets of Langerhans that secrete glucagon, as well as a type of 
radioactive decay that releases a helium nucleus? 
ANSWER:  
alpha 
10B.  Name the Catholic monarchs who initiated the Spanish Inquisition and supported the voyages of 
Christopher Columbus. 
ANSWER:  
Ferdinand and Isabella 
 [accept in either order; or  
Ferdinand 
 II of Aragon and  
Isabella 
 I of 
Castile; or  
Ferdinand V of Castile and Isabella 
 I; prompt on partial answer] 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 14 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This river forms three sides of a rectangular loop named for the Ordos Desert; the fourth side of that loop 
is made by the Wei (WAY) River, which, with the Fen River, serves as this river's largest tributaries. This 
river ends in the Bohai Sea after traveling nearly 5,500 kilometers, which makes it the second-longest river 
in its country. For 10 points, loess (LESS) picked up by what Chinese River gives it its name and 
distinctive color? 
ANSWER:  
Yellow 
 River [or  
Huang 
 He; or  
Hwang 
 Ho] 
023-12-70-14117 
2. In Mandarian Chinese, this item is called a “xiangjiao” (shee-ONG-JOW). The Arabic word for this item 
is “moza,” which inspired its neo-Latin scientific name. Another Arabic word, for “finger,” is a possible 
source of this item’s English name. Though this English word has an identical cognate in Spanish, many 
Mexican speakers refer to the sweet varieties as “plátanos” (PLAH-tahn-os). For 10 points, identify this 
fruit, which Spanish and English speakers distinguish in different manners from a plantain. 
ANSWER:  
banana 
019-12-70-14118 
3. Shirakawa discovered a conducting variety of these substances after doping with iodine. These 
substances can be called isotactic or syndiotactic, either quality making them stereoregular. A solution of 
these substances can be modeled using Flory-Huggins theory, and one class of compounds used to 
synthesize these substances work via the Cossee-Arlman mechanism and are titanium-based heterogeneous 
catalysts known as Ziegler-Natta catalysts. Common examples of these substances include PET, PVC, and 
nylon. For 10 points, name these molecules that consist of repeating units called monomers. 
ANSWER:  
polymer 
s 
201-12-70-14119 
4. A \"pastorale ad libitum\" closes a \"Christmas\" composition of this type by Corelli, an example of the 
\"grosso\" form popular in baroque music. A Bartok piece mocking a Shostakovich symphony was known as 
the one \"for orchestra.\" Mozart composed twenty-seven of a subcategory of these works. The Romantic 
period involved the fleshing out of the three major kinds of these works: the cello, the violin, and the piano. 
For 10 points, name these types of compositions written for an orchestra and a solo instrument. 
ANSWER:  
concerto 
s [or  
concerti 
; accept  
Christmas Concerto 
,  
concerto grosso violin concerto piano 
,  ,  
concerto 
, and  
cello concerto 
 before their respective mentions] 
014-12-70-14120 
5. The medical condition astigmatism occurs in this organ. Oxidation of vitamin A results in the production 
of the pigment-bearing portion of rhodopsin, which is found in this organ. This organ contains the fovea, 
which is found at the center of the macula and contains a high concentration of cone cells. The name given 
to this organ also names the calm weather found at the center of cyclones, such as hurricanes. For 10 
points, identify this organ that detects light and allows sight. 
ANSWER:  
eye 
066-12-70-14121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  6 of 9 
6. One version of this effect formed the basis for the Ives-Stillwell experiment; that version was predicted 
by special relativity and is the transverse form. This effect is responsible for blueshift and redshift, which is 
an increase and decrease, respectively, in the frequency of light depending on whether the source is moving 
away from, or towards, an observer, respectively. For 10 points, name this effect that causes the frequency 
of a siren to increase as it approaches an observer. 
ANSWER:  
Doppler 
 effect [or relativistic  
Doppler 
 effect; accept  
shift 
 in place of  
effect 
] 
149-12-70-14122 
7. This author was good friends with the opera singer Olive Fremstad, who was the basis for Thea 
Kronborg in her novel  
The Song of the Lark. 
 She wrote about a Pittsburgh high school student who runs 
away to New York and throws himself in front of a train in “Paul’s Case.” In one novel, she wrote about 
Jim Burden’s experiences with the Bohemian Shimerda family. For 10 points, name this novelist who 
wrote pioneer stories about the Nebraska prairies such as  
My Antonia. 
ANSWER: Willa  
Cather 
 [or Willa Sibert  
Cather 
] 
015-12-70-14123 
8. The protagonist of this novel meets Nicholas Schliemann at a party thrown by the millionaire Fisher. Its 
protagonist is imprisoned for attacking his wife’s boss Phil Connor after learning that he had raped her. 
Ona dies giving birth to her second child in this novel, pushing Jurgis Rudkus further towards socialism. 
This novel inspired legislation with its depictions of the Chicago meatpacking industry. For 10 points, 
name this muckraking novel by Upton Sinclair. 
ANSWER:  
The  Jungle 
015-12-70-14124 
9. The radius of gyration for one of these objects is equal to I over mass times radius, while two pi times 
the square root of I over mass times radius times the local gravitational acceleration is equal to the period 
for one of these objects, which Galileo believed was independent of starting point. One of these objects was 
used to show that the Earth rotates by Foucault. For 10 points, name these objects that are made up of a 
swinging mass at the end of a rope. 
ANSWER:  
pendulum 
149-12-70-14125 
10. Some adherents of this religion put honey in a newborn’s mouth and whisper divine names into its ear. 
Its followers light bonfires and throw colored powder at each other during the holiday of Holi. Works held 
to be scriptures in this religion include the Puranas, Upanishads (oo-PAH-nee-shods), and the Vedas. Some 
of its followers worship a “trimurti” that includes a destroyer god, a preserver god, and a creator god. For 
10 points, name this Indian religion whose adherents might worship Shiva, Brahma, and Vishnu. 
ANSWER:  
Hindu 
ism 
015-12-70-14126 
11.  
Fletcher v. Peck 
 forbid this state from canceling contracts after the Yazoo land fraud. The Cornerstone 
Speech was delivered by this state's governor Alexander Stephens. Samuel Worcester was arrested in this 
state, leading to a Supreme Court case that failed to stop the removal of the Cherokee from this state on the 
Trail of Tears. This state was founded as a prison colony for debtors by James Oglethorpe. For 10 points, 
name this Southern state home to Newt Gingrich and Jimmy Carter. 
ANSWER:  
Georgia 
104-12-70-14127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  7 of 9 
12. The main drug used to treat this disease is activated by the KatG catalase-peroxidase and inhibits an 
enoyl-acyl carrier protein reductase; that drug is often given alongside ethambutol and rifampicin and is 
called isoniazid. Its causative agent has mycolic acids in its cell wall. This disease causes caseous necrosis 
and granulomas to appear in the target organ, and it is caused by a mycobacterium. It is often detected 
using a skin test. For 10 points, name this disease that affects the lungs and causes a bloody cough. 
ANSWER:  
tuberculosis 
 or  
TB 
048-12-70-14128 
13. During this dynasty, the military was divided into the Eight Banners. This dynasty included the 
longest-reigning Chinese emperor, whose grandson was in power at the time of the White Lotus Rebellion. 
Including the Kangxi (KONG-shee) and Qianlong (CHYAN-lawng) emperors, this dynasty also defeated 
the forces of Hong Xiuquan (SHEE-oo-CHEW-on) in the Taiping Rebellion. This dynasty was established 
by the Manchus after the fall of the Ming Dynasty. For 10 points, name this final Chinese dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Qing 
 Dynasty [accept  
Manchu 
 Dynasty before read] 
014-12-70-14129 
14. One of this man’s poems begins, “While my hair was still cut straight across my forehead I played 
about the front gate.” Another of his poems describes “the apparition of these faces in the crowd; petals on 
a wet, black bough.” This author of “The River-Merchant’s Wife: A Letter” and  
Hugh Selwyn Mauberley 
died without finishing his massive multilingual poem divided into the title sections. For 10 points, name 
this American poet of “In a Station of the Metro” and  
The Cantos. 
ANSWER: Ezra  
Pound 
 [or Ezra Loomis  
Pound 
] 
014-12-70-14130 
15. The fifth of these vessels successfully carried Belka and Strelka out and back. The second of these 
vessels was created with a small cabin that eventually overheated, causing the death of its occupant of four 
days named Laika. The first of these crafts stayed in orbit for a total of three months. For 10 points, name 
this Soviet program of satellites that first launched on October 4, 1957, and which started both the Space 
Age and the Space Race. 
ANSWER:  
Sputnik 
 5 [or  
Sputnik 
 2; or  
Sputnik 
 1] 
023-12-70-14131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 14 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. These animals can climb or escape tight spaces with the inefficient \"concertina\" movement. Some of 
these animals have pits between their eye and nostril that allow them to see the infrared radiation from 
prey. These organisms collect air particles on their tongue, which then hits Jacobson's Organ to allow them 
to smell. Their mobile jaw bones allow them to swallow prey larger than their heads. For 10 points, name 
these insidious reptiles that include pit vipers and cobras. 
ANSWER:  
snake 
s [or  
serpents 
; or specific types, such as  
vipers 
; or  
cobras 
; or  
pythons 
; etc.; prompt on  
reptiles 
] 
080-12-70-14132 
2. In meteorology, when this phenomenon is perpendicular to isolines, the greatest advection occurs. The 
Beaufort scale is used to characterize this phenomenon. Transport that occurs via this process is called 
aeolian, which can create loess. The speed of this phenomenon can be measured with an anemometer. For 
10 points, identify this flow of air between areas of different pressure, caused by the uneven heating of the 
Earth. 
ANSWER:  
wind 
066-12-70-14133 
3. In this novel, Nurse Duckett's relationship with the protagonist hurts her relationship with Nurse Cramer. 
The protagonist of this novel uses a parachute to cover the deep wounds of Snowden. All of Egypt's cotton 
is purchased by Milo Minderbinder's company in this novel. Other characters in this novel include Major 
Major Major Major. For 10 points, identify this novel about the pilot Yossarian, who faces the title 
paradoxical situation, written by Joseph Heller. 
ANSWER:  
Catch-22 
189-12-70-14134 
4. These things can transfer DNA from one organism to another via transduction. Reverse transcriptase is 
used in the reproductive cycle of \"retro\" ones. They can be classified as \"helical\" or \"icosahedral\" 
depending on the shape of the capsid surrounding their genetic material. These things can reproduce by the 
lytic or lysogenic cycle, and more generally by injecting their DNA into a \"host\" cell's genome. For 10 
points, name this infectious particles that cause diseases like West Nile and influenza. 
ANSWER:  
viruses 
 [or bacterio 
phage 
s, a subset; or  
virions 
] 
080-12-70-14135 
5. One poem about this conflict depicts a conversation between two dead participants and is titled “Strange 
Meeting.” Robert Graves described this conflict in  
Good-Bye to All That. 
 One poem about this conflict 
asks, \"What passing bells for these who die as cattle?\" Another poem about this conflict condemns “the old 
lie” told to its participants and describes the “ecstasy of fumbling” during a gas attack. For 10 points, name 
this conflict depicted by War Poets such as Siegfried Sassoon and Wilfred Owen. 
ANSWER:  
World War I 
 [or the  
First World War 
] 
191-12-70-14136 
This is a calculation question. If each interior angle of a regular polygon measures 150 degrees, how many 
sides does the polygon have? 
ANSWER:  
12 
What ragtime musician composed the \"Maple Leaf Rag\" and \"The Entertainer\"? 
ANSWER: Scott  
Joplin 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     14     Page  9 of 9 
