National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 4 
Tossups 
1. One brief in this case argued that the government \"has a right to safeguard a citizen against his own lack 
of knowledge.\" That brief by Julius Mayer was addressed in the majority opinion written by Rufus 
Peckham, which led to this case's name becoming a participle used to accuse justices of making up law. 
The argument that the Fourteenth Amendment does not \"enact\" Spencer's Social Statics was put forth in 
Holmes's dissent. Starting an \"era\" of cases that knocked down regulations on working conditions, this case 
dealt with a violation of the Bakeshop Act. For 10 points, name this 1905 case that centered on hours of the 
workday in New York. 
ANSWER:  
Lochner  v. New York 
 [accept either order] 
020-09-12-04102 
2. This organism dodges the immune system by expressing Lewis blood group antigens, and the most 
common strains are J99 and 26685. Virulent strains encode a toxin that binds to VIP54 and creates large 
vacuoles, known as VacA. They encode a Type IV secretory system in the CagA pathogenicity island, 
which also activates the SH2 kinase. A urease breath test can be used to detect this microaerophile, and the 
inflammatory response to it induces the secretion of gastrin from G cells. Treating infection with this 
organism involves two antibiotics and a proton pump inhibitor, and it was studied by Barry Marshall, who 
notably drank a solution of it to prove that it causes gastritis. For 10 points, name this bacterium 
responsible for many ulcers. 
ANSWER:  
H elicobacter  pylori 
048-09-12-04103 
3. This city hosts free Shakespeare-in-the-park called the “Southern Shakespeare Festival.” A defunct 
airport in this city was named for a casualty in a 1922 dirigible disaster, the crash of the  
Roma 
. Besides 
Dale Mabry Field, this city contains an administrative building from which the odd demand for 666 
Dunkin’s Donuts was issued from student protester Marshall Ledbetter in 1991. Near this city was the 
Battle of Natural Bridge during the Civil War, in which students from what would become a major state 
university prevented the Union from capturing a certain Confederate capital. That university included a 
president named Doak Campbell and has an athletic team called the Seminoles. For 10 points, name this 
capital of Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Tallahassee 
052-09-12-04104 
4. The founders of this movement were all students of the man who showed that the horse Clever Hans 
could not do arithmetic. One of its founders observed that chimpanzees use insight learning to solve tests 
such as using two short bamboo sticks to reach a banana. This movement argues that the mind groups 
objects by their similarity and proximity, which are based on the principle of pragnanz. A psychologist who 
helped found it discovered that a series of slightly different stationary images create the illusion of 
movement, an illusion known as the phi phenomenon. For 10 points, name this school founded by Kurt 
Koffka, Wolfgang Kohler and Max Wertheimer, which studies how the whole is greater than the sum of its 
parts. 
ANSWER:  
Gestalt 
 psychology 
003-09-12-04105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  1 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. In the second stanza of this poem, its speaker longs for \"a beaker full of the warm South\" in order to 
\"drink, and leave the world unseen.\" In this poem's third stanza, the speaker wishes to \"fade far away, 
dissolve, and quite forget\" the \"weariness, and fever, and the fret\" of the world. Its speaker resolves to fly to 
this poem's title being \"on the viewless wings of Poesy,\" and begins this poem by lamenting \"My heart 
aches, and a drowsy numbness pains my sense / As though of hemlock I had drunk.\" This poem ends with 
the word \"forlorn\" tolling the speaker back to reality after its speaker exclaims \"Thou wast not born for 
death, immortal Bird!\" For 10 points, name this ode to the song of the title bird, written by John Keats. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ode to a Nightingale 
\" 
004-09-12-04106 
6. A quantity of this name for neutrons is multiplied by the macroscopic fission cross-section to give the 
fission reaction rate in a nuclear reactor. In a type-II superconductor, the usual version of this quantity is 
quantized for the H field when the applied field is between two critical values; the inverse of that quantum 
is the Josephson constant. For electromagnetic energy, this quantity is represented by the Poynting vector. 
Fick’s first law states that this value for a given quantity is equal on net to minus the diffusion constant 
times the gradient of that quantity. For the electric field, this quantity through a closed surface is 
proportional to the enclosed charge according to Gauss's Law. For 10 points, name this quantity, equal to 
the rate at which some physical quantity passes through a location per unit area. 
ANSWER:  
flux 
 [accept more specific answers such as  
neutron flux electric flux magnetic flux 
,  ,  , etc.] 
032-09-12-04107 
7. In the third movement of this symphony, a bassoon attempts to accompany a theme played by the oboe, 
but can only play the two notes F and C. At the end of its second movement, an oboe, a flute, and a clarinet 
respectively imitate the calls of a quail, a nightingale, and a cuckoo. In its fourth movement, a five-note 
passage for the cellos is played along a similar four-note passage for the double basses, creating an 
ominous rumbling before the entrance of timpani imitating the sound of thunder during a furious storm. 
This symphony's five movements include ones titled \"By the Brook,\" \"A merry gathering of country folk,\" 
and \"Cheerful impressions awakened by arrival in the country.\" Premiered in 1808 along with its 
composer's C minor fifth symphony, for 10 points, name this Beethoven symphony that portrays rural life 
and nature. 
ANSWER: \" 
Pastoral 
\" Symphony [or Ludwig van  
Beethoven Symphony No. 6 
's  ] 
032-09-12-04108 
8. One aspect of this god was worshiped in an airtight cylindrical temple, represented all the cardinal 
directions, and blew the sun and moon into place. In one story, this god slept with his celibate priestess 
sister, burning himself to death in shame. This god's heart became the morning star, the twin brother of 
Venus. This god created the fifth cycle of mankind by letting blood flow from his penis into a meal of 
ground-up bones of previous races. This analogue of Kukulcan and rival of Tezcatlipoca was mistaken for a 
horse-riding conquistador. For 10 points, name this feathered serpent from Aztec mythology, who was 
mistaken for Hernan Cortes. 
ANSWER:  
Quetzalcoatl 
 [or  
White Tezcatlipoca 
, but do not accept or prompt on  
Tezcatlipoca 
 itself] 
040-09-12-04109 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  2 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. One character in this play asks “What crotchet has that swaggering booby got in his numbskull?,” 
referring to a traitor whose cronies include Razmann and Schufterle. The villain of this play meets with 
Pastor Moser before killing himself to avoid facing punishment. The protagonist of this play gives a speech 
about striking a “generation of vipers to the quick” and is later betrayed by Spielgelberg. Near the end of 
this play, the protagonist slays his beloved Amelia and turns himself into the law. This occurs shortly after 
the death of his father, who was tricked into rejecting the protagonist by his other son, Franz. For 10 points, 
name this play about the tragic Karl Moor, who becomes the captain of the title band of thieves, a work by 
Friedrich Schiller. 
ANSWER:  
The  Robbers 
 [or  
Die  Räuber 
] 
052-09-12-04110 
10. One future queen of this country named Victoria served as page-turner for Franz Liszt when he visited 
the Karlsruhe opera, and as king, her husband permitted the German Englebrecht division to pass through 
this country during World War II. It participated in a war that saw France lose the Franche-Comte as part of 
an alliance with England and the Dutch Republic.It was united under Margaret I with Norway and 
Denmark in the Kalmar Union, and members of its royal Vasa family included Charles IX and Christina. 
For 10 points, identify this country that was once led by Gustavus Adolphus. 
ANSWER:  
Sweden 
032-09-12-04111 
11. In gas chromatography, this word describes a product obtained when silyl groups are added to a 
molecule of interest to reduce polarity. In multi-variable calculus, one operator with this name is the dot 
product of a unit vector with the gradient, known as the directional this. In biochemistry, this term refers to 
a molecule that is synthesized by slightly modifying a given compound, usually by adding a named group - 
for example, aniline is an amino one of these of benzene. In single-variable calculus, the nth of these of a 
given function appears in the nth coefficient of the Taylor series of that function. For 10 points, give this 
common word the one of which from calculus can be used on both dividends of an apparently 
indeterminate limit according to l'Hôspital's [low-pee-TALZ] rule. 
ANSWER:  
derivative 
064-09-12-04112 
12. This author wrote pro-French satirical letters under a pseudonym he described as \"One of the Swinish 
Multitude,\" Robert Slender. This author described being taken to \"A slaughter-house, yet hospital in name\" 
in a poem about the torturous conditions of the \"piles for slaughter, floating on the floods,\" which was 
inspired by the capture of the  
Aurora 
. A poem by this author laments that \"Unpitying frosts and Autumn’s 
power\" will leave no vestige of the title object, which is described as a \"fair flower, which dost comely 
grow.\" The speaker of another of his poems imagines a place where \"the hunter still the deer pursues\" 
alongside \"the painted chief, and pointed spear.\" For 10 points, name this early American poet of \"The 
British Prison Ship,\" \"The Wild Honey Suckle,\" and \"The Indian Burying Ground,\" who is often called the 
\"poet of the American Revolution.\" 
ANSWER: Philip Morin  
Freneau 
034-09-12-04113 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  3 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. The twenty-ninth section of this book compares believers in other gods to the fragile web created by a 
spider. This book's ninety-sixth section asserts that God created mankind from a clot of blood. This book's 
twenty-fourth section compares God to a shining lamp lit from a blessed tree in its \"Verse of Light.\" The 
ninety-ninth section of this book describes an earthquake on the day of judgment, and almost every section 
of this book begins with the Bismillah. This book's \"Sword verse\" exhorts believers to \"find and slay 
pagans,\" and sections of this book are divided into verses called ayat. Beginning with a section called \"the 
opening,\" for 10 points, name this book divided into suras, which was revealed in the seventh century by 
the angel Gibreel to Muhammad. 
ANSWER:  
Qu'ran 
 [or  
Koran 
] 
004-09-12-04114 
14. Bernard Stiegler argues that this philosopher first explained the use of clothing and tools as \"the 
naturalized character of prostheses.\" One of his works contrasts the role of the windmill in pre-industrial 
states with the construction of a hydroelectric plant on the Rhine to argue that technology has reframed 
Being. He argued that the title creations as part of the \"world\" and not the \"earth,\" because they are within 
the ready-to-hand, in a work that analyzes Vincent Van Gogh's  
A Pair of Shoes 
. This author of  
The 
Question Concerning Technology 
 and  
The Origin of the Work of Art 
 discussed ontological hermeneutics 
and coined the term  
dasein 
 in his best-known work. For 10 points, name this philosopher who wrote  
Being 
and Time 
. 
ANSWER: Martin  
Heidegger 
032-09-12-04115 
15. According to U.S. Marshal Ward Lamon, an arrest warrant was issued for this man but never acted 
upon. This man withdrew government money from the Second Bank of the United States, in favor of the 
pet bsnks, while serving as Levi Woodbury's predecessor as Secretary of the Treasury. This man dealt with 
a Maryland man accused of burning bridges during the Civil War named John Merryman. He famously 
handed down the majority opinion in a case that ruled that the national government could not prohibit 
slavery in the territories and that slaves could not lodge lawsuits. For 10 points, name this fifth Supreme 
Court Chief Justice who presided over  
Dred Scott v. Sandford. 
ANSWER: Roger  
Taney 
032-09-12-04116 
16. One statue commissioned for this building was rejected by its patrons for having an overlarge head, but 
was accepted once it was placed unchanged in its final location. Donatello's  
Saint Louis of Toulouse 
 was 
intended for this building, but it was replaced by a Verrocchio work in which Christ touches Thomas's 
head. A semicircular arrangement of  
Four Crowned Martyrs 
 was sculpted for this building by Nanni di 
Banco. This building also houses Ghiberti's  
Saint John the Baptist 
 and Donatello's  
Saint Mark 
. The trade 
guilds that patronized this church filled its fourteen exterior niches with various bronze and stone statues. 
For 10 points, name this Florentine church whose name translates as the \"Kitchen Garden of Saint 
Michael.\" 
ANSWER: the  
Orsanmichele 
026-09-12-04117 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  4 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. In his autobiography, this ruler described how he swam across every river he encountered, including the 
Ganges. After this ruler was asked to invade a neighboring kingdom by Daulat Khan, he won a decisive 
battle due to artillery commanded by his generals Mustafa and Ustad Ali. This Timurid prince briefly 
controlled Samarkand, but was driven from it by Shaibani Khan. He defeated the Rajputs commanded by 
Rana Sanga at the Battle of Khanwa, giving him control over north India. That victory occurred after he 
smashed the forces of Ibrahim Lodi at the First Battle of Panipat. After his death in 1530, he was succeeded 
by his son Humayun. For 10 points, name this founder of the Mughal Empire, the grandfather of Akbar. 
ANSWER: Zahir ud-din-Mahommed  
Babur 
004-09-12-04118 
18. A common method of reducing these compounds involves using a catalyst containing 3 P-Ph-3 groups 
and one chlorine atom bound to ruthenium, a method which has largely been replaced by Crabtree’s 
catalyst. Reacting them with carbenes is a common method of producing cyclopropanes. A series of these 
compounds alternating on a long side chain serves as a chromophore in retinal. When they are reacted with 
osmium tetraoxide, diols are formed. Acid halides add to these compounds such that the halide adds to the 
more substituted carbon, a rule named for Markovnikov. For 10 points, identify this class of compounds 
that can be either cis or trans and are characterized by carbon-carbon double bonds. 
ANSWER:  
alkene 
s [or  
olefin 
s] 
032-09-12-04119 
19. In one work by this painter, an oriental rug is draped across the table at right, upon which rests a jug, 
and a downward-facing mirror reflects the central woman and some square tiles. Another work by this artist 
shows a painting of Moses on the wall, while the title character is clad in a green kimono and inspects a 
globe. He produced a painting that shows a bread-filled table on which rests a container that the title 
servant fills. Another of his paintings shows a woman wearing a blue turban, turning towards the viewer to 
expose the title piece of jewelry. For 10 points, name this painter of  
The Music Lesson The Astronomer 
,  ,  
The Milkmaid 
 and  
Girl with the Pearl Earring 
, who also depicted the Dutch city where he was born in his 
landscape  
View of Delft 
. 
ANSWER: Johannes \"Jan\"  
Vermeer 
052-09-12-04120 
20. In the fourth chapter of this novel's second section, the protagonist stumbles upon an abandoned house 
and successfully fights a crippled dog over the scraps of meat on a bone. The protagonist of this novel eats 
a lump of sugar placed by the mouth of a dead Indian boy in a cemetery, and travels to Carmen after 
discovering his illegitimate daughter Brigitta. The main plot of this novel is juxtaposed with scenes of a 
mother telling stories about an unrealistically perfect martyr named Juan to her son Luis. The protagonist of 
this novel crosses the border to hear the dying confessions of the Gringo, although he knows that the 
mestizo will betray him to the Lieutenant. For 10 points, name this novel about a \"whiskey\" priest pursued 
by anti-Catholic authorities in Mexico, written by Graham Greene. 
ANSWER:  
The  Power and the Glory 
034-09-12-04121 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  5 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
21. While holding this position, one man survived an assassination attempt by Jean-Baptiste Sipido and 
became involved in the Tranby Croft Scandal. This position was officially created by the Treaty of 
Montgomery. The only native to officially hold this position was known as \"the Last,\" and married the 
daughter of Simon de Montfort; Edmund Mortimer married the daughter of a later native who claimed this 
position. The motto of this position is \"Ich dien.\" A person who held this position for only five months later 
sparked \"the Fifteen,\" and another man could not be elevated to this position until it was certain that Arthur 
Tudor had not gotten his wife, Catherine of Aragon, pregnant. For 10 points, name this position that is 
traditionally held by the heir apparent to the throne of England and is currently occupied by Charles, son of 
Queen Elizabeth II. 
ANSWER:  
Prince of Wales 
003-09-12-04122 
22. One character in this play tells a story about paying ten dollars a month for fifteen years to buy furniture 
on credit from the devil. In the final scene of this play, two children pay tribute to their dead father by 
singing about a dog named Blue. The main character of this play warns his son by saying \"strike one,\" 
\"strike two,\" and \"Don't you strike out\" before that son attempts to assault him with a baseball bat. At the 
climax of this play, the protagonist's wife decides to raise Raynell after learning that her husband cheated 
on her with Alberta. The protagonist refuses to allow his son Cory to play college football, and creates this 
play's title structures for his wife Rose. For 10 points, name this play set in the 1950s, which focuses on 
Pittsburgh garbageman Troy Maxson and was written by August Wilson. 
ANSWER:  
Fences 
005-09-12-04123 
23. This structure is found immediately ventral to the pouch of Douglas. Scarring in this organ can lead to 
Asherman's syndrome, and Gartner's ducts may remain in the broad ligament of this organ rather than 
vanishing during gestation. Agenesis of this organ occurs in MRKH syndrome, and this organ can also be 
bicornate or unicornate in other malformations. This organ's lining, the endometrium, is sloughed off 
during menstruation, and when zygotes implant outside of it, ectopic pregnancy occurs. For 10 points, 
name this organ of the female reproductive system in which gestation occurs. 
ANSWER:  
uterus 
032-09-12-04124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  6 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 4 
Bonuses 
1. This city replaced Punakha as capital and it was designed in the principles of intelligent urbanism. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this world capital that was developed under the reign of King Jigme Dorji Wangchuck. 
ANSWER:  
Thimphu 
[10] Thimphu is the capital of this Asian nation located in the Himalayas known for using Gross National 
Happiness to measure quality of life. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Bhutan 
[10] The northern part of Bhutan contains this peak, which at just under 25,000 feet is the tallest unclimbed 
mountain on Earth. 
ANSWER:  
Gangkhar Puensum 
064-09-12-04201 
2. In the third of this piece's four sections, an English horn and a flute play a pastoral \"call to the dairy 
cows.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composition whose finale uses trumpets to depict an energetic cavalry charge. 
ANSWER:  
William Tell 
overture 
 [or  
Guillaume Tell 
overture 
 ] 
[10] In this baritone aria by the same composer, Figaro introduces himself and rapidly boasts about why he 
is the most famous barber in Seville. 
ANSWER: \" 
Largo al Factotum 
\" 
[10] This Italian composed the operas  
William Tell 
 and  
The Barber of Seville 
. 
ANSWER: Gioachino  
Rossini 
004-09-12-04202 
3. The decisive phase of the Mexican-American war culminated in the seizure of Mexico City after the 
Battle of Chapultepec. For 10 points each: 
[10] The American trek to Mexico City began with an amphibious landing and siege at this port city; the 
Mexican commander Juan Esteban Morales held out for twenty days before surrendering. 
ANSWER:  
Veracruz 
[10] The American forces were led by this general who later lost the 1852 presidential election to Franklin 
Pierce. 
ANSWER: Winfield  
Scott 
[10] Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna attempted to block the American advance at a mountain pass at this site 
near Xalapa, but, after Robert E. Lee found a way to bypass the Mexicans, a rout ensued. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Cerro Gordo 
040-09-12-04203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  7 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. This commander secured his country's independence by forcing General Rochambeau to surrender at the 
Battle of Vertieres. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this leader, who declared himself his country's first emperor in 1804. According to legend, he 
created his country's flag by tearing out the white section of the French tricolor. 
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques  
Dessalines 
 [or Emperor  
Jacques I 
; prompt on  
Jacques 
] 
[10] Jean-Jacques Dessalines ruled this Caribbean country, which successfully revolted against France 
under the leadership of Toussaint L'Overture. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Haiti 
[10] After Dessalines was assassinated in 1806, Haiti became divided into a southern republic led by 
Alexandre Petion and a northern kingdom ruled by this revolutionary, who built the Citadelle Laferrière 
and committed suicide in 1820. 
ANSWER: Henri  
Christophe 
 [or King  
Henri I 
; prompt on  
Henri 
] 
004-09-12-04204 
5. They consist of two electrons with opposite spin and momentum that form a bound state at sufficiently 
low temperatures. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these \"pairs\" that occur as a result of electron-phonon coupling at energies near the Fermi level. 
ANSWER:  
Cooper pair 
s 
[10] Cooper pairs are at the heart of the BCS theory, which was developed to explain this phenomenon. 
ANSWER:  
superconductivity 
[10] The BCS theory also accounts for this, effect in which superconductor expels all magnetic flux from 
its interior. 
ANSWER: the  
Meissner 
-Ochsenfeld effect 
040-09-12-04205 
6. Name these Roman historians, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Brit notoriously blamed Christianity for causing instability within the Roman empire, thus 
leading to the title event of his magnum opus  
The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire 
. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Gibbon 
[10] This Roman, who served in some capacity in the reign of Augustus, is best known for his book  
Ab 
Urbe Condita 
, or the  
History of Rome 
, which begins with the arrival of Aeneas and continues through 
Julius Caesar. 
ANSWER:  
Livy 
 or Titus  
Livius 
[10] Another great Roman historian was the author of the  
Annals 
, Tacitus. Tacitus was married to the 
daughter of this great general, who served as governor of Britannia and conquered much of Scotland and 
Wales. One of Tacitus’ first histories is a biography of this man. 
ANSWER: Gnaeus Julius  
Agricola 
052-09-12-04206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  8 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. Answer the following about contemporary American literature, for 10 points each. 
[10] Harold Bloom considers this incredibly violent Cormac McCarthy novel to be one of the greatest 
works of American literature. Subtitled \"the Evening Redness in the West,\" it describes the wanderings of 
the kid, who joins the Glanton Gang and opposes Judge Holden. 
ANSWER:  
Blood Meridian , or the Evening Redness in the West 
[10] In this 2004 novel, William Robbins mentors the free black Henry Townsend, who owns a slave 
plantation in Manchester, Virginia. Its title refers to the map hung on the wall of a jail by Sheriff John 
Skiffington. 
ANSWER:  
The  Known World 
[10] This author wrote an alternate history imagining a dramatic rise in anti-Semitism after Charles 
Lindbergh wins the election of 1940, titled  
The Plot Against America 
. He also wrote the novels  
American 
Pastoral 
 and  
Portnoy's Complaint 
. 
ANSWER: Philip  
Roth 
019-09-12-04207 
8. Wobble refers to the relaxed base-pairing rule during this process in protein synthesis. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Ribosomes read the messenger RNA from 5 prime end to 3 prime end to produce amino acids in what 
process? 
ANSWER:  
translation 
[10] Prokaryote translation begins upon recognition of this eight base pair sequence, named for two 
Austrian scientists. It is analogous to the Kozak sequence in eukaryotes. 
ANSWER:  
Shine-Delgarno 
 sequence [or  
Shine-Delgarno 
 box] 
[10] In bacteria, the start codon A-U-G always codes for the \"formyl\" type of this essential amino acid. 
Along with tryptophan, it is one of the only two amino acids encoded by just one codon. 
ANSWER:  
methionine 
 [prompt on M] 
034-09-12-04208 
9. The title character of this novel accidentally invites Thomas Wynn to a party instead of Tristan Thomas, 
and is heartbroken at being rejected by his ex-wife Dr. Liza Wind. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this comic novel about a Russian professor at Waindell College. 
ANSWER:  
Pnin 
[10]  
Pnin 
 was written by this Russian-American novelist, who wrote about Humbert Humbert’s attraction 
to a \"nymphet\" in  
Lolita 
. 
ANSWER: Vladimir  
Nabokov 
[10] This Iranian-born author described Humbert Humbert as an analogue of the Ayatollah in her \"memoir 
in books,\"  
Reading Lolita in Tehran 
. 
ANSWER: Azar  
Nafisi 
015-09-12-04209 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  9 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. Believers in this doctrine cite John 15:16, which states \"Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen 
you.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Calvinist doctrine, which asserts that God determines who will be saved before birth. 
ANSWER:  
predestination 
[10] This assembly, which took place from 1618 to 1619 in the Netherlands, upheld the doctrine of absolute 
predestination and rejected the beliefs of Arminius. 
ANSWER:  
Synod of Dordt 
recht 
[10] One of the positions rejected by the Synod of Dordt was the Arminian belief that God merely offers 
this divine gift to people, allowing them the free will to accept or reject it. Calvinist theology believes that 
it is irresistible, and theologians classify it into \"sanctifying\" and \"actual\" varieties. 
ANSWER: God's  
grace 
004-09-12-04210 
11. This mathematician's namesake numbers describe the number of ways that a polygon with N plus two 
sides can be divided into N triangles. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this mathematician, whose conjecture states that eight and nine are the only consecutive powers 
of integers. 
ANSWER: Eugene Charles  
Catalan 
[10] Catalan's identity holds for this sequence of numbers. The Nth term in this sequence is the sum of 
terms N minus one and N minus two; it begins 1, 1, 2... 
ANSWER: the  
Fibonnaci 
 sequence 
[10] Catalan's constant is equal to the value of this mathematician's beta function of two. In 1837, this 
mathematician proved that any arithmetic progression whose first term is coprime to the common 
difference contains infinitely many primes. 
ANSWER: Johann Peter Gustav Lejeune  
Dirichlet 
004-09-12-04211 
12. This event was funded with the so-called \"Saladin tithe.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this military campaign, which ran from roughly 1189 to 1192. It saw the siege of Acre and the 
battle of Arsuf and ended with Richard I reaching an agreement with Saladin which allowed pilgrims to 
visit Jerusalem. 
ANSWER:  
Third Crusade 
 [or  
Kings Crusade 
] 
[10] Besides Richard I and Philip II, another monarch who took part in the Third Crusade was this Holy 
Roman Emperor, who unfortunately drowned in a river before reaching the Holy Land. This German from 
Swabia was excommunicated by Alexander III in 1160. 
ANSWER:  
Frederick I 
 [or  
Frederick III of Swabia 
; or Frederick  
Barbarossa 
; prompt on  
Frederick 
] 
[10] Pope Alexander III also supported this alliance of northern Italian cities, whose forces decisively 
defeated Barbarossa at the battle of Legnano, forcing the king to agree to the terms of the Peace of Venice. 
ANSWER:  
Lombard 
 League 
052-09-12-04212 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  10 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. The general plan for this building complex was drafted by Le Corbusier, though Wallace Harrison led a 
team that came up with the particulars of the design for the central skyscraper. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this group of buildings that occupies six blocks along the East River and was donated to New 
York upon its completion by John Rockefeller, Jr. 
ANSWER: the  nited  ations  
U N headquarters 
 [or obvious equivalents including  
United Nations 
 or  
UN 
] 
[10] Among the architects who worked on the UN headquarters was this man, who also designed the 
Pampulha suburb for his patron Juscelino Kubitschek. As of 2010, this 102-year-old architect is still 
working, and recently designed a statue of an American monster about to eat some Cubans. 
ANSWER: Oscar  
Niemeyer 
 Soares Filho 
[10] Niemeyer's most ambitious project for Kubitschek was this airplane-shaped planned capital of his 
South American homeland. 
ANSWER:  
Brasilia 
019-09-12-04213 
14. In 1829, the Georgia state legislature offered a ten thousand dollar reward for the capture of this 
abolitionist alive. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this abolitionist who argued that blacks should \"kill or be killed\" rather than let themselves be 
enslaved in his  
Appeal to the Colored Citizens of the World. 
ANSWER: David  
Walker 
[10] Walker's  
Appeal 
 mocks the arguments that blacks are naturally inferior found in this author's  
Notes on 
the State of Virginia, 
 contrasting them with the principles this man put forth in the Declaration of 
Independence. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Jefferson 
[10] These sisters, who were born to a slaveholding family in South Carolina, were regularly attacked for 
daring to speak publicly in favor of abolition. They edited Theodore Weld's book  
American Slavery as It Is, 
written by the husband of the older sister, Angelina. 
ANSWER:  
Grimke 
 sisters [or Sarah  
Grimke 
 and Angelina  
Grimke Weld 
  ] 
004-09-12-04214 
15. These sounds are characterized by features such as height, backness, and roundedness. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name these sounds that do not have a obstruction of the oral tract and are syllabic. 
ANSWER:  
vowel 
s 
[10] This vowel shift in American English, which began with the raising of the short A, has seen changes in 
short vowels in cities like Chicago and Buffalo. 
ANSWER:  
Northern Cities Vowel Shift 
 [or  
Northern Cities Shift 
] 
[10] These are gliding vowels that see a blended transition from one position to another. They result from 
two vowels next to each other as in “about.” 
ANSWER:  
diphthong 
s 
001-09-12-04215 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  11 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. One character in this novel loses his virginity to Rosalba, and becomes the president of the River 
Company of the Caribbean. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Florentino Ariza raises a yellow flag on a boat, condemning it never to dock, 
after waiting over fifty years for the husband of Fermina Daza to die. 
ANSWER:  
Love in the Time of Cholera 
 [or  
El  amor en los tiempos del cólera 
] 
[10] This Colombian author of  
Love in the Time of Cholera 
 may be better known for his magical realist 
novel about the Buendia family. 
ANSWER: Gabriel  
Garcia Marquez 
[10] At the age of twenty-one, Fermina marries this doctor instead of Florentino. He cheats on her with 
Barbara Lynch, and dies after falling off a mango tree which he climbed to retrieve his pet parrot. 
ANSWER: Dr. Juvenal  
Urbino 
 [or Dr.  
Juvenal 
 Urbino] 
040-09-12-04216 
17. In the left front of a work purporting to depict a bust of this man, a naked woman holds her right hand 
to her face, in front of two arches. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author, whose \"Disappearing Bust\" may appear in the midst of a Slave Market in a certain 
painting. 
ANSWER:  
Voltaire 
 [or Francois-Marie  
Arouet 
; or  
Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of  Voltaire 
] 
[10] This surrealist artist painted  
Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire 
 along with  
Soft 
Construction with Boiled Beans 
 and a work showing some melted clocks. 
ANSWER: Salvador  
Dali 
 [Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto  
Dalí 
 i Domènech, 1st Marquis of  
Púbol 
(accept either underlined part)] 
[10]  
Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire 
 was painted 16 years after this man defined 
surrealism as \"pure psychic automatism\" in his  
Surrealist Manifesto 
. 
ANSWER: Andre  
Breton 
064-09-12-04217 
18. Transport of proteins into these structures is achieved by the Tic and Toc translocons. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name these organelles that are the site of photosynthesis in plant cells. 
ANSWER:  
chloroplast 
s 
[10] These parts of the chloroplasts are the site of the light reactions and are organized into stacks known as 
grana. 
ANSWER:  
thylakoid 
s 
[10] This iron-containing electron carrier found in the thylakoid can transfer its electrons to NADP+ to 
make NADPH in non-cyclic photophosphorylation, or to the cytochrome b6f complex in ATP-forming 
cyclic photophosphorylation. 
ANSWER:  
ferredoxin 
028-09-12-04218 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  12 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. The chief center of worship for these Pieria-born figures was Mount Helicon. For 10 points each: 
[10] The globe and compass were the symbols of Urania, one of these figures that personified literature and 
the arts, and whose numbers also included Melpomene, Erato, and Euterpe. 
ANSWER:  
Muses 
[10] The sea god Achelous was said to have fathered the Sirens with this lyre-playing muse of dance and 
the dramatic chorus. 
ANSWER:  
Terpsichore 
[10] Clio was the mother of this cult figure, who is killed by a discus blown back by the jealous Zephyr 
while playing with his admirer Apollo. His blood was then transformed into a namesake flower. 
ANSWER:  
Hyacinth Hyacinthus 
   [accept either] 
030-09-12-04219 
20. Both R. G. Collingwood and Benedetto Croce defined this discipline as the expression of emotions. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this discipline. Tolstoy argued that it should be \"sincere\" and \"infect\" others with feeling in a 
book whose title questions what it is. 
ANSWER: works of  
art 
 [or clear-knowledge equivalents] 
[10] This branch of philosophy studies art and beauty. 
ANSWER:  
aesthetics 
[10] This philosopher wrote about the aesthetics of judgment in his essay \"Of the Standard of Taste.\" He 
argued that ideas result from impressions in  
An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding 
, which 
presented arguments he first made in  
A Treatise of Human Nature 
. 
ANSWER: David  
Hume 
004-09-12-04220 
21. In this novel, Mr. Dambreuse is a banker whose wife has an affair with its main character. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this novel in a College of Sens graduate retreives a ball of yarn for Mrs. Arnoux before having a 
lengthy affair with her. 
ANSWER:  
A  Sentimental Education 
 [or  
L’Éducation sentimentale 
] 
[10] The landowner Rodolphe Boulanger appears in this novel as one of the lovers of the title character, 
who is not very faithful to her husband, the doctor Charles. 
ANSWER:  
Madame Bovary 
[10] Both  
A Sentimental Education 
 and  
Madame Bovary 
 were written by this author, who considered his 
novel  
The Temptation of Saint Anthony 
 to be his masterwork. 
ANSWER: Gustave  
Flaubert 
040-09-12-04221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 4     Page  13 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
