This is page 1 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2015  
Round 5  
First Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. In October 2014, this company began to collect sales tax on purchases made by customers in  
Minnesota and Maryland. The “Authors United” campaign has criticized this company’s  
negotiation tactics with the publishing house Hachette. In August 2014, this company purchased  
the website Twitch, and in 2013, this company’s owner purchased  The Washington Post . A  
December 2013  60 Minutes  report on this company revealed that it hoped to begin making  
deliveries by drone. For 10 points, name this online retailer founded in 1994 by Jeff Bezos.  
ANSWER:  Amazon .com  
2. In this video game, Mercury has been turned into a machine planet by the Vex. Antagonists in  
this game include the Fallen, the Cabal, and the Hive. This game takes place in the twenty-eighth  
century after an event called the “Collapse,” during which select members of humanity were  
saved by the “Traveler.” For 10 points, name this first-person shooter game in which players  
play as customizable Guardians who use a power called the “light” in their attempts to defend the  
last city on Earth.  
ANSWER:  Destiny   
3. This culture believed in five sequential ages ruled by five different sun gods. A god of these  
people defeats his four hundred elder brothers immediately after he is born. This civilization  
legendarily built a city after seeing an eagle perched on a cactus, grasping a snake. A god of  
these people is defeated by Tezcatlipoca (TETZ-cat-lee-POH-kuh) and sails away on a raft of  
snakes. For 10 points, name this civilization whose feathered serpent deity Quetzalcoatl (KET- 
sul-coh-AA-tul) was confused with the conquistador Hernan Cortes (air-NAHN cor-TEZ).  
ANSWER:  Aztec s  
4. For a photon, energy is equal to this quantity times the speed of light. For other bodies, kinetic  
energy is equal to this quantity squared over twice the mass. For a wave, it is calculated as  
Planck’s constant over the wavelength. Force is the rate of change of this quantity, and impulse  
is the total change in it. It is conserved in both inelastic and elastic collisions. For 10 points,  
identify this quantity which is the product of mass and velocity.  
ANSWER: linear  momentum  [do not accept “angular momentum”]  
5. This man founded what became the tabloid paper  The New York Post . He was embarrassed by  
his affair with Maria Reynolds, and both he and his son were killed in Weehawken, New Jersey.  
In his “Report on Public Credit,” this man proposed that the federal government assume the  
Revolutionary War debts of states. He joined John Jay and James Madison in writing essays  
promoting the ratification of the Constitution. This man was eventually killed in a duel with rival  
Aaron Burr. For 10 points, name this Federalist leader and first Secretary of the Treasury.  
ANSWER: Alexander  Hamilton 
This is page 2 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. A region of this organ may be distinguished by immune tissue called Peyer’s patches, and its  
Brunner’s glands secrete bicarbonate. An enzyme secreted by this organ converts trypsinogen  
(trip-SIN-uh-jen) into trypsin. This organ absorbs fats through the lacteals in its villi. The  
pancreatic duct supplies this organ with bile and alkaline juices to buffer against the acidic  
chyme (KIME) it receives through the pyloric sphincter, which connects to its duodenum (doo- 
AHD-uh-num). For 10 points, name this organ that receives food contents from the stomach.  
ANSWER:  small intestine  [prompt on  intestine s]  
7. The largest lion subspecies, now extinct in the wild, was last found in this country. This  
country refers to a disputed territory as the Southern Provinces, one-third of which is controlled  
by the Polisario (poh-lee-SAH-ree-oh) Front. Blond hair is common among the natives of this  
country’s coastal Rif mountains. This country recognizes Berber as an official language, and its  
highest point, Toubkal, is part of the High Atlas Mountains. For 10 points, the territory of  
Western Sahara is claimed by what North African country, whose largest city is Casablanca?  
ANSWER:  Morocco  [Kingdom of  Morocco ; or Al Mamlakah al  Maghrib iyah]  
8. This quantity and entropy are the natural variables of internal energy. If this quantity doesn’t  
change, then a system undergoes no flow work. Pressure times this quantity has units of energy.  
Avogadro’s law sets the number of moles proportional to this property. The ideal gas law  
assumes this quantity is zero for individual particles. Molarity is defined as moles of solute  
divided by this property of the solution. At STP, this property for one mole of gas equals 22.4  
liters. For 10 points, name this measurement of the amount of space an object takes up.  
ANSWER:  volume  [or  ]  V 
9. A phrase from this play titles a novel in which Alfio Marullo gives his shop to Ethan Hawley,  
written by John Steinbeck. A character in this play admits he “cannot prove a lover,” resolving  
instead to “prove a villain.” The opening speech of this play declares the “sun of York” has made  
“glorious summer” of the “winter of our discontent.” The title character of this play cries, “A  
horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse!” before being killed during the Battle of Bosworth Field.  
For 10 points, name this Shakespeare history about a villainous king.  
ANSWER:  Richard III  [or  The Tragedy of King  Richard the Third ]  
10. Laborers producing this material were removed from “a state of slavery or bondage” in a  
1775 Scottish law, and the safety of its extraction was improved by the Geordie lamp. A  
“paradox” of energy efficiency was proposed in a book about this material’s “question” by  
William Jevons. It was converted using beehive ovens into a fuel for smelting iron, and it was  
used to create steam for James Watt’s engine. For 10 points, coke relied on what fuel which can  
be lignite, bituminous (bye-TOO-muh-nus), or anthracite?  
ANSWER:  coal 
This is page 3 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. In a play by this author, the title character is upset that a writer’s death in a brothel is not as  
beautiful as the death she envisioned for him. The title character of that play by this man shoots  
herself after being blackmailed by Judge Brack. This author also created a woman who forged  
her father’s signature to take out a loan for a trip to Italy without the knowledge of her husband,  
Torvald. For 10 points, name this Norwegian playwright of  Hedda Gabler  who wrote about Nora  
Helmer in  A Doll’s House.   
ANSWER: Henrik  Ibsen  
12. This country’s Decree 770 restricted access to abortion in an attempt to raise its flagging  
birth rate. This country was the only Warsaw Pact member to oppose the 1968 invasion of  
Czechoslovakia. Ion Antonescu (an-tah-NESK-yoo) was removed from power by a coup led by  
this country’s King Michael in 1944, which also led to the country joining the Allies. For 10  
points, name this country which was led by Nicolae Ceausescu (chow-CHESS-ku) during the  
latter half of the Cold War from its capital of Bucharest.  
ANSWER:  Romania   
13. Techniques used in this dance form include the cramp roll and the scuff. Its pioneers include  
the vaudeville act Buck and Bubbles. This dance was featured in  Bring In ‘da Noise, Bring In  
‘da Funk  by choreographer Savion Glover. Gene Kelly performs this kind of dance in the title  
number of “Singin’ in the Rain.” This dance comes in rhythm and Broadway varieties, and it  
developed from clog and step dancing. For 10 points, name this jazz dance style whose  
performers rhythmically hit the floor with their shoes.  
ANSWER:  tap  dance  
14. In a story from this collection, a reverend breaks the bell tower window with his fist after  
seeing the local schoolteacher praying naked. This collection includes “The Strength of God”  
and a story about the disgraced homosexual Wing Biddlebaum, entitled “Hands.” In this  
collection’s final story, “Departure,” George Willard leaves the title town for the city. For 10  
points, name this short story collection by Sherwood Anderson set in the Midwest.  
ANSWER:  Winesburg, Ohio   
15. The Lords of Xibalba (shuh-BAHL-buh) designed a series of trials to test some beings with  
this relationship, named Hunahpu (hoo-NAH-poo) and Xbalanque (shee-buh-LAHN-kay).  
Amphion (AMF-ee-ahn) and Niobe’s (nye-OH-bee’s) children were killed by deities with this  
relationship to each other. This is the relationship of the Dioscuri (dye-usk-YOO-ree) born to  
Leda, who are immortalized in the constellation Gemini. For 10 points, name the relationship of  
Artemis and Apollo and of Castor and Pollux.  
ANSWER:  twins  [prompt on  brothers ; prompt on  siblings ; prompt on  brother and sister ] 
This is page 4 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 5  
Directed Round   
1A. What untuned instrument, traditionally made from a ram’s horn, is blown during services for  
Rosh Hashanah (rohsh ha-SHAH-nah) and Yom Kippur (yahm kee-POOR)?  
ANSWER:  shofar   
1B. What type of verb is used to express actions that are done to oneself, such as in the Spanish  
sentence “Me lave la cara” (may lah-VAY lah cah-rah), meaning “I washed my face?”  
ANSWER:  reflexive  verbs [or verbos  reflexivo s]  
2A. Name the probe from the  Rosetta  spacecraft which successfully landed on Comet 67P in  
November 2014.  
ANSWER:  Philae   
2B. Name the 1773 to 1775 Cossack uprising against Catherine the Great which attempted to  
eliminate serfdom.  
ANSWER:  Pugachev ’s Rebellion  
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Given that the cosecant of an angle theta equals  
one-fourth times the square root of 41, what are the two possible values for the tangent of theta?  
ANSWER:  4/5 and -4/5  [or  0.8 and -0.8 ; or  plus or minus 4/5 ; or  plus or minus 0.8 ]  
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. A and B are independent events. The probability of  
event A is 1/3. The probability of event B is 3/8. What is the probability that neither event A nor  
event B occurs?  
ANSWER:  5/12  [or  10/24 ]  
4A. What man wrote the words to “The Star-Spangled Banner” while watching the bombardment  
of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812?  
ANSWER: Francis Scott  Key   
4B. What confederation of Northern European cities, with a capital at Lübeck, dominated trade  
in the Baltic and North Seas during the late Middle Ages?  
ANSWER:  Hanseatic League  [or  Hansa ]  
5A. What 2014 sequel film featured a jewel thief named Constantine, who is an exact duplicate  
of Kermit the Frog?  
ANSWER:  Muppets Most Wanted  [exact answer required; do not prompt on “The Muppets”] 
This is page 5 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5B. One organism steals food or materials from another in the “klepto-” form of what species  
interaction, contrasted with commensalism (cuh-MEN-suh-liz-m) and mutualism?  
ANSWER:  parasitism  [or  parasite s]  
6A. What generalization of Rolle’s (RUL’s) Theorem states that, for a curve between points a  
and b, there exists a tangent on the curve with the same slope as the secant connecting a and b?  
ANSWER:  mean value  theorem [or  MVT ]  
6B. What Art Nouveau creator of  Girl with Cherry Blossoms  was known for his opalescent  
stained glass windows and lamps?  
ANSWER: Louis Comfort  Tiffany   
7A. What metrical foot, which can be thought of as the “opposite” of an anapest (AA-nuh-pest),  
consists of one stressed syllable followed by two unstressed syllables?  
ANSWER:  dactyl   
7B. When performing a hypothesis test, the power of a test equals one minus the probability of  
making what type of error?  
ANSWER:  Type II  error [or  failing to reject the null hypothesis when it is false ; or  accepting  
the null hypothesis when it is false ; prompt on  failing to reject the null hypothesis ; prompt on  
accepting the null hypothesis ]  
8A. This is a 30-second calculation question. According to a recipe, I can bake my cake in either  
a circular pan with height 1 inch and radius 8 inches, or a rectangular pan with height 1 inch,  
width 10 inches, and length n inches. To the nearest integer, what is n?  
ANSWER:  20  inches  
8B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Two hours ago, there were 5400 gallons of water in  
a tank. At the present time, there are 3600 gallons of water in the tank. If an inverse variation  
between time and the volume of water in the tank exists, how much water will be in the tank two  
hours from now?  
ANSWER:  2700  gallons  
9A. What Kazuo Ishiguro (KAHZ-whoa ee-shee-GOO-roh) novel is narrated by Lord  
Darlington’s loyal butler Stevens?  
ANSWER:  The  Remains of the Day   
9B. What proto-surrealist French poet wrote  A Season in Hell  and “The Drunken Boat”?  
ANSWER: Arthur  Rimbaud   
10A. What dormant volcano on the Island of Hawaii is home to a namesake astronomical  
observatory complex on its summit?  
ANSWER:  Mauna Kea 
This is page 6 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
10B. What Ralph Ellison novel is narrated by an unnamed black man who joins the  
Brotherhood?  
ANSWER:  Invisible Man  [do not accept “The Invisible Man”] 
This is page 7 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 5  
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. The iTunes version of this album features a bonus track entitled “I Found A Boy.” The music  
video for a song from this album is shot in black and white and shows the singer walking through  
Paris alone. A song from this album features the lyrics “you made a fool out of me and boy  
you’re bringing me down” and is called “Rumour Has It.” This album’s debut single opens with  
the line “There’s a fire starting in my heart.” For 10 points, name this album by Adele (uh-DEL),  
which features the hits “Someone Like You” and “Rolling In The Deep.”  
ANSWER:    21 
2. This man wrote about a changing society by using an analogy of “a polar night of icy  
darkness.” Such a bureaucratic society, according to this man, traps individuals in an “iron cage”  
based on hierarchy and division of labor. This thinker is best known for describing how Calvinist  
religions prompted Europeans to work harder at capitalist businesses. For 10 points, name this  
German sociologist who wrote  The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism .  
ANSWER: Max  Weber  [Karl Emil Maximilian  Weber ]  
3. This artist painted a white-faced clown in his unfinished  The Circus.  This artist set his most  
famous painting on the opposite bank of the Seine (SEN) as his earlier canvas  Bathers at  
Asnières  (an-YAIR)  With Paul Signac (SEEN-yak), he developed divisionism. One of his  . 
paintings features a woman in the foreground with a fishing rod and a monkey on a leash, and is  
made using his trademark small dots of color. For 10 points, name this painter of  Sunday  
Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte  (lah GRAHN jot)  who created pointillism.  , 
ANSWER: Georges-Pierre  Seurat   
4. The nabla symbol is an upside-down version of this capital letter. This letter names an angle  
formed by the intersection of two tangent lines. It also names a function that integrates to the  
Heaviside step function; two versions of that function are named after Kronecker and Dirac. This  
letter is commonly used as shorthand for both the determinant of a coefficient matrix and the  
discriminant. This letter is paired with epsilon in a common definition of a limit. For 10 points,  
give this Greek letter that often stands for the change in a variable.  
ANSWER:  delta  [do not accept “d”]  
5. After this event, the President quoted a poem describing people slipping “the surly bonds of  
Earth to touch the face of God.” The Rogers Commission, which investigated this event,  
included Richard Feynman and Chuck Yeager. It killed a schoolteacher named Christa  
McAuliffe. This event was caused by the failure of an O-ring seal, which led to the destruction of  
a vehicle taking off from Cape Canaveral. For 10 points, name this 1986 disaster when a NASA  
Space Shuttle exploded during its launch.  
ANSWER:  Challenger  disaster 
This is page 8 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. This man’s campaigns were partially funded by Haitian president Alexandre Petion. The  
British Legion, led by James Rooke, joined him at Carabobo. This man was assisted by his future  
vice president, Francisco Santander, at the Battle of Boyacá (boy-uh-CAH). This man joined  
Antonio José de Sucre (ho-SAY day SOO-cay) for a campaign in Peru, two years after meeting  
with José de San Martín at the Guayaquil (guy-uh-KEEL) Conference. For 10 points, name this  
first president of Gran Colombia, a South American revolutionary known as “The Liberator.”  
ANSWER: Simon  Bolivar   
7. In plants, cytoplasmic strands tug this organelle around the cell and clear a path for its  
migration. Cargo can be transported into this organelle with the help of importins. Lamins (LAH- 
minz) in this structure are broken down during mitosis and may regulate chromatin (KROH- 
muh-tin) organization. Its namesake envelope is contiguous with the rough ER; in eukaryotes  
(yoo-CARE-ee-oats), this organelle is the site of transcription. For 10 points, name this organelle  
that controls gene expression and often contains a nucleolus.  
ANSWER:  nucleus   
8. This author wrote two versions of a long prose romance called  The Countess of Pembroke’s  
Arcadia.  He argued against contemporary denunciations of literature as a corrupting art in his  
The Defense of Poesy.  This poet also wrote a sonnet sequence fictionalizing his love for  
Penelope Rich. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan poet and nobleman who wrote  Astrophil  
(AA-stroh-fil)  and Stella.   
ANSWER: Philip  Sidney   
9. The complex numbers are algebraically closed because at least one of these things exists for  
all polynomials. Niels Abel proved there is no general method for finding these numbers for  
functions of a high enough degree. Given a function, Descartes’ Rule of Signs gives an upper  
bound for the number of real ones of these things. They can be found for some polynomials by  
factoring the polynomial into linear terms. For 10 points, name these values of a function’s  
domain when the function equals zero.  
ANSWER:  root  of a polynomial [or  solution  to a polynomial equation; or  zero  of a function  
until “zero” is read; do not accept “square root”]  
10. This man miraculously crushed a rock during the Battle of the Trench. He rode the horse  
Buraq as part of a trip known as the “Night Journey.” This man married a child known as Aisha  
(eye-EE-shuh), who was his favorite wife after his first, the wealthy Khadija (kuh-DEE-juh).  
This person’s uniqueness is testified to in the Shahada (shuh-HAH-duh). His teachings are  
recorded in collections known as the Hadith. During the Hijra (HEHJ-ruh), this man fled from  
Mecca to Medina. For 10 points, name this final prophet and founder of Islam.  
ANSWER:  Muhammad 
This is page 9 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. This group was the subject of the bull  Vox in excelsio  (VOCKS in eck-SEL-see-oh), which  
contradicted the secret Chinon (shih-NAHN) parchment. This group was founded by Hugh de  
Payens and condemned at the Council of Vienne (vee-EHN), after which its final leader, Jacques  
de Molay, was burned at the stake by Philip the Fair. For 10 points, name this religious and  
military order founded to protect Christian pilgrims to the site of a former holy building in  
Jerusalem.  
ANSWER: Knights  Templar  [or  Templars ; or Order of the  Temple ; or  Poor Fellow-Soldiers  
of Christ  and of the Temple of Solomon]  
12. When climbing this mountain, Bradford Washburn proved that Frederick Cook’s 1906 ascent  
never happened. The 1910 “Sourdough Expedition” climbed the North Summit of this mountain.  
Just southeast of this mountain in its namesake national park is a highly difficult-to-climb peak  
known as Mount Hubbard or “The Moose’s Tooth.” This peak’s native name is “Denali” (duh- 
NAH-lee), which also names the national park in the Alaska Range where it is found. For 10  
points, name this highest mountain in North America.  
ANSWER: Mount  McKinley  [or Mount  Denali  until “Denali” is read]  
13. The protagonist of this novel flirts with women in the Lavender Room before being forced to  
pick up their tab. In this novel, the protagonist’s roommate Stradlater goes on a date with his ex- 
girlfriend, Jane Gallagher. The protagonist’s brother Allie died before the events of this novel,  
and his sister Phoebe ends this novel riding a carousel in Coney Island. This book opens as the  
administration of Pencey Prep decides to expel Holden Caulfield. For 10 points, name this novel  
by J. D. Salinger.  
ANSWER:  The  Catcher in the Rye   
14. According to Benford’s Law, this number is the most common leading digit across a set of  
data points. If two events are complementary, then the sum of their probabilities equals this  
value. The infinite sum of one-half, one-fourth, one-eighth, one-sixteenth, and so on, converges  
to this value. A number raised to the power of zero equals this number, as does zero factorial.  
For 10 points, identify this number that is paired with zero in the binary number system.  
ANSWER:  one   
15. This war is the backdrop for the Buster Keaton comedy film  The General . It is the subject of  
the first part of a film adaptation of a Thomas Dixon novel, about two families called the  
Stonemans and the Camerons. That film about this war was directed by D.W. Griffith and is  
titled  The Birth of a Nation . In another film about this war, Rhett Butler and Scarlett O’Hara  
manage to survive the burning of their city. For 10 points, name this war, which is depicted in  
the Georgia-set epic  Gone With the Wind  and the Steven Spielberg-directed  Lincoln.   
ANSWER: American  Civil  War 
This is page 10 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 5  
Tiebreaker/replacement questions   
1. Although it is better known for its shipwrecks, the Skeleton Coast of Namibia was named for  
the bones of these animals. The former South African exclave of Walvis Bay takes its name from  
these animals. Ambergris, a substance formed in these animals’ digestive systems, was a  
common ingredient in perfumes. In response to a ban on the commercial hunting of these  
animals, Japan formed the Institute of Cetacean Research. For 10 points, name these sea- 
dwelling animals, whose “blue” variety is the largest animal in existence.  
ANSWER:  whale s [or  Cetacea  until it is read]  
2. The Kaluza-Klein theory unifies electromagnetism with this phenomenon, whose namesake  
waves are observed by LIGO and VIRGO. This phenomenon, whose “lensing” can cause light to  
bend around massive objects, also bends the fabric of spacetime according to general relativity.  
This phenomenon, the weakest of the four fundamental forces, is proportional to the product of  
two masses divided by the distance between them squared. For 10 points, name this force that  
causes objects to fall to Earth.  
ANSWER:  gravity  [or  gravitation ; or  gravity  waves; or  gravitational lensing ]  
3. A character in this novel paints a hoof and a horn on a green flag before hoisting it. Another  
character in this novel has the motto “I will work harder.” In this novel, sheep are taught the  
principle, “four legs good, two legs bad,” though that and the other Commandments are  
ultimately reduced to “all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.” For  
10 points, name this allegory of Stalinism written by George Orwell.  
ANSWER:  Animal Farm   
4. This group was led during the Civil War by Stand Watie. A member of this group, Elias  
Boudinot, was assassinated for signing the Treaty of New Echota. The missionary Samuel  
Worcester lived with these people and sparked a Supreme Court case which allegedly inspired  
the president to say “now let him enforce it!” This tribe’s alphabet was created by Sequoyah. For  
10 points, name this “Civilized Tribe” which was forcibly relocated to Oklahoma on the Trail of  
Tears.  
ANSWER:  Cherokee  [or  Tsalagi ]  
5. A sculpture commonly named after this deity, made from oolitic (OH-uh-lit-ik) limestone and  
painted in red ochre (OH-kur), has a head covered in a braided pattern. That sculpture is a  
Paleolithic figurine anachronistically called this deity “of Willendorf” (VIL-un-dorf). A marble  
sculpture named for this goddess, long thought to be the work of Praxiteles (prak-SIT-uh-leez),  
was discovered on a namesake Greek island and is known for its now-missing arms. For 10  
points, a sculpture “of Milo” is named after what Roman goddess of love?  
ANSWER:  Venus 
This is page 11 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 5 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
What substance was licked by the primeval Norse cow Audhumbla (ah-DOOM-bluh) to liberate  
Ymir (IM-eer), a giant?  
ANSWER:  ice  [or  frost ; do not accept “water”]  
This is a calculation question. Find all values theta on the interval from 0 to 360 degrees,  
inclusive, such that cotangent squared theta minus 2 cotangent theta equals negative 1.  
ANSWER:  45  degrees and  225  degrees [do not accept answers with more or fewer than two  
values] 
