2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This American city is home to the first restaurant opened by  
Iron Chef 
 contestant Masaharu Morimoto. 
This city’s Chestnut Hill neighborhood is bordered by the gorge of Wissahickon Creek. The Reading 
Terminal Market is located in its Center City district. This city was the terminus of a Main Line of a 
railroad that built stations in Baltimore and New York. This city lies on the Schuylkill and Delaware 
Rivers. For 10 points, name this Pennsylvania “city of brotherly love”. 
ANSWER:  
Philadelphia 
232-13-90-05101 
2. When found in the interstellar medium, this substance usually contains a methanol component and is 
amorphous. Lake Vostok was found under a large mass of this substance. Large structures that consist of 
this substance are created by calving, which can occur to shelves of this substance. The most common form 
of this substance has a hexagonal lattice due to hydrogen bonding, which makes it less dense than its liquid 
form. For 10 points, identify this solid form of water. 
ANSWER:  
ice 
 [prompt on  
water 
; prompt on  
H O 
2 
] 
066-13-90-05102 
3. It’s not glaucoma, but the antibody bapineuzumab has been tested as a way to treat this disease. It was 
named for a German psychiatrist who examined a woman named Auguste D. The amyloid hypothesis 
proposes that beta-amyloid deposits cause this disease, while the cholinergic hypothesis proposes it is 
caused by reduced acetylcholine. It has debilitating effects on short-term and long-term memory. For 10 
points, name this most common form of dementia that is prevalent among older people. 
ANSWER:  
Alzheimer’s 
 disease [or  
AD 
, prompt on  
dementia 
] 
052-13-90-05103 
4. One character in this play discusses how copies of the complete works of Shakespeare and the 
Constitution will go into a time capsule under a new bank before a choir enters singing \"Blessed Be the Tie 
that Binds.\" In act III of this play, a woman who died in childbirth travels back to her twelfth birthday after 
talking to her fellow dead spirits in a cemetery. The Stage Manager periodically interrupts the action of this 
play, which deals with the adolescence and marriage of George Gibbs and Emily Webb. For 10 points, 
name this Thornton Wilder play about life in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire, the title municipality. 
ANSWER:  
Our Town 
080-13-90-05104 
5. This lawyer won freedom for the slaves who mutinied aboard the  
Amistad, 
 As Secretary of State, this 
man negotiated the treaty in which the U.S. received Florida from Spain, and was largely responsible for 
formulating the Monroe Doctrine. This president made Henry Clay his Secretary of State. For 10 points, 
name this sixth president of the United States, the son of the second president. 
ANSWER: John  
Quincy Adams 
 [or  
J.Q. Adams 
; prompt on  
Adams 
; do not accept or prompt on \"John 
Adams\"] 
080-13-90-05105 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  1 of 9 
6. While studying at Ingolstadt, this character is inspired when he sees lightning strike a tree with immense 
power. This character is rescued, half-frozen, by Captain Robert Walton, whose letters provide the frame 
narrative of the novel in which he appears. This friend of Henry Clerval is engaged to marry Elizabeth 
Lavenza, who is killed on their wedding night. For 10 points, identify this title character of a Mary Shelley 
novel, a scientist who brings his namesake \"monster\" to life. 
ANSWER: Victor  
Frankenstein 
233-13-90-05106 
7. In September 2013, the government of Hong Kong announced that this item will no longer be served at 
governmental functions. As of July 2013, the sale or possession of these items is illegal in California, 
despite claims that the law disproportionately affected Asian-Americans. These items sell for $350 a 
pound, and are used in traditional Chinese holiday soups. For 10 points, name these parts of a predatory 
fish whose harvesting is opposed by environmentalists. 
ANSWER:  
shark fin 
s [prompt on partial answer] 
019-13-90-05107 
8. In this author's first play, Karl Moor kills his lover Amalia after the accusations of his brother Franz 
force him to live with the title outlaws. This author depicted the last days of Mary, Queen of Scots in  
Mary 
Stuart 
. This author of  
The Robbers 
 penned the line \"Be embraced, millions!\" in a poem addressing its 
subject as the \"daughter of Elysium.\" He occasionally collaborated with his contemporary, Johann 
Wolfgang von Goethe. For 10 points, name this German Romantic poet and playwright, the author of \"Ode 
to Joy.\" 
ANSWER: Friedrich  
Schiller 
080-13-90-05108 
9. In this novel, Marcela defends her decision to refuse to marry after it results in the death-by-heartbreak 
of the student Chrysostom. This novel's protagonist starts a brawl at an inn by insisting that a basin is the 
mythical Helmet of Mambrino. The protagonist of this novel sallies out on the nag Rocinante with his 
down-to-earth companion Sancho Panza, who pleads with him not to attack a group of windmills. For 10 
points, name this comic novel by Miguel de Cervantes about a Spanish nobleman who thinks he is a 
chivalric hero. 
ANSWER:  
Don Quixote  de La Mancha 
080-13-90-05109 
10. The record for the most of this type of stat earned in an NHL season is held by George Hainsworth, and 
Alec Connell's streak of nearly eight games of keeping up this stat is the record for the longest streak. In the 
modern era, the longest streak of this type lasted over five games for Brian Boucher. The 121 career games 
of this type are a record held by Martin Brodeur. For 10 points, name this type of hockey game that is 
achieved when a goalie manages to hold an opponent scoreless. 
ANSWER: ice hockey  
shutout 
s [accept equivalent answers such as  
holding an opponent scoreless 
 before 
read] 
023-13-90-05110 
11. This value divided by the square root of the sample size appears in the denominator of the t-value. 
When it is known for a population, the z-score is calculated by subtracting the mean and then dividing by 
this value. For a normal distribution, about 68% of observations are within the range of the mean plus or 
minus this value. It is the square root of the variance. For 10 points, name this value which summarizes the 
dispersion of values in a sample. 
ANSWER:  
standard deviation 
121-13-90-05111 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  2 of 9 
12. Chicago is home to this man's sculpture of Philip Sheridan atop his horse. To commemorate James 
McConnell, this man created a winged bronze nude titled  
The Aviator 
. The KKK helped pay for the 
commission of this man's work of art at the site of their refounding. This carver of Stone Mountain is 
best-known for his depiction of the heads of Teddy Roosevelt, Lincoln, Jefferson, and Washington on a 
cliff face in South Dakota. For 10 points, identify this sculptor responsible for Mount Rushmore. 
ANSWER: Gutzon  
Borglum 
233-13-90-05112 
13. This period traditionally begins with the victory of Pelagius at the Battle of Covadonga. A battle during 
this period led to the downfall of the Almohads, who were defeated by Alfonso VIII at Las Navas de 
Tolosa. This period, which resulted in the continuous shrinking of Al-Andalus, ended in 1492 with Isabella 
and Ferdinand’s capture of Granada. For 10 points, name this several centuries long period during which 
Christian states took back the Iberian Peninsula from Muslim states. 
ANSWER: La  
Reconquista 
 [or The  
Reconquest 
] 
149-13-90-05113 
14. This author collected Floridian folktales that would be used in a play written with Langston Hughes 
titled  
Mule Bone 
. This writer set many literary works in Eatonville, where one character discovers love by 
watching bees pollinate a pear tree. That character escapes from Logan Killicks and Jody Starks. This 
author wrote about Tea Cake dying of rabies during the Okeechobee hurricane in her novel about Janie 
Crawford. For 10 points, name this author of  
Their Eyes Were Watching God 
. 
ANSWER: Zora Neale  
Hurston 
232-13-90-05114 
15. Radomiro Tomic was a leader of a faction of this country's Christian Democratic party who supported 
its nationalization of copper. The Christian Democrat's split in 1970 helped the socialist candidate win the 
presidency. The “Chicago Boys” were American trained economists who advised one of its leaders, a man 
whose coup overthrew Salvador Allende (eye-EN-day). For 10 points, name this South American country 
at one time run by Augusto Pinochet. 
ANSWER:  
Chile 
121-13-90-05115 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  Psychologist Martin Seligman tested \"learned helplessness\" by issuing electrical shocks to what type 
of animal? 
ANSWER:  
dog 
1B.  Tritium and deuterium are both what forms of hydrogen that have the same number of protons but a 
different number of neutrons? 
ANSWER:  
isotope 
s 
2A.  What gas law describes how the pressure of a gas decreases as the volume increases? 
ANSWER:  
Boyle’s 
 law [or Boyle- 
Mariotte 
 law] 
2B.  Which last-in, first-out data structures, which can sometimes overflow, are push and pop applied to? 
ANSWER:  
stack 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If the area of a trapezoid is 40 square units and the bases 
have length 6 and 10, what is the height? 
ANSWER:   units 
5 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If secant x equals four, what is cosine x? 
ANSWER:  
1/4 
4A.  What kind of minor scale raises both the sixth and seventh notes on the way up, but not the way 
down? 
ANSWER:  
melodic 
 minor scale 
4B.  “Hollywood” for the film industry or “the White House” for the president's office are examples of 
what figure of speech, where an object or concept is identified by a characteristic of it? 
ANSWER:  
metonym 
y 
5A.  What type of lakes are formed when the neck of a river's meander is cut off? 
ANSWER:  
oxbow 
 lakes 
5B.  What lake near St. Petersburg is the largest lake in Europe? 
ANSWER: Lake  
Ladoga 
6A.  What elementary particle is sought by the Large Hadron Collider and was tentatively confirmed to 
exist in March 2013? 
ANSWER:  
Higgs 
 boson 
6B.  Which artist featured a bunch of upside-down houses and a giant green-skinned man staring at a goat 
in  
I and the Village? 
ANSWER: Marc Zaharovich  
Chagall 
7A.  What TV show aired its final episode in September 2013, in which Fry accidentally stopped time by 
breaking Professor Farnsworth's device? 
ANSWER:  
Futurama 
7B.  What right-wing French politician preceded Nicolas Sarkozy as President? 
ANSWER: Jacques  
Chirac 
8A.  What Augustinian monk formulated two laws of inheritance from his study of pea plants? 
ANSWER: Gregor Johann  
Mendel 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  4 of 9 
8B.  Founded by Zeno of Citium in the third century BCE, what school of philosophy counted among its 
members Chrysippus, Seneca and Marcus Aurelius? 
ANSWER:  
Stoic 
ism 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. It costs $8.50 to buy two hamburgers and a soda. It costs 
$16.50 to buy three hamburgers and three sodas. What is the price of a hamburger? 
ANSWER: $ 
3.00 
 [or  
three dollars 
] 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The probability of you getting an A as your final grade in a 
class is 80% if you pass the exam and 30% if you do not. If the probability of you getting an A as your final 
grade is exactly 50%, what is the probability of you passing the exam? 
ANSWER:  
40% 
 [or  
0.4 
; or  
2/5 
; or equivalent fractions that simplify to  
2/5 
] 
10A.  What East Asian language uses the Hangul alphabet, which, in one country, is known as \"Choson 
mun\"? 
ANSWER:  
Korean 
10B.  What figure from Greek myth was given a cursed necklace, which caused problems for her, Cadmus, 
Jocasta, and others? 
ANSWER:  
Harmonia 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Chinese examples of these people founded a Daoist temple in Weaverville in Trinity County. Samuel 
Brannan made a fortune selling products to these people, as did Levi Strauss, who first began making blue 
jeans for these people. These people were motivated by a discovery made by James W. Marshall at Sutter’s 
Mill. Influx of these people led to the settlement of San Francisco. For 10 points, name these miners in the 
California Gold Rush from a namesake year. 
ANSWER:  
forty-niner 
s [or gold  
miner 
s until it is read] 
190-13-90-05117 
2. Dicyanoacetylene and cyanogen are known for producing an extreme form of this substance. In zero 
gravity, this substance has a spherical front because convection does not work. Sodium ions can be 
distinguished from potassium ones by using a test named for this substance, which is produced by a 
common laboratory apparatus named for Robert Bunsen. This substance sometimes consists of plasma 
formed from ionized gases, and it is the visible manifestation of combustion reactions. For 10 points, name 
this substance that requires oxygen, heat, and fuel to appear. 
ANSWER:  
fire 
 [or  
flame 
] 
020-13-90-05118 
3. A fight this musician had with Kathy Etchingham the lyric \"somewhere a king has no wife.\" Another 
song by this artist of \"The Wind Cries Mary\" appears with \"Hey Joe\" on his album  
Are You Experienced? 
and features the often misheard lyric \"Excuse me while I kiss the sky.\" He covered Bob Dylan's \"All Along 
the Watchtower\" for his album  
Electric Ladyland 
. For 10 points, name this electric guitarist who performed 
the final set at the Woodstock Music Festival and recorded \"Purple Haze.\" 
ANSWER: Jimi  
Hendrix 
080-13-90-05119 
4. The net electric flux through a surface is proportional to this quantity according to Gauss’s law. It was 
determined to be quantized by an experiment that balanced the buoyant and electric forces. The force 
exerted on a particle by a magnetic field is equal to this quantity times velocity cross the field strength, and 
current is equal to its negative time derivative. For 10 points, name this quantity measured in coulombs, 
which for an electron is negative. 
ANSWER: electric  
charge 
226-13-90-05120 
5. In this musical, one married couple sings “most of them are goners so they won’t miss much” in the 
song “One Day More.” Another song in this musical contains the lyrics “singing the song of angry men”; 
that song, “Do you hear the people sing?” is reprised after the protagonist dies in the arms of the newlywed 
couple Marius and Cosette. For 10 points, name this musical based on a novel about Jean Valjean written 
by Victor Hugo. 
ANSWER:  
Les Mis erables 
153-13-90-05121 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  6 of 9 
6. At the end of a poem by this man, the speaker blows a slug-horn after arriving at the “round squat turret” 
he was seeking. This author of dramatic monologues like “Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came” 
described a painting by Frà Pandolf of a woman who had “A heart-how shall I say?--too soon made glad.” 
That woman was the speaker's wife until he “gave commands; Then all smiles stopped together.” For 10 
points, name this author of “My Last Duchess” and husband to Elizabeth. 
ANSWER:  obert  
R Browning 
121-13-90-05122 
7. One poem in this collection describes a scientist whose \"charts and diagrams\" made the speaker \"tired 
and sick\" until he \"look'd up in perfect silence at the stars.\" The speaker of a poem in this collection asks, 
\"Do I contradict myself?\" and sounds his \"barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world.\" This collection 
includes \"When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer,\" \"Song of Myself,\" and an elegy for Abraham Lincoln, 
\"O Captain! my Captain!\" For 10 points, name this poetry collection by Walt Whitman. 
ANSWER:  
Leaves of Grass 
080-13-90-05123 
8. This quantity is measured by calculating the torque required to completely revolve a submerged spindle 
in a rheometer. For a plate atop a fluid, this quantity is the proportionality constant between the shear stress 
and the shear velocity. Water has a value of 1.002 centipoise for this quantity, which can be dynamic or 
kinematic, and which goes to zero in a superfluid. For 10 points, name this internal resistance of a fluid to 
flow, which is very high for honey. 
ANSWER:  
viscosity 
 [or  
dynamic viscosity 
; or  
kinematic viscosity 
] 
190-13-90-05124 
9. One poem by this man describes, “All nations striving strong to make/Red war yet redder.” Another 
poem by this man is subtitled “Lines on the loss of the ‘Titanic.’” In addition to “Channel Firing” and 
“Convergence of the Twain,” this man wrote a novel in which Michael Henchard drunkenly sells his wife 
and child to a sailor. In another of his novels, a stonecutter falls in love with Sue Bridehead. For 10 points, 
name this British author of  
The Mayor of Casterbridge 
 and  
Jude the Obscure 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Hardy 
030-13-90-05125 
10. A defect in part of this organelle can result in the disease progeria, in which people to seem to age 
prematurely. They contain irregularly shaped structures called paraspeckles and sub-organelles called 
“Cajal bodies.” It was the first organelle to be discovered and was once known as the “cytoblast.” These 
organelles consist of chromatin and contain a sub-structure which helps to make ribosomes. It is not found 
in prokaryotic cells and is surrounded by a membrane. For 10 points, name this organelle which contains 
the cell’s genetic material and is the control center. 
ANSWER:  
nucleus 
 [accept  
cytoblast 
 until mentioned] 
052-13-90-05126 
11. One poem of this name was published under the pen name of Glirastes by Horace Smith a month after 
the more well known poem of this name was published. Both poems of this name were inspired by 
accounts of the Roman historian Diodorus Siculus. The more well known poem of this name states, 
“Nothing beside remains” and describes, “Half sunk, a shattered visage.” For 10 points, name this poem 
that begins with the line, “I met a traveller from an antique land,” a work about a king who states, “Look 
on my works ye mighty and despair,” by Percy Bysshe Shelley. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ozymandias 
\" 
030-13-90-05127 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  7 of 9 
12. This country’s cities of Chumphon and Kra Buri are located at the narrowest part of the Isthmus of Kra. 
The Chi and Mnu rivers drain the Khorat Plateau in the northeastern part of this country. The headwaters of 
this country’s principal river include the Ping, Wang, and Yom, and that principal river of this country is 
the Chao Phraya. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian country with its capital at Bangkok. 
ANSWER:  
Thailand 
030-13-90-05128 
13. Kiesselbach's plexus is within this body part, which is the subject of a procedure called \"turbinectomy\". 
If it begins to bleed, epistaxis results. Impact trauma can lead to a deviation of the septum of this body part. 
Afrin is a product that is used on this body part. This is the central body part within the olfactory system, 
and rhinoplasty is corrective surgery applied to it. For 10 points, name this human body part responsible for 
smelling. 
ANSWER:  
nose 
052-13-90-05129 
14. Two officials of this city were convicted of conspiracy and bribery in the Synagro Sludge scandal. A 
former mayor of this city took an early hit to his public reputation when exotic dancer Tamara Greene was 
murdered after performing at a wild party held at Manoogian Mansion. Kevyn Orr's failure to negotiate a 
\"haircut\" led this city's current mayor, Dave Byng, to file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy in 2013. For 10 points, 
Kwame Kilpatrick led what Midwestern city with a bailed-out auto industry? 
ANSWER:  
Detroit 
020-13-90-05130 
15. John, the Duke of Berry, was the probable patron of a golden reliquary that housed a piece of this 
object. Louis IX bought a replica of this object from Baldwin II. This object was given along with a purple 
robe, after which its wearer was presented to a crowd with the words \"ecce homo!\" Theorized to have been 
made from acanthus, this object was given to a man who was flagellated by the command of Pontius Pilate. 
For 10 points, name this object that Christ wore on his head during the Crucifixion. 
ANSWER:  
crown of thorns 
 [prompt on  
crown 
] 
020-13-90-05131 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This metal and fluorine were used to synthesize one of the first xenon compounds, and its oxide is 
known as Adams' catalyst. This metal is bonded to chlorine and ammonia ligands in a potent chemotherapy 
drug. Though it is not gold, this metal dissolve in hot aqua regia, and with iridium, another metal in its 
namesake group, it forms the alloy for the International Prototype Kilogram. This element is commonly 
used as an electrode on account of its unreactivity. For 10 points, identify this precious, heavy metal often 
more valuable than gold whose name is Spanish for \"little silver.\" 
ANSWER:  
platinum 
 [or  ] 
Pt 
234-13-90-05132 
2. The Second Great Awakening was bolstered by this state’s Cane Ridge Revival. Leonidas Polk’s 
occupation of this state led it to break its neutrality in the Civil War. Richard Henderson founded the 
Transylvania Colony in this state with the help of a trail blazed by Daniel Boone. A politician from here 
created the “American System” to promote industrial development. For 10 points, name this state, home to 
Henry Clay. 
ANSWER:  
Kentucky 
232-13-90-05133 
3. This man was the first to represent complex numbers as points on a plane, and complex numbers whose 
real and imaginary parts are both integers are named for him. Ten thousand of a unit named for him equal 
one tesla, which measures magnetic field strength. He discovered a way to construct a seventeen-sided 
regular polygon with compass-and-straightedge, and allegedly discovered a quick way to add the first 
hundred numbers while a child. For 10 points, name this mathematician whose name is sometimes given to 
the normal distribution. 
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich  
Gauss 
121-13-90-05134 
4. This was the only city outside Pennsylvania where the Second Continental Congress met. A doctor in 
this city, George Gey, harvested Henrietta Lacks’s cancer cells to create the immortal HeLa line. The 
U.S.'s first common carrier railroad was named for this city and Ohio. This city was named for Cecilius 
Calvert and was the site of the Battle of Fort McHenry. For 10 points, name this city where Francis Scott 
Key wrote the “Star-Spangled Banner”. 
ANSWER:  
Baltimore 
190-13-90-05135 
5. This author fictionalized the rise of Hitler in the novel  
Dragon’s Teeth, 
 part of his Lanny Budd series. A 
character created by him is imprisoned for attacking Phil Connor, who rapes that character’s wife Ona. The 
Teapot Dome scandal inspired his novel  
Oil! 
, and in another book the cry “Chicago will be ours!” ends a 
speech attended by Lithuanian immigrant Jurgis Rudkus. For 10 points, name this man who depicted the 
Chicago meatpacking industry in his novel  
The Jungle. 
ANSWER: Upton  
Sinclair 
232-13-90-05136 
This is a calculation question. What is the median of the following set of numbers: 6, -2, 8, 1, 5, 6, -3? 
ANSWER:  
5 
What Russian tsar was killed by the People’s Will group as part of their “propaganda by deed” tactics? 
ANSWER:  
Alexander II 
 [prompt on  
Alexander 
] 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     5     Page  9 of 9 
