NASAT 2011 
Round 6 
Tossups 
1. In this work, one character pretends to be Epicurus defending his religious beliefs. In an earlier section, 
the author of this work declares that mathematical sciences are Relations of Idea, which are distinct from 
Matters of Fact. Largely a reaction to the inductive reasoning of Locke, this work considers cause and 
effect in arguing that we understand complex ideas because of simple ideas, a concept called the Copy 
Principle. It later argues that miracles can’t exist because they contradict the laws of nature, and it earlier 
presents an exception to the Copy Principle by imagining a “missing shade of blue.” For 10 points, name 
this book that draws on  
A Treatise of Human Nature 
, also by David Hume. 
ANSWER:  
An  Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding 
079-11-30-06102 
2. This artist decorated the house of his longtime patron Sergei Shchukin, who also commissioned a second 
version of an earlier painting in which the central nudes are painted red instead of skin tones. The French 
stockbroker Genevieve Habert noticed that one of his final works,  
Le Bateau 
, had been hung upside in the 
MOMA for over a month. In one of this man’s paintings, a woman arranges fruit on a table that blends in 
with the red wall behind it. He painted his wife Amelie Noellie with a stripe dissecting her face in  
The 
Green Line 
 and with fruit on her head in  
Woman with a Hat 
. For 10 points, name this French painter who, 
with Andre Derain, led the Fauvist movement. 
ANSWER: Henri  
Matisse 
015-11-30-06103 
3. The original owners of the pots Othrerir, Bothn, and Son were members of this race named Fjalar and 
Galar, who were killed by Sutungr after killing the god Kvasir. Loki once turned into a fly and bit one of 
these creatures named Eitri, in an attempt to prevent one of these creatures named Brokkr from winning a 
bet. One of these creatures named Alvis attempts to marry the daughter of Thor, but is asked questions until 
the sun rises and turns him into stone. The sons of Ivaldi are members of this race who built the ship of 
Freyr and the spear of Odin. This race may be the same as the svartalfen, or black elves. For 10 points, 
name this race from Norse mythology, notable for being short. 
ANSWER:  
dwarves 
 [accept: dvergr; svartalfen; black elves] 
021-11-30-06104 
4. In waveguides, this quantity is proportional to the square root of permeability over permittivity times 
either the wave number or the inverse of the wave number, depending on whether the wave is transverse 
magnetic or transverse electric. In general, this quantity emerges as a constant of proportionality when the 
Poynting theorem is used to calculate the power flow into a given surface. This complex quantity is 
inversely proportional to the frequency for a capacitor and directly proportional to the frequency for an 
inductor. This is the ratio of the complex voltage to the complex current. For 10 points, identify this 
quantity composed of a real resistance and an imaginary reactance, the generalized resistance of alternating 
current flow. 
ANSWER:  
impedance 
043-11-30-06105 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This ruler's prohibition of Jews at his coronation led to an anti-Jewish massacre when some nevertheless 
showed up to offer gifts. One story about this man said that he was lying ill on a stretcher from scurvy and 
successfully shot several opponents with a crossbow while prone. He was later captured by Leopold of 
Austria and ransomed. At the Battle of Arsuf, this man defeated Saladin's forces, though he failed to 
capture Jerusalem. For 10 points, name this son of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine who led the Third 
Crusade and was known as \"the lionhearted.\" 
ANSWER:  
Richard I 
 [or  
Richard the Lion-Hearted 
 before it is read; prompt on  
Richard 
] 
081-11-30-06106 
6. This character has an arrangement to visit Don Issachar three days a week and the Grand Inquisitor four 
days. This character suggestively drops her handkerchief after seeing Paquette having sex behind some 
bushes. Her brother is a commandant who claims to have been brought back to life by the Jesuits. She 
becomes the mistress to two Portuguese men before having a relationship with the governor of Buenos 
Aires. This character is freed from slavery in Constantinople after Cacambo helps her lover locate her and 
ultimately agrees to work in a garden. This character is the daughter of Baron Thunder-ten-tronckh, who 
employs the tutor Dr. Pangloss. For 10 points, name this long-suffering love interest of Candide. 
ANSWER:  
Cunegonde 
015-11-30-06107 
7. Strongyloidiasis is caused by a member of this phylum, three different members of which are the 
causative agents of lymphatic filariasis. This phylum is divided into the classes Adenophorea and 
Secernentea. Members of this phylum reproduce by using spicules to transfer amoeba-like gamete cells that 
crawl into the genital pore of the female. One organism in this phylum was used by Fire and Mello to 
characterize RNAi; that species’ hermaphrodite contains exactly 959 somatic cells, all of which have been 
fate-mapped. That organism, which was first studied by Sydney Brenner, is C. Elegans. For 10 points, 
name this phylum which contains the roundworms. 
ANSWER:  
Nematoda 
 [or  
Nematodes 
] 
021-11-30-06108 
8. In one speech from this a play a character says he will battle another man “with one hand on his 
scrotum” after accusing him of planning to use genetic engineering to make ugly people sterile. In the third 
act a man enters with a bouquet of snapdragons throwing them as spears at another character he calls 
“houseboy.” This play ends with a woman saying “I am” in response to the wittiest thing said at the party 
that evening. A game called “Get the Guest” reveals one woman had a hysterical pregnancy in its second 
act titled “Walpurgisnacht.” A story about a man who dies in a car crash by swerving to avoid a porcupine 
leads to the revelation that the central couple’s son is imaginary. Nick and Honey are invited over for 
drinks by George and Martha, for 10 points, in this play by Edward Albee. 
ANSWER:  
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
109-11-30-06109 
9. This psychologist did an experiment in which participants were asked to sign up for additional trials after 
trying to memorize a list of words and were shocked regardless of performance. He described a process in 
which groups provide an environment where individuals lose self-awareness, which he called 
“deindividuation.” This psychologist worked with Lynne Henderson to create the Shyness Clinic. His most 
famous experiment, run at Jordan Hall, saw a subject adopt a fake Southern accent from  
Cool Hand Luke 
and call himself “John Wayne” before the study was shut down after just six days. For 10 points, name this 
psychologist who ran the Stanford Prison Experiment. 
ANSWER: Philip  
Zimbardo 
109-11-30-06110 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. Two Senators from this political faction resigned to protest the violation of a patronage deal known as 
the \"Treaty of Fifth Avenue.\" One member of this faction was nicknamed “Me Too\" and later became a 
political boss who united the five boroughs of New York into a single city to increase his power. This 
faction included Thomas Platt and the \"Immortal 306,\" who refused to vote for James Garfield. This faction 
attempted to nominate Ulysses S. Grant for a third term. Chester A. Arthur was considered a member of 
this faction, as he was a follower of its leader, Roscoe Conkling. For 10 points, name this Gilded Age 
faction of the Republican Party and opponents of the Half-Breeds. 
ANSWER:  
Stalwart 
s 
021-11-30-06111 
11. Kemal Ataturk commissioned this composer to reorganize musical education in Turkey. This composer 
collaborated with Leonid Massine on a ballet about the life of St. Francis,  
Nobilissima Visione 
, and with 
George Balanchine on the ballet  
The Four Temperaments 
. This proponent of \"Gebrauchsmusik\" paid 
tribute to the Brandenburg Concertos by writing a series of chamber concerti he called \"Kammermusik.\" 
He adapted incidental music from  
Turandot 
 to compose his  
Symphonic Variations on Themes by Von 
Weber 
, and wrote an opera about the life of Matthias Grunewald. For 10 points, name this 20th century 
neo-Classical German composer of  
Mathis der Mahler 
. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Hindemith 
004-11-30-06112 
12. The Catholic martyrs of this country were seven local Christians who were executed as French spies in 
1940. The three southern provinces of this country have populations that are over thirty percent Muslim. 
The majority religion in this country venerates Lokesvara and believes that this country’s head of state is a 
boddhisatva, two remnants of an earlier Mahayana strain that survived into the current Theravada 
dominance of Buddhism here. The majority of young men in this country spend at least a few months as 
Buddhist monks, and the prevalence of that religion led to a failed 2007 initiative to have Buddhism 
declared the state religion in, for 10 points, what country, home to the world’s largest Theravada 
population? 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Thailand 
 [or  
Ratcha Anachak Thai 
; or  
Prathet Thai 
] 
019-11-30-06113 
13. One character in this novel feeds a fly to a spider and the spider to a bird before himself eating the bird. 
That character, R. M. Renfield, is a resident of a lunatic asylum run by one of the main characters. The 
protagonist of this work names his son after the Texan Quincey Morris, who is killed in the climactic battle 
at its end. The title character sails the  
Czarina Catherine 
 to England, where he attacks Arthur Holmwood’s 
fiancée Lucy Westenra. That title character of this novel is hunted by Dr. Seward, Mina Murray, Dr. Van 
Helsing, and Jonathan Harker. For 10 points, name this Bram Stoker novel about a Transylvanian count 
who happens to be a vampire. 
ANSWER:  
Dracula 
015-11-30-06114 
14. In one opera, it is performed during the song \"Ja, wir sind es, die Grisetten\" in Hanna's house before 
Danilo arrives from Maxim's. In addition to that appearance in Franz Lehar's  
The Merry Widow, 
 it also 
appears as a reprise to close out an opera immediately after a lightning bolt blocks one person's path, and 
originally is used in that opera after a series of minuets by Jupiter are denounced as boring. It is 
accompanied by the \"Galop Infernal\" and danced by the Olympian gods in that opera by Jacques 
Offenbach,  
Orpheus in the Underworld. 
 For 10 points, identify this Moulin Rouge dance involving high leg 
kicks. 
ANSWER: the  
can-can 
019-11-30-06115 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. This poet asks why the \"blessed structures, plot and rhyme\" are \"no help\" when \"I want to make / 
something imagined, not recalled?\" in the poem \"Epilogue.\" The speaker laments, \"All you recovered from 
Poseidon died / with you, my cousin\" in a poem whose sixth section is dedicated to \"Our Lady of 
Walsingham.\" He ended one poem with the assertion, \"A savage servility / slides by on grease.\" Another of 
his poems claims, \"I myself am hell / nobody's here\" and begins by discussing \"Nautilus Island's hermit 
heiress.\" His collection  
 Lord Weary's Castle 
 includes \"The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket.\" He wrote a 
poem discussing the old South Boston Aquarium that claims Colonel Shaw's monument \"sticks like a 
fishbone / in the city's throat.\" For 10 points, name this poet who wrote \"Skunk Hour\" and \"For the Union 
Dead.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Lowell 
105-11-30-06116 
16. The Hague Partition Treaty was an unsuccessful attempt to prevent this war. This war’s most notable 
naval battle was fought at Malaga. This war resulted in the asiento, an agreement that gave England the 
right to supply slaves to South America. Many battles in this war were won as the result of cooperation 
between the Austrian General Eugene of Savoy and the English General Duke of Marlborough, including 
the Battle of Blenheim. England gained control of Gibraltar because of this war. This war began with the 
death of Charles II and ended with a French prince becoming King Philip V. For 10 points, name this war 
ended by the Treaty of Utrecht, fought over who should rule the namesake country with capital Madrid. 
ANSWER: War of the  
Spanish Succession 
021-11-30-06117 
17. The flux of a vector field across a surface is given by the double integral, over the surface, of the vector 
field dotted with this quantity. The direction of this vector determines the orientation of a surface. For a 
plane, it can be found by taking the cross product of any two vectors in the plane; for a curve in space, it is 
equal to the derivative of the tangent vector. The direction of this vector, along with any point in the plane, 
defines the plane. For 10 points, name this vector, which is perpendicular to a surface. 
ANSWER: the  
normal 
 vector [or  ; or  
N unit normal 
 vector] 
080-11-30-06118 
18. According to local legend, Jacob Waltz established the Lost Dutchman's Gold Mine near this state’s 
Superstition Mountains. Brigham Young’s son John built Fort Moroni on this state's San Francisco Peak, 
which includes its highest point, Humphreys Peak. This state’s northern border straddles Monument 
Valley, where John Ford filmed many of his movies. Its largest cities include Chandler and Scottsdale, and 
it is home to the Big Horn Mountains and Sonoran Desert. The Colorado River forms this state’s most 
notable feature. For 10 points, name this home of the Grand Canyon. 
ANSWER:  
Arizona 
015-11-30-06119 
19. This functional group is found attached to a deoxyketose in Amadori compounds. One test detects them 
with sodium hydroxide and benzenesulfonyl chloride. A methylation with iodide produces an alkene and 
one of these compounds, which are exemplified by epinephrine. Potassium phthalimide tranforms alkyl 
halides into this functional group in one synthesis. Detected by the Hinsberg Reaction, they are produced 
by the Zincke Reaction, Hoffman Elimination, and Gabriel Synthesis. Exemplified by aniline, they have a 
fishy smell. For 10 points, name this functional group consisting of three groups singly bonded to a 
nitrogen atom. 
ANSWER:  
amines 
079-11-30-06120 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. John Reagan served as Postmaster General during the entirety of this president’s administration. After 
only seven months in office, this president was forced to shake-up his cabinet, firing Leroy Walker as 
Secretary of War and Robert Toombs as Secretary of State. This president’s navy secretary, former Florida 
Senator Stephen Mallory, authorized innovative ships like the  
Hunley 
. Several posts in this man’s cabinet 
were filled by Judah P. Benjamin, a Jew from Louisiana. Serving alongside Vice President Alexander 
Stephens, this man appointed as commander of the Army of Northern Virginia Robert E. Lee. For 10 
points, name this President of the Confederate States of America. 
ANSWER: Jefferson  
Davis 
021-11-30-06121 
21. This ruler patronized St. Boniface, whose early ministrations were interrupted by his war against the 
Frisian king Radbod. He was imprisoned by his stepmother Plectrude after being neglected in the will of 
his father, Pippin II of Herstal. This man defeated Chilperic II and Eudes in a series of battles which gave 
control of Neustria and Burgundy to the Mayor of the Palace. Near the town of Poitiers, this man defeated 
the Cordoban governor Abd-ar-Rahman in 732 AD, earning himself the epithet “the Hammer.” For 10 
points, name this victor at the Battle of Tours and grandfather of Charlemagne. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Martel 
 [or  
Charles the Hammer 
; prompt on “hammer”] 
015-11-30-06122 
22. When this character meets her sisters Betsey and Susan for the first time, they fight over a silver knife. 
Her brother is a sailor on the  
Thrush 
 named William, who gives her an amber cross, forcing her to decide 
which of her suitors’ gold chains to wear it on. Her uncle’s friend Yates encourages her to act in the play  
Lovers’ Vows 
, but her uncle returns from his plantation in Antigua and stops the production of the play. Her 
cousin Maria marries Henry Crawford, who proposes to this character in spite of her love for her cousin 
Edmund. She is brought up by Mrs. Norris and the Bertrams, her aunt and uncle. For 10 points, name this 
member of the Price family, the protagonist of Jane Austen’s  
Mansfield Park 
. 
ANSWER:  
Fanny 
 Price [accept Fanny  
Price 
 before Price is read] 
079-11-30-06123 
23. The Goesgen experiment used a nuclear reactor to observe their spectra. Experimental setups to study 
these down to the 6.5 megavolt range usually only observe B8 products. Their dynamics show large and 
small mixing angle solutions. Those dynamics are enhanced by the MSW mechanism. One method for 
finding these makes use of large quantities of perchloroethylene such as in the Homestake experiment. 
Research has shown that they can undergo flavor oscillations, and these half-integer spin particles are only 
affected by the weak force. They were first postulated in the form of their antiparticles by Pauli. For 10 
points, name these non-charge-carrying leptons of little mass involved in beta decay. 
ANSWER:  
neutrino 
s 
107-11-30-06124 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 6 
Bonuses 
1. He wrote about the preparations for the end of light on the continuously six sun planet of Lagash in his 
story “Nightfall.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Russian born science fiction author whose popularized the Three Laws of Robotics in his 
“Robot” series. 
ANSWER: Isaac  
Asimov 
[10] Asimov wrote seven novels for this series, in which mathematician Hari Seldon develops the science 
of “psychohistory.” 
ANSWER:  
Foundation 
[10] In the fourth, fifth, and sixth books in the series, this character obstructs Seldon’s plan through his 
power to mentally control people. He disguises himself as the clown Magnifico Giganticus. 
ANSWER: The  
Mule 
015-11-30-06201 
2. Over half the known species of these crustaceans are parasites on marine organisms. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these dominant members of the zooplankton in all the world's oceans, which form the largest 
animal biomass in the world. 
ANSWER:  
copepod 
s 
[10] The parasitic copepod Condracanthus parvus occupies the operculum of fish, which is the flap that 
covers these respiratory organs. 
ANSWER:  
gill 
s 
[10] The parasitic copepod Haemobaphes diceraus also resides in the gills of fish and extends into the 
bulbus ateriosus of the fish's heart, which is a series of valves that controls blood flow from the ventricle 
into this artery. 
ANSWER: ventral  
aorta 
066-11-30-06202 
3. Name the following about 20th century sculpture, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Romanian sculptor of the late work  
Flying Turtle 
 is best known for his  
Bird in Space 
. 
ANSWER: Constantin  
Brancusi 
[10] This American city is home to both Anish Kapoor’s  
Cloud Gate 
 and Alexander Calder’s  
Flamingo 
. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
[10] American sculptor Robert Indiana is best known for a sculpture depicting this word in which the 
second letter is slanted to the right. 
ANSWER:  
LOVE 
015-11-30-06203 
4. This president protested to England after Canadian officials set the Caroline on fire and sent it over 
Niagara Falls. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this successor to Andrew Jackson nicknamed “the Little Magician.” 
ANSWER: Martin  
Van Buren 
[10] Van Buren’s term was rocked by this financial crisis, which was exacerbated by Jackson’s passage of 
the Specie Circular. 
ANSWER:  
Panic of 1837 
[10] In the election of 1824, Van Buren was a supporter of this Georgia candidate who finished behind 
Jackson and Adams after suffering a stroke. 
ANSWER: William Harris  
Crawford 
015-11-30-06204 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. These pieces are numbered 244 on the Searle catalogue, and the most famous is No. 2, which was 
dedicated to Laszlo Teleki. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these set of nineteen piano pieces based on dances like the friska and lassan. 
ANSWER:  
Hungarian Rhapsodies 
[10] The  
Hungarian Rhapsodies 
 were composed by this man, who was associated with a namesake 
“mania” and who invented the symphonic poem. 
ANSWER: Franz  
Liszt 
[10] Liszt’s fifth symphonic poem was titled after this mythological figure. A Scriaban composition scored 
for a color organ and subtitled “poem of fire” is named for this figure. 
ANSWER:  
Prometheus 
015-11-30-06205 
6. As the son of Isabella of Portugal and Charles V, this monarch ruled all of Iberia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this champion of the Counter Reformation who built El Escorial and launched the Spanish 
Armada. 
ANSWER:  
Philip II 
[10] Philip was opposed by this Dutchman, who was assassinated by Balthasar Gerard after leading the 
Dutch rebellion against Spanish rule. 
ANSWER:  
William the Silent 
 [or  
William I 
; or  
William of Orange 
] 
[10] This son of William the Silent succeeded him as Prince of Orange and used an emphasis on siege 
strategy to take the Spanish fortresses at Breda and Steenwijk. 
ANSWER:  
Maurice 
 of Nassau 
015-11-30-06206 
7. One character repeatedly calls the protagonist \"bright boy\" and claims he should enter a nunnery. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this story in which the gangsters Al and Max hold the occupants of a diner hostage while setting 
a trap to kill a retired boxer nicknamed \"The Swede\" who never shows up. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Killers 
\" 
[10] This recurring character is the protagonist of \"The Killers\" and he also appears in other ERnest 
Hemingway stories such as “Indian Camp” and “Big Two-Hearted River.” 
ANSWER: Nick  
Adams 
 [or  
Nick 
 Adams] 
[10] Hemingway's most important line of dialogue occurs in a sketch from  
In Our Time 
 when Nick Adams 
ironically tells Rinaldi, while they are both lying wounded on a battlefield, that they have achieved this 
state of contentment. 
ANSWER: a  
separate peace 
015-11-30-06207 
8. He ran for president in 1916 with the slogan “He Kept us Out of War.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this president who resisted the 19th amendment and who entered the United States into World 
War I. 
ANSWER: Woodrow  
Wilson 
[10] Wilson appointed this Jewish justice to the Supreme Court. He demonstrated the use of non legal data 
in his namesake “brief,” and is the namesake of a university in Waltham Massachusetts. 
ANSWER: Louis  
Brandeis 
[10] The Brandeis Brief was introduced at this Supreme Court case, which ruled that a state was allowed to 
restrict the working hours of women. 
ANSWER:  
Muller  v. Oregon 
015-11-30-06208 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. Name the following about Hungary and literature, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Elie Wiesel work describes the internment and suffering of the Hungarian Jews during World 
War II. It was followed by books titled  
Dawn 
 and  
Day 
. 
ANSWER:  
Night 
[10] A king of Hungary named Sigismund is a character in this Christopher Marlowe play about a Scythian 
shepherd who imprisons Emperor Bajazeth in a cake and stabs his own son after becoming a powerful 
ruler. 
ANSWER:  
Tamburlaine  the Great 
[10] This Hungarian author of  
Fatelessness 
 and  
Kaddish for an Unborn Child 
 won the 2002 Nobel Prize. 
ANSWER: Imre  
Kertesz 
015-11-30-06209 
10. It isn't a primality test, but the AKS example of these has big o of log n depth. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these algorithms that use preset check then switch operations to manipulate a list. Their function 
is generalized by the zero-one principle and are visualized by connections between horizontal lines. 
ANSWER:  
sorting network 
 [or  
comparison network 
; prompt on  
sort 
ing algorithm; prompt on  
comparision 
 algorithm] 
[10] This sorting algorithm is used as the basis for a sorting network named for Batcher. In this algorithm, 
lists are divided up into two, the algorithm is used recursively on the halves, then the namesake 
recombining stage occurs. 
ANSWER:  
merge 
 sort 
[10] This developer of merge sort and member of the Manhattan Project developed a computer architecture 
where data and programs are stored in the same memory. He also established the minimax theorem. 
ANSWER: John  
von Neumann 
081-11-30-06210 
11. This man’s head was sent to his rival, who became furious at the disrespect. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Roman who joined Crassus and Julius Caesar in the First Triumvirate. 
ANSWER:  
Pompey 
 the Great [or Gnaeus  
Pompeius 
 Magnus] 
[10] Pompey was definitively defeated by Caesar at this 48 B.C. battle in central Greece. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Pharsalus 
[10] During the Civil War, Caesar sided with the populares and Pompey sided with this more elitist faction 
which controlled the senate. 
ANSWER:  
optimates 
015-11-30-06211 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. The magnetization of an object is defined by the sum of the average value of this quantity. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this quantity defined by the current multiplied by the area vector that dotted with B gives 
potential energy and crossed with B gives torque. 
ANSWER:  
magnetic 
 dipole  
moment 
[10] For an atom, the magnetic dipole moment is proportional to the square root of J times J+1, where J is 
one of these numbers. The principle these include n which gives the energy and l, which gives the angular 
momentum, and m s, which denotes spin. They correspond to orbitals of atoms 
ANSWER:  
quantum numbers 
[10] The natural units for expressing an electron’s dipole moment is in terms of a magneton named for this 
Danish physicist. He also names a radius used in his model of the atom that succeeded the Rutherford 
model but was before the full development of hydrogen. That model gave the correct energies of hydrogen 
ANSWER: Niels  
Bohr 
107-11-30-06212 
13. This sugar exhibits mutarotation and is a 1,4-beta-linked glycoside. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this disaccharide found in milk, which has a namesake intolerance and is formed by a unit of 
glucose and a unit of a C-4 epimer of glucose. 
ANSWER:  
lactose 
[10] This projection shows a monosaccharide in cyclic form with substituents above and below the ring. 
ANSWER:  
Haworth 
 projection 
[10] These are sugars such that the oxygen attached to the anomeric carbon isn't attached to any other 
atoms. They are detected by Benedict's reagent. 
ANSWER:  
reducing sugar 
066-11-30-06213 
14. He performed as the fop Sir Novelty Fashion in his own play  
Love’s Last Shift 
, which was continued in 
Vanbrugh’s sequel  
The Relapse 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Restoration playwright who was appointed Poet Laureate in 1730. 
ANSWER: Colley  
Cibber 
[10] Colley Cibber was satirized as the hero of this author’s  
Dunciad 
. He’s better known for writing about 
the theft of some hair in  
The Rape of the Lock 
. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Pope 
[10] Pope was a master of the “heroic” form of this stanza. Shakespearean sonnets are composed of three 
quatrains and one of these. 
ANSWER: heroic  
couplet 
015-11-30-06214 
15. This woman lived on the island of Aeaea. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this enchantress who turned the men of Odysseus into pigs. 
ANSWER:  
Circe 
[10] Odysseus was spared from her magic because Hermes had given him some of this plant. 
ANSWER:  
moly 
[10] According to one story, this son of Odysseus and Circe killed his father with the spine of a stingray. 
ANSWER:  
Telegonus 
015-11-30-06215 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. This country's highest point is Triglav, which is part of the Julian Alps. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this eastern European country, which is the only former Yugoslav republic that borders Italy. 
ANSWER:  
Slovenia 
[10] This city is the capital of Slovenia. 
ANSWER:  
Ljubljana 
[10] This river, which flows through Slovenia, forms the northern border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
ANSWER: The  
Sava 
088-11-30-06216 
17. Answer the following about American folklore for 10 points each: 
[10] This lumberjack is often depicted with his companion Babe the Blue Ox. 
ANSWER:  
Paul Bunyan 
[10] This man was “born with a hammer in his hand” and died after defeating a steam hammer in a steel 
driving competition. 
ANSWER:  
John Henry 
[10] This railroad engineer was popularized in a Wallace Saunders ballad after dying while trying to stop 
his train, the “Cannonball Express.” 
ANSWER: Casey  
Jones 
015-11-30-06217 
18. This philosopher’s monistic claim that there is only being at that all claims of non-Being are illogical is 
the subject of a Platonic dialogue named for him. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this pre-Socratic whose only surviving work is the three part verse composition  
On Nature 
. 
ANSWER:  
Parmenides 
[10] Parmenides was the founder of the school named for and based in this city. Its followers included 
Melissus of Samos. 
ANSWER:  
Elea 
 [or  
Eleatics 
] 
[10] This member of the Eleatic school rhetorically questioned the possibility of motion in paradoxes like 
the Arrow Paradox and Achilles and the Tortoise. 
ANSWER:  
Zeno 
 of Elea 
015-11-30-06218 
19. The title figure clasps his hands over a book in this artist’s  
Madonna of Chancellor Rolin 
. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this man who painted a merchant’s wife in a green dress in  
The Arnolfini Wedding 
. 
ANSWER: Jan  
van Eyck 
[10] In van Eyck’s depiction of this scene, a dove pursued by seven rays of light heads directly for the blue 
robed Mary. This scene often includes a kneeling angel. 
ANSWER:  
annunciation 
[10] Van Eyck’s portrait of a man wearing this colorful headgear is often thought to be a self-portrait. 
ANSWER:  
red turban 
 [or  
red chaperon 
; or  
blue turban 
] 
015-11-30-06219 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. He burns circus tickets in front of the servant Luster after asking him for a small loan to visit the circus 
and he secretly steals all the monthly checks his sister sends to support his niece. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who chases his runaway niece Miss Quentin when she steals all the embezzled 
money he kept hidden in a safe-box in his room. 
ANSWER:  
Jason 
 Compson 
[10] Jason Compson narrates the third section of this novel by William Faulkner whose second section 
details the day Harvard student Quentin commits suicide. 
ANSWER:  
The  Sound and the Fury 
[10] Jason Compson becomes Miss Quentin’s guardian when Caddy is abandoned without any money by 
her husband Herbert Head when he learns that this man is Quentin’s real father. 
ANSWER:  
Dalton Ames 
   [accept either] 
109-11-30-06220 
21. Telaprevir and boceprevir are two drugs that were recently approved for the treatment of this virus, 
which is currently treated with a combination of interferon and ribavirin. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this virus, which often causes a chronic inflammation of the liver. Symptoms include include 
jaundice, spider angiomata, and gynecomastia. 
ANSWER:  
hepatitis 
 C 
[10] Hepatitis can also cause this scarring of the liver. 
ANSWER:  
cirrhosis 
[10] Susceptibility to hepatitis C infection is partly attributed to a polymorphism in the gene coding for the 
28th of these proteins. These cytokines are used by white blood cells to communicate with each other. 
ANSWER:  
interleukin 
s 
066-11-30-06221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 6     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
