NASAT 2013 
Round 10 
Tossups 
1. The Swiss folk hero Heinrich von Winkelried died from exposure to this substance. Dobrynya Nikitich is 
stuck in this substance for three days until he sticks his spear into the ground, a remnant of the myth that 
Mother Earth will not absorb this stuff because it's so vile. In Norse legend, a series of trenches were dug to 
store this substance by a hero who hid in a pit to kill its owner. A hero who bathed in this substance had a 
leaf covering his shoulder, leaving that shoulder vulnerable. After consuming this substance, that man 
killed Regin, having gained the ability to understand birds. For 10 points, name this substance which Sigurd 
consumed after he slew Fafnir, and which presumably flowed out of a wound inflicted by St. George. 
ANSWER:  
dragon blood 
 [or a  
serpent's blood 
; or a  
zmey 's blood 
; or any other kind of  
dragon's blood 
; 
prompt on  
blood 
; prompt on  
bodily fluid 
s; prompt on  
poison 
] 
190-13-83-10101 
2. Celso Furtado was in charge of an agency for developing this country's poor northeast region, SUDENE. 
Lampião was a famous cangaceiro, or bandit, from this country's hinterlands in the 1920s. In the northeast 
of this country, the “polygon of drought” is the driest part of its sertão region. “Cidade Maravilhosa” is the 
anthem and nickname of this country's second-largest city, which lies near Corcovado, the site of a “Christ 
the Redeemer” statue. Shantytowns around cities like Salvator here have been destroyed in preparation for 
the 2016 Olympics. For 10 points, name this country, home to São Paulo. 
ANSWER: Federative Republic of  
Brazil 
121-13-83-10102 
3. One of this author's books notes that \"empty nest syndrome\" is tougher for men to handle than for 
women, while another book by her analyzes how World War II developed an American desire for a warm 
home environment. This author of  
The Fountain of Age 
 proposed daycares administered by firms in  
The 
Second Stage. 
 This thinker was instrumental in the dismissal of G. Harrold Carswell as a candidate for the 
Supreme Court. One of her works begins by describing the \"problem that has no name\" and argues that 
women have been shown as happiest when they are housewives. For 10 points, name this woman who set 
off second-wave feminism with her book  
The Feminine Mystique. 
ANSWER: Betty  
Friedan 
192-13-83-10103 
4. Characters in this novel include a Traction Street Company executive whose daughter elopes with the 
protagonist's son and a failed poet who writes advertisement jingles. This novel's protagonist, who is 
friends with Chum Frink and Howard Littlefield, gives an acclaimed speech in Monarch and declares his 
support for Lucas Prout. The protagonist's best friend, who gave up his dreams of becoming a violinist to 
join the tar-roofing business, takes a liberating trip to Maine and shoots his wife Zilla. The title character 
ultimately returns to his ill wife Myra and realizes he will never escape his bourgeois lifestyle. For 10 
points, name this novel about a real estate salesman from Zenith, written by Sinclair Lewis. 
ANSWER:  
Babbitt 
192-13-83-10104 
NASAT 2013     10     Page  1 of 12 
5. An effect named for this physicist is non-perturbative since the virtual particles involved tunnel out of 
the Dirac sea. A correction due to this physicist was derived to explain the measurement of hyperfine 
splitting in gallium by Kusch and Foley. That effect results in pair production when a vacuum is subjected 
to an electric field on the order of ten to the sixteen volts per centimeter. That correction gives the 
anomalous magnetic moment of the electron as the fine structure constant divided by two pi. He developed 
the method of renormalization. For 10 points, identify this physicist who was awarded a Nobel, with 
Feynman and Tomonaga, for his work on QED. 
ANSWER: Julian Seymour  
Schwinger 
066-13-83-10105 
6. Julian Bell has remarked that one of these works was subject to improper casting, making it seem as if an 
arm is trapped in stone. Francesco Rustici sculpted a statue of John the Baptist which stands above one of 
these works. Andrea Pisano used rosettes and lions' heads to frame 28 quatrefoil panels for the 
southernmost of these works. A precursor to one of these works shows a ram on a mountain while a 
foreshortened angel approaches a draped Abraham. The Cloth Importers Guild sponsored a contest to 
depict the  
Sacrifice of Isaac 
 on these structures, which was won by a then-unknown goldsmith. For 10 
points, identify these entryways to a Florence building, one of which is decorated by Lorenzo Ghiberti's  
The Gates of Paradise 
. 
ANSWER:  
door 
s of/in the Florence  
Baptistery 
 [or  
door 
s of/in the  
Battistero 
 di San Giovanni; or  
door 
s 
of/in the  
Baptistery 
 of St. John; accept  
gate 
s instead of  
door 
s; prompt on the Florence  
Baptistry 
; prompt 
on the  
Battistero 
 di San Giovanni] 
189-13-83-10106 
7. This ruler was opposed in his attempt to tax the clergy by Robert Winchelsey's publishing of the papal 
bull,  
Clericis laicos 
. This king outlawed the practice of mortmain and undermined the structure of 
feudalism with the Quia Emptores, or Third Statute of Westminster. This man won the Battle of Evesham 
against Simon de Montfort. This king replaced the Treaty of Shrewsbury with the Treaty of Aberconwy 
after subduing a neighboring region. The Jews were expelled from England by this ruler, who was 
victorious at the Battle of Falkirk after being defeated at Stirling Bridge by William Wallace. For 10 points, 
name this English king who conquered Wales but failed to subdue Scotland. 
ANSWER:  
Edward I 
 of England [or  
Edward Longshanks 
; prompt on  
Edward 
] 
023-13-83-10107 
8. Stephen Barlow changed the setting of this opera to the 1970s in his current production of it. Foreboding 
ensues after one character offers to stay behind to groom a donkey. Another character in this opera, which 
takes place on the Feast of the Assumption, picks up a bullwhip to ward off the advances of a lovestruck 
man and joins in with a singing bird in the aria \"Stridono lassu.\" That character is stabbed to death in this 
opera's second act, after which her killer declares that \"the comedy is over.\" Canio laments having to act 
jovial despite being tormented by Nedda's infidelity in this opera's aria \"Vesti la Giubba.\" For 10 points, 
name this opera that dramatizes the love affairs within a group of circus performers, by Ruggero 
Leoncavallo. 
ANSWER:  
I  Pagliacci 
 [or  
Clown s 
] 
192-13-83-10108 
NASAT 2013     10     Page  2 of 12 
9. This food is the basis for a new bacon cheeseburger that Wendy's has announced plans to launch later in 
2013. Its not noodles, but a popular recipe for this food dips the dough in lye. According to one common 
story, this food's name comes from the Latin for \"little reward\" as they were invented by a monk to give to 
children. This food is sometimes served with  
weisswurst 
. This food has a Bavarian version. One can buy at 
Auntie Anne's the soft type of this snack. For 10 points, name these twisted snacks that can be covered in 
butter, salt, or cinnamon. 
ANSWER:  
pretzel 
 [or  
pretiola 
; or  
bretzel 
; or  
brezn 
] 
001-13-83-10109 
10. This man set up the National Movement in order to concentrate regional power at the hands of political 
\"families.\" This man ordered the construction of a monument called \"The Valley of the Fallen\" to honor his 
deceased supporters, forcing political prisoners who were affiliated with the Popular Front to help construct 
it. The Council of the Realm was set up to assist this man by the Law of Succession, which let him choose 
the next king. This man was opposed by Manuel Azana, made a name for himself during the Rif Wars, and 
co-opted the Falange. This man led the Nationalists to victory during a 1936 to 1939 civil war. For 10 
points, name this dictator of Spain succeeded by Juan Carlos I. 
ANSWER: Francisco Paulino Hermenegildo Teodulo  
Franco 
 Bahamonde 
020-13-83-10110 
11. This value is the first derivative of the moment generating function at zero. In linear regression, this 
value of the dependent variable conditioned on the independent variable is the linear equation, assuming 
this value for the error terms is zero. It is not multiplicative unless two random variables are uncorrelated. 
For a continuous density function f, this value is the integral of x times f of x dx. For a normally distributed 
population, the sum of all sample values divided by the sample size provides a good estimate of this value. 
For 10 points, name this expected value of a random variable. 
ANSWER: population  
mean 
 [or  
expected value 
 until it is read; prompt on  
average 
] 
121-13-83-10111 
12. One of this author's protagonists goes into rehab at Remobilization Farm after being afflicted with 
paralyzing indecisiveness called \"cosmopsis.\" This man included a story about a sperm cell, \"Night-Sea 
Journey,\" in one collection, and he wrote about Jacob Horner in  
The End of the Road. 
 This man also wrote 
a novel whose title character works to become \"Grand Tutor\" in a nation based on the United States, New 
Tammany Hall, after he is raised as an animal. Another of his novels centers on a \"Poet Laureate of 
Maryland\" named Ebenezer Cooke. For 10 points, name this postmodern American author of  
Lost in the 
Funhouse, Giles Goat-Boy, 
   and  
The Sot-Weed Factor. 
ANSWER: John  
Barth 
192-13-83-10112 
13. This process is governed by a mathematical expression setting mass fraction proportional to partial 
pressure raised to the power of one over a constant. A mechanism involving this process explains why 
metal-catalyzed hydrogenation reactions occur with  
syn 
 stereochemistry. This phenomenon commonly 
occurs to activated carbon. This process occurs due to the stationary phase in thin-layer chromatography, 
where components which allow this to happen can be used as molecular sieves. This phenomenon occurs 
best when surface energy and surface area are high, and unlike a similar phenomenon, results in a film, not 
complete dissolution. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which molecules adhere to a solid surface. 
ANSWER:  
adsorption 
 [or word forms; do not accept or prompt on \"absorption\"] 
190-13-83-10113 
NASAT 2013     10     Page  3 of 12 
14. During this conflict, the Moon sisters got away with spying by seducing an enemy general. A woman 
who disguised herself as \"Albert Cashier\" to fight in this war wasn't found out until a vehicular accident 
fifty years later. Drew Gilpin Faust's book  
Mothers of Invention 
 studied the home front of this war. The 
dumping of urine buckets from home windows during a city's occupation in this conflict led to orders to 
treat any woman who insulted a soldier like a prostitute. During this war, women worked for the Christian 
Commission and Sanitary Commission. At its onset, mothers set up picnics to watch its first land battle, a 
defeat for Irvin McDowell. For 10 points, name this war whose women's history includes nurse Clara 
Barton. 
ANSWER: American  
Civil War 
 [or  
War Between the States 
, etc.] 
104-13-83-10114 
15. The use of these compounds can lead to the HAMA or HACA response, and one method of growing 
these compounds involves collecting ascites fluid from mice. Medarex developed the UltiMab platform for 
creating fully humanized ones. Using the substem -zu- indicates that these compounds are humanized. 
These compounds are created using cells that can’t express HGPRT, making them susceptible to the 
aminopterin present in HAT medium; those cells are immortalized myeloma cells fused to candidate 
B-cells to create a hybridoma. These drugs include Rituximab, which targets B-cells, and Herceptin, which 
targets the HER2/neu receptor responsible for some breast cancers. For 10 points, name these 
artificially-created antibodies that target a single epitope. 
ANSWER:  
monoclonal 
 antibodies [prompt on \"antibodies\"] 
048-13-83-10115 
16. This author created serial tire-slasher Professor Avenarius in a novel featuring a celestial trial in which 
Paul Eluard, Rainer Maria Rilke, and Romain Rolland rule against the ghost of Goethe. In one of this 
author's novels, a woman spits in the face of an engineer with whom she tries to have illicit sex after being 
reminded of an article comparing the Communists to Oedipus. This author of  
Immortality 
 described a 
Swiss professor named Franz who has a failed love affair with Sabina in a novel in which Tereza struggles 
with her marriage to the womanizer Tomas. For 10 points, name this Czech author of  
The Unbearable 
Lightness of Being 
. 
ANSWER: Milan  
Kundera 
080-13-83-10116 
17. A method of performing this action which is popular in West Africa is known as  
warsh 
, whereas in the 
U.S., the majority of practitioners of this action use  
hafs Qalqalah Idghaam 
.  ,   and  
ikhfaa 
 can be used when 
performing this action, which is governed by the rules of  
tajweed 
. This action is only performed aloud in  
salaat 
 if the  
imaam 
 is praying in a group, and someone proficient in this action is termed a  
qari 
, which 
literally means \"reader.\" For 10 points, name this action carried out to share the principal Muslim holy text. 
ANSWER:  
reciting 
 the  
Qur'an 
 [or  
reading 
 the  
Qur'an 
; accept  
qiraa'ah 
 or  
qirat 
 or  
tilawah 
] 
189-13-83-10117 
18. At the end of this play, a man proposes after finding out that his beloved is twenty-three years old, not 
seventeen. In this play, Nicola is concerned about being polite to his masters so that they can be good 
customers when he opens up shop. This play ends with the military commander Sergius asking, \"Is he a 
man?\" about a character who fought for the Serbian army but put chocolate in his pockets instead of 
ammunition. At the beginning of this play, that Swiss mercenary is hidden by a Bulgarian family served by 
Louka. For 10 points, name this play about Raina Petkoff's relationship with Captain Bluntschli that takes 
its title from the  
Aeneid 
 and was written by George Bernard Shaw. 
ANSWER:  
Arms and the Man 
192-13-83-10118 
NASAT 2013     10     Page  4 of 12 
19. For the Bliss family's fiftieth anniversary, this composer wrote a  
Nonet for Strings 
 on the commission 
of Dumbarton Oaks. One of this composer's symphonies was later adapted into a sextet for piano, clarinet, 
and string quartet, but received its premiere under the baton of Carlos Chavez. This composer wrote a 
concerto whose two movements are linked by a cadenza played by a woodwind soloist. A Henry Wallace 
speech provides the title for a piece he composed for Eugene Goossens and incorporated into the finale of 
his third symphony. This composer of a  
Short Symphony 
 and a clarinet concerto for Benny Goodman wrote 
a patriotic piece often played at presidential inaugurations. For 10 points, name this composer of  
Fanfare 
for the Common Man 
. 
ANSWER: Aaron  
Copland 
190-13-83-10119 
20. This man's mistress, Clementina Walkinshaw, fled with his child to a convent. He challenges the title 
character in the song \"Hey, Johnnie Cope, Are Ye Waking Yet?\", and the \"Skye Boat Song\" describes him 
fleeing disguised as a maid with Flora MacDonald. This man fled after a disastrous battle in which he 
ignored his commander, Lord George Murray, leading to a loss to a man nicknamed the \"Butcher.\" He 
escaped to the Hebrides and then France after his forces were defeated by the Duke of Cumberland at the 
Battle of Culloden, ending his aborted uprising against the House of Hanover. For 10 points, name this man 
known as the \"Young Pretender\" who was the grandson of James II and led the Jacobite uprising of 1745. 
ANSWER:  
Bonnie Prince Charlie 
 [or  
Charles Edward 
 Louis Philip Casimir Stuart; accept  
Young 
Pretender 
 until read; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
052-13-83-10120 
21. The individual with the most distinctive object of this kind was an African-American who was 
classified as \"Haplogroup 00.\" A unique version of this object belonging to Albert Perry proves that it 
predates the emergence of  
Homo Sapiens 
. The \"shrinking theory\" holds that this object has lost the vast 
majority of the material that it once had. Two isoforms of ribosomal protein S4 exist on this structure, 
whose most important region is denoted the SRY. Individuals with an extra copy of it grow taller, but have 
an otherwise normal phenotype. The first human to have it is known as its namesake \"Adam.\" For 10 
points, name this sex chromosome, one of which is possessed by men. 
ANSWER:   chromosome 
Y 
020-13-83-10121 
22. This group's female members were encouraged by Emmeline Wells' magazine, the  
Woman's Exponent 
. 
It was the target of the Poland Act and a non-land-grant-related Morrill Act. The Senate threatened to expel 
Reed Smoot because of his membership in this group. Members of this group slaughtered most of the 
Baker-Fancher wagon train from Arkansas in a September 11, 1857 attack. It carried out the Mountain 
Meadows Massacre and proposed to create the State of Deseret. This group moved west after having a 
headquarters at Nauvoo, Illinois, although its founder was killed by a mob before reaching Utah. For 10 
points, name this religious group led by Joseph Smith and Brigham Young. 
ANSWER:  
Mormon 
s [or Church of Jesus Christ of  
Latter-day Saints 
; or  
LDS 
 Church] 
052-13-83-10122 
NASAT 2013     10     Page  5 of 12 
23. The narration of this event includes a tangential description of the washing of robes in the pools near 
the hot and cold wellsprings of the Scamander. During this event, one man claims that there can never be 
love between lambs and wolves in his rejection of a pact. At the beginning of this event, one participant is 
chased three times around the walls of his city until Athena impersonates Deiphobus. In the aftermath of 
this event, that participant is tied to a chariot and dragged to the funeral pyre of Patroclus. For 10 points, 
name this climactic event in the  
Iliad 
 in which the greatest Trojan is slain by the best of the Achaeans. 
ANSWER: the  
fight between Hector and Achilles 
 [or obvious equivalents; prompt on the  
Trojan War 
until “chased” is read] 
014-13-83-10123 
NASAT 2013     10     Page  6 of 12 
NASAT 2013 
Round 10 
Bonuses 
1. Women generally did not suffer this fate and were instead burned. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this three-step, gruesome process in which English criminals convicted of high treason were 
executed. Samuel Pepys watched this be done to Thomas Harrison. 
ANSWER:  
hanged, drawn, and quartered 
 [accept word forms; prompt on partial answer] 
[10] This man avoided the last two parts by simply jumping from the scaffold, breaking his neck. A leader 
in the failed Gunpowder Plot, his namesake day in Britain is November 5. 
ANSWER: Guy  
Fawkes 
[10] The prosecutor in the Gunpowder Plot case was this man. As a judge, his ruling in Bonham's Case 
attempted to void a law of Parliament. He may be best known for writing  
Institutes of the Laws of England 
. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Coke 
 (COOK) 
052-13-83-10201  
2. This man argued that linguistic phrases like “he did a poor job” survive from an era where poor people 
were seen as worthless by purveyors of a “master morality” who praised strength and success. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this German author of  
On the Genealogy of Morals, 
 who went insane in 1889. 
ANSWER: Friedrich Wilhelm  
Nietzsche 
[10] According to  
Genealogy of Morals 
, this pair of binary opposites underpins the master morality. 
Through  
ressentiment 
, the slave morality inverted the meaning of term in this binary and replaced the other 
with “evil.” 
ANSWER:  
good 
 and  
bad 
 [or  
Gut 
 und  
Schlecht 
] 
[10] Nietzsche’s  
Genealogy 
 argues that the repression of this human trait results in “bad conscience.” It 
titles a posthumous collection of notes which was stitched together and made more anti-Semitic by 
Nietzsche’s sister. 
ANSWER: the  
will to power 
 [or der  
Wille zur Macht 
] 
104-13-83-10202  
3. John Lydgate's  
Fall of Princes 
 and William Langland's  
Piers Plowman 
 were both written in this 
language. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this language in which  
The Parlement of Fowles 
 and  
Troilus and Criseyde 
 were written by 
Geoffrey Chaucer. 
ANSWER:  
Middle English 
 [prompt on  
English 
] 
[10]  
Troilus and Criseyde 
 was dedicated to this contemporary of Chaucer, who is depicted firing an arrow 
at the world in a page set in front of his  
Vox Clamantis 
. He also wrote  
Confessio Amantis 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Gower 
[10] This woman's Middle English autobiography recounts how she stopped sleeping with her husband 
John after having a vision of Jesus. She claimed that she had lain in bed with Jesus and taken him as her 
\"wedded husband.\" 
ANSWER: Margery  
Kempe 
080-13-83-10203  
NASAT 2013     10     Page  7 of 12 
4. The entity-relationship model is used to describe these things. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this structure that stores an organized collection of data and metadata. 
ANSWER:  
database 
[10] This set of criteria, which include atomicity and isolation, guarantees that database transactions are 
processed reliably. 
ANSWER:  
ACID 
 [or atomicity,  
consistency 
, isolation, and  
durability 
 in any order or word forms] 
[10] These things, which give a user exclusive access to a record, are used when databases need to be 
accessed and updated by multiple users. 
ANSWER:  
lock 
s 
066-13-83-10204  
5. A character in this play laments, \"The gods have robbed me of an innocent life,\" before being dragged by 
his horses' reins to a watery death. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play about a manipulative queen of Athens who lusts after her stepson Hippolytus. 
ANSWER:  
Phèdre 
[10] Jean Racine, the author of  
Phèdre, 
 strictly observed the unities of action, time, and place rather 
dubiously derived from this Greek author's  
Poetics. 
ANSWER:  
Aristotle 
[10] Voltaire and Flaubert lauded this final tragedy by Racine, in which the Baal-worshipping widow of the 
King of Judah is thwarted by the high priest Joad and her grandson Joash. 
ANSWER:  
Athalie 
020-13-83-10205  
6. Mstislav Rostropovich compared the Sarabande in one of this man's pieces to \"white-hot solitude,\" while 
another, written in scordatura, contains a Sarabande with no chords. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer of a set of six suites for solo cello popularized by Pablo Casals. 
ANSWER:  ohann  ebastian  
J S Bach 
 [prompt on  
Bach 
] 
[10] The cello suites all begin with one of these movements, which Bach paired with fugues in  
The 
Well-Tempered Clavier. 
 Debussy wrote several, including \"The Girl with the Flaxen Hair\" and one  
to the 
Afternoon of a Faun 
. 
ANSWER:  
prelude 
s 
[10] A classical suite typically ends with one of these Baroque dances, which are often in 3/8 time and 
follow the allemande, courant, and sarabande. 
ANSWER:  
gigue 
s [or  
jig 
s] 
080-13-83-10206  
7. The tools used in this experiment were painted like cartoon clowns and weighted at the bottom so that 
they would return to an upright position after being knocked down. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this experiment conducted by Albert Bandura in which children mimicked the behavior of 
adults who attacked the namesake figures. 
ANSWER:  
Bobo Doll 
 experiment 
[10] Another experiment involving dolls was conducted by this husband-wife team who showed that black 
children in the segregated South preferred white dolls to black dolls, with many children viewing the black 
doll as “bad.” This couple’s research was a key component of the plaintiffs’ arguments in  
Brown v. Board 
of Education 
. 
ANSWER: Kenneth and Mamie  
Clark 
[10] Iowa schoolteacher Jane Elliott conducted an experiment on her third grade class in response to the 
Martin Luther King assassination in which she segregated her class based on this factor. 
ANSWER:  
eye color 
 [or having  
blue or brown 
 eyes] 
030-13-83-10207  
NASAT 2013     10     Page  8 of 12 
8. The width of atomic transitions limits the effectiveness of this technique to h-bar times linewidth over 
two times Boltzmann's constant. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this method in which atoms travelling in a direction opposed to a beam of photons see an 
increase in frequency and consequently lose momentum and energy. 
ANSWER:  
laser cool 
ing [or  
Doppler cool 
ing] 
[10] Laser cooling of atoms can be used to construct extremely precise examples of this device, which 
often rely on the electronic transition of cesium. NIST-F1 is the one used by the federal government. 
ANSWER:  
atomic clock 
s [prompt on  
clock 
s] 
[10] Along with velocity selective coherent population trapping, the method of cooling named for this 
physicist is used to surpass the recoil limit. Photons are inelastically scattering by electronic excitations or 
optical phonons in his namesake scattering. 
ANSWER: Chandrasekhara Venkata  
Raman 
190-13-83-10208  
9. Shiver me timbers matey and answer the following about Caribbean piracy, for 10 points each. 
[10] The most famous pirate was Edward Teach, captain of the  
Queen Anne's Revenge 
. Teach was better 
known by this nickname referring to his facial hair. 
ANSWER:  
Blackbeard 
[10] This city in Jamaica was a major base for privateers until it was destroyed in a 1692 earthquake. Many 
pirates were later executed here at Gallows Point. 
ANSWER:  
Port Royal 
[10] Another privateer of the period, Henry Morgan, was arrested after violating a 1670 peace treaty by 
raiding this city in 1671, at the time the richest in New Spain. He found very little wealth, although his men 
did torture most of the residents. 
ANSWER:  
Panama 
 City [or Ciudad de  
Panama 
; or  
Panama 
 Viejo] 
052-13-83-10209  
10. Examples include HindII and EcoRI. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these enzymes which cut DNA at specific sequences. They are used in a digest before 
electrophoresis. 
ANSWER:  
restriction 
 enzymes [or  
restriction 
 endonucleases] 
[10] Restriction enzymes can cut both strand at the same nucleotide, forming \"blunt\" ends, or a few 
nucleotides down on one strand, forming this kind of ends. 
ANSWER:  
sticky 
 ends 
[10] At non-optimal conditions or in the presence of some ions, restriction digests lose their specificity, a 
phenomenon given this name. 
ANSWER:  
star 
 activity 
190-13-83-10210  
11. This characters spots his future love interest coming out of the Benedick in the first chapter of the novel 
in which he appears. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this greedy Jewish investor whose proposal of marriage is refused by a social climber who soon 
loses her stature and overdoses on chloral. 
ANSWER: Simon  
Rosedale 
 [or  
Simon 
 Rosedale] 
[10] Simon Rosedale proposes marriage to this woman, the protagonist of  
The House of Mirth. 
 She is 
ostracized due to a rumor she is having an affair with George Dorset. 
ANSWER:  
Lily 
 Bart [or Lily  
Bart 
] 
[10]  
The House of Mirth 
 was written by this American novelist of  
Ethan Frome. 
ANSWER: Edith  
Wharton 
190-13-83-10211  
NASAT 2013     10     Page  9 of 12 
12. In the upper-left hand corner of this painting, an observer from the East is perched precariously along 
the railing of a balcony. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting in which several instruments of torture lie broken as a religious figure swoops 
down to rescue a follower who is being persecuted by his master for his devotion. 
ANSWER:  
The  Miracle of the Slave 
 [or  
The  Miracle of St. Mark 
] 
[10] This Venetian painter created  
The Miracle of the Slave 
 for the Scuola Grande di San Marco, but is 
better known for a version of the Last Supper with a diagonal table. His nickname means \"little dyer.\" 
ANSWER:  
Tintoretto 
 [or Jacopo  
Comin 
; or Jacopo  
Robusti 
] 
[10] A muscular red-clad figure in the painting is incredibly similar to the 20 \"ignudi\" painted by this artist, 
who painted a self-portrait as St. Bartholomew holding his flayed skin. 
ANSWER:  
Michelangelo 
 [or Michelangelo di Lodovico  
Buonarroti 
 Simoni] 
020-13-83-10212  
13. The protagonist of this novel intends to marry the  
osu 
 Clara Okeke. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Obi is caught accepting what he had decided was his last bribe. 
ANSWER:  
No Longer at Ease 
[10] Chinua Achebe wrote  
No Longer at Ease 
 as a sequel to this novel about Okonkwo's life in Umuofia. 
ANSWER:  
Things Fall Apart 
[10] John Pepper Clark called Achebe a prophet because of this novel of his about Odili, who leads a coup 
against the Minister of Culture Chief Nanga. 
ANSWER:  
A  Man of the People 
020-13-83-10213  
14. This son of Athamas and Nephele was one target of a conspiracy by his stepmother Ino to cause his 
death by burning all the seed corn around Thebes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this mythical boy who was saved from a sacrifice by the arrival of a flying ram, which carried 
him eastward. 
ANSWER:  
Phrixus 
[10] Phrixus’s sister fell into this body of water, which is now named for her, as the ram flew over it. 
Leander swam across this strait north of Troy each night to see his lover Hero. 
ANSWER: the  
Hellespont 
 [or  
Dardenelles 
] 
[10] This king of Colchis received Phrixus and gave his daughter Chalciope to Phrixus in marriage. In 
return, Phrixus cut the ram’s wool off to give this man the Golden Fleece. The Argonauts later squared off 
against this king. 
ANSWER:  
Aeetes 
104-13-83-10214  
15. The speaker of this poem wishes that \"some Pow'r\" would grant the gift \"to see oursels as others see us\" 
after contemplating how the title \"creepin, blastit wonner\" has latched onto a lady's bonnet. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this poem. 
ANSWER: \" 
To a Louse 
\" [do not accept or prompt on \"To a Mouse\"] 
[10] \"To a Louse\" was written by this Scottish bard of \"Tam o' Shanter\" and the song \"Auld Lang Syne.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Burns 
[10] In \"To a Mouse,\" Burns used this adverb, meaning \"awry,\" to describe how \"the best laid schemes o' 
mice an' men\" often go. 
ANSWER:  
agley 
080-13-83-10215  
NASAT 2013     10     Page  10 of 12 
16. Two pairs of royal diadems for an ancient king and queen have been found in a tumulus in this region 
that was unearthed during water drainage work. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this region, home to a \"fan dance\" performed by women imitating images from nature and a 
form of blue-green \"kingfisher\" celadon pottery from the 11th to the 13th centuries. 
ANSWER:  
Korea 
n peninsula [or  
Hanguk 
; or  
Joseon 
] 
[10] Later Korean ceramics were made from this material, heavily used in the pottery of the neighboring 
Ming Dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
porcelain 
[10] In both Chinese and Korean art, the \"viewing\" types of these objects were highly prized. These objects 
formed the \"islands\" in many Japanese zen gardens. 
ANSWER:  
rock 
s [or  
stone 
s; or synonyms] 
020-13-83-10216  
17. This man was the first president of Antioch College. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Massachusetts education reformer. His strenuous support of public schools has led him to 
be named the \"father of the common school movement.\" 
ANSWER: Horace  
Mann 
[10] Mann succeeded this former president and son of another president in Congress. This man had died in 
1848. 
ANSWER: John  uincy  
Q Adams 
 [prompt on  
Adams 
; do not accept \"John Adams\"] 
[10] Mann, along with other Whigs like Charles Francis Adams, were part of this anti-slavery Whig faction 
that left the party in 1848 to mostly become members of the new Free Soil Party. 
ANSWER:  
Conscience 
 Whigs 
052-13-83-10217  
18. A rich reservoir of this element is gypsum and pyrite. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this element whose dioxide is a primary contributor to acid rain and which is incorporated in 
amino acids like cysteine and methionine. 
ANSWER:  
sulfur 
[10] This device typically consists of mud from the bottom of a lake, mixed with newspaper, sodium 
sulphate and calcium carbonate, and topped with water from the lake. Often used to illustrate nutrient 
cycling, green and purple sulfur bacteria mark the transition from anaerobic water to anaerobic sediment. 
ANSWER:  
Winogradsky 
 column 
[10] While doing research with the  
Beggiatoa 
 bacteria genus, Sergei Winogradsky discovered the first 
example of lithotrophy when he reported that they oxidized this sulfur compound for energy. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen sulfide 
 [or  
H S 
2 
] 
066-13-83-10218  
19. This phrase was possibly created by Suetonius for his work  
On the Life of the Caesars 
. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this phrase directed against Quintilius Varus by a Roman ruler after the disastrous Battle of 
Teutoburg Forest. 
ANSWER: \" 
give me back my legions 
\" [or \" 
legiones redde 
\"; or \" 
give me back my eagles 
\"] 
[10] That ruler was this man, an adopted nephew of Julius Caesar who became the first Roman emperor. 
ANSWER:  
Augustus 
 Caesar [or  
Octavian 
; or Gaius  
Octavius 
] 
[10] Augustus's forces had more luck during the Battle of Naulochus against this man, who was later 
captured and executed by Marcus Titus. 
ANSWER:  
Sextus Pompeius 
 Magnus Pius 
052-13-83-10219  
NASAT 2013     10     Page  11 of 12 
20. This quantity equals around 25 for alkynes, which allows them to be deprotonated by strong bases. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity which is equal to the pH halfway to the equivalence point in a titration. It measures 
the strength of an acid; a higher value of this quantity means a weaker acid. 
ANSWER:  
pKa 
 [do not accept or prompt on “Ka”] 
[10] According to the leveling effect, this is the strongest acid which can exist in water. This cation consists 
of a proton bonded to water. 
ANSWER:  
hydronium 
 ion [prompt on “H3O+”] 
[10] Strong acids are defined to have a pKa less than hydronium’s. Between what two integers is the pKa 
of hydronium? 
ANSWER:  
-2 and -1 
 [or  
-1 and -2 
] 
190-13-83-10220  
21. Answer the following regarding the creation of new national parks and monuments, for 10 points each. 
[10] In January 2013, this former National Monument, located in central California, became the newest 
National Park in the United States. It is named for spire-like features that resulted from erosion of an 
extinct volcano. 
ANSWER:  
Pinnacles 
 National Park 
[10] In March, land in this state was taken to form the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument. This state 
is also home to White Sands National Monument and Carlsbad Caverns. 
ANSWER:  
New Mexico 
[10] These islands, lying north of the Strait of Juan de Fuca, were also incorporated into a namesake 
National Monument. Home to Orcas Island and Lopez Island, they are part of the state of Washington. 
ANSWER:  
San Juan 
 Islands 
140-13-83-10221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     10     Page  12 of 12 
