NASAT 2013 
Round 18 
Tossups 
1. After taking power, this man allowed a tax assessment system called the Catasto to die out; he also 
started manipulating the  
borse 
 so that his faction would be selected for public office. He was jailed for 
\"[elevating] himself higher than others\" by his opponents, the Albizzi family. This man persuaded Pope 
Eugene IV to move the Council of Ferrara to his city, thereby attracting Byzantine wealth and learning. 
This father of Piero the Gouty served as a patron of the arts, commissioning Donatello's  
David 
 and 
supporting Brunelleschi's bid to design the  
Duomo 
. For 10 points, name this grandfather of Lorenzo the 
Magnificent and founding patriarch of the Medici. 
ANSWER:  
Cosimo 
 de Medici [or  
Cosimo 
 the Elder; or  
Cosimo 
 il Vecchio; do not accept or prompt on 
\"Cosimo I\"] 
080-13-83-18101 
2. The kinetics of one form of this process are described by the equation volume fraction is equal to one 
minus the exponential of the quantity negative rate constant multiplied by time raised to a constant n. 
William Pfann developed a form of this process that does not incorporate carbon or oxygen, by introducing 
a moving \"float zone.\" Silicon boules are created with a type of this process named for Jan Czochralski. 
This process is described by the Avrami equation. This process involves nucleation around a seed and can 
be used to create rock salt. For 10 points, name this process in which a dissolved substance is used to create 
a pure solid with an ordered structure. 
ANSWER:  
crystallization 
 [or  
crystal growth 
; or  
crystal formation 
; or crystal  
nucleation 
; or  
heteregoenous reaction 
 before \"William Pfann\" is read] 
149-13-83-18102 
3. The chorus drops to a whisper to utter the words \"Father in heaven\" in a piece by this composer, which 
sets the sermon \"The Unchangeableness of God\" before the title invocations from the  
Christian Discourses 
and  
Journals 
. A soprano singer representing both a child and adult narrator sings about \"my father who is 
good to me\" in a piece this composer dedicated to his own moribund father. The NBC Symphony 
Orchestra, conducted by Arturo Toscanini, premiered the second movement of his  
String Quartet 
 on the 
radio in 1938. This composer of  
Prayers for Kierkegaard 
 set a prose piece by James Agee for his  
Knoxville: Summer of 1915 
 and wrote a work often used in presidential funerals. For 10 points, name this 
American composer of  
Adagio for Strings 
. 
ANSWER: Samuel  
Barber 
030-13-83-18103 
4. A mouse model of this disease contains a mutation in the protease ZMPSTE24. The autosomal form of 
Emery-Dreyfuss muscular dystrophy is caused by a mutation in the same gene as the mutation that causes 
this disorder. During its synthesis, the protein mutated in this disease is unable to have its farnesyl group 
cleaved off, which causes blebbing. This disease is caused by the activation of a cryptic splice site at 
position 1824 of Lamin A, a component of the nuclear lamina. Symptoms of this disease, which is often 
named for Hutchinson and Gilford, include complete alopecia, a large head, and the early appearance of 
wrinkles. For 10 points, identify this genetic disease which causes rapid aging. 
ANSWER: Hutchinson-Gilford  
progeria 
048-13-83-18104 
NASAT 2013     18     Page  1 of 12 
5. This poet described a “quickly disappearing photograph in my more slowly disappearing hand” in his 
“Portrait of My Father as a Young Man.” One of his poems recounts how “the creatures of stillness crowed 
from the bright unbound forest,” telling its addressee, “You built a temple deep inside their hearing.” This 
poet wrote that “beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror” in one of his most notable poems. He 
opened that poem by asking, “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?” For 10 points, 
name this German poet of  
The Sonnets to Orpheus 
 and the  
Duino Elegies. 
ANSWER: Rainer Maria  
Rilke 
014-13-83-18105 
6. In an address to the United Nations in September 2012, this leader claimed Middle Eastern uprisings 
would spread around the world and repeated the phrase \"long live this spring.\" In February 2013, this man 
played a tape of a conversation describing corruption between Saeed Mortazavi and the brother of his 
political rival Ali Larijani. A photo of this man consoling Elena Frias caused controversy in March 2013 
after this man attended the funeral of Hugo Chavez. This man's Chief of Staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, is 
considered part of a \"deviant current\" and was not be allowed by the Guardian Council to run in the June 
2013 election to succeed this leader. For 10 points, name this man who, in 2005, was elected as president of 
Iran. 
ANSWER: Mahmoud  
Ahmadinejad 
023-13-83-18106 
7. This character joins a group known as the Cadets of Temperance and vows to leave it after the death of 
Judge Frazer. He gets out of drinking a foul-tasting \"pain killer\" by quietly feeding it to a cat. This 
character claims that the first two disciples were David and Goliath. This character takes the blame for 
ripping a page out of Mr. Dobbins’s anatomy book, and he makes Ben Rogers envious of his job by 
claiming that only an expert can complete a certain task. He witnesses another character who murdered Dr. 
Robinson and frames Muff Potter in a graveyard, and he gets lost in a cave for five days with Becky 
Thatcher. For 10 points, name this character who lives with his Aunt Polly in a novel by Mark Twain. 
ANSWER:  
Tom 
 Sawyer [or Tom  
Sawyer 
] 
030-13-83-18107 
8. Artifacts stolen from this country were seized by US Customs in 1994 during a Sotheby's auction; those 
artifacts were taken by Ernil Bernal and identified by archaeologist Walter Alva as coming from this 
country's Huaca Rajada. One culture in this country was responsible for building the world's largest adobe 
city, called Chan Chan. This country home to the Moche and Chimu also held the capital city of the 
Tawantinsuyu, which is the site of the Stone of Twelves Angles. That culture also built a city in this 
country on a ridge above the Urubamba River. For 10 points, name this South American country that is the 
location of the cities Cuzco and Machu Picchu, both built by the Inca. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Peru 
 [or Republica del  
Peru 
] 
023-13-83-18108 
9. Sissela Bok wrote a 1978 book on this activity in “private and public life.” Henry Garnet was attacked 
for supposedly promoting this activity in works that defended the doctrine of mental reservation. A 2005 
book by Harry Frankfurt defines and analyzes a concept he claims is not the same thing as this activity. Leo 
Strauss argued that one thinker promoted a “noble” version of this activity with that man's “Phoenician 
tale.” Criticism from Benjamin Constant led Immanuel Kant to write an essay on the “supposed right” to 
do this “from benevolent motives.” In that essay, Kant maintains it is immoral to do this even if it means 
protecting someone from a murderer. For 10 points, name this activity of stating things which are not true. 
ANSWER:  
lying 
 [or obvious equivalents; or word forms] 
121-13-83-18109 
NASAT 2013     18     Page  2 of 12 
10. One island in this country, which is not Sri Lanka, was once known as \"Junk Ceylon.\" That island in 
this country contains the Two Heroines monument and was where a ten-year old girl named Tilly Smith 
used her grade-school geography knowledge to save countless lives. Its largest island is a resort-laden spot 
on the Andaman Sea which was devastated by the 2004 tsunami, called Phuket. Several \"friendship 
bridges\" connect this country to its eastern neighbor, Laos. For 10 points, name this country ruled by King 
Rama IX from Bangkok. 
ANSWER:  
Thailand 
020-13-83-18110 
11. One of these places was the target of the Condemnation of 1277 issued by Bishop Tempier. An annual 
highlight at these places was the easily-degenerating institution of \"quodlibetal questions.\" Robert 
Grosseteste was a chancellor of one of these places. Another of these places in Naples takes its name from 
Frederick II. A fan of Justinian's  
Corpus 
, Irnerius, was responsible for creating one in Bologna, the oldest 
in Europe. Robert de Sorbon developed one of these institutions in Paris, whose residents went through the  
trivium 
 and  
quadrivium 
 before moving onto Peter Lombard's  
Sentences 
. For 10 points, name this type of 
medieval institution found in Oxford. 
ANSWER:  
universities 
 [or  
university 
; or  
college 
s; or  
universitas 
 scholarum; or  
studium generale 
; 
prompt on  
school 
s] 
080-13-83-18111 
12. This compound transforms Adams’ catalyst to platinum black. This compound is added to organic 
molecules by a catalyst containing cyclooctadiene coordinated to iridium, named for Crabree. The plus-one 
ion of this compound is a common example of the use of perturbation theory in quantum chemistry classes. 
This compound is mixed with carbon monoxide to form syngas. Below 33K, this compound becomes a 
liquid, and is combined with liquid oxygen in hypergolic rocket fuel. The addition of this compound across 
a double bond is used to transform saturated compounds into unsaturated ones by reducing double bonds to 
single bonds. For 10 points, name this compound consisting of two atoms of the lightest element bonded 
together. 
ANSWER:  
H2 
 [or di 
hydrogen 
 gas] 
048-13-83-18112 
13. This character is seduced by the rhetoric of a character who assures him that “sleep after toil, port after 
stormy seas, ease after war, death after life does greatly please.” After taking off his armor to have sex with 
a witch, this character is captured by the giant Orgoglio. The work in which he appears begins with a 
description of him “pricking on the plain” with two companions. After being rescued from a dungeon by 
Prince Arthur and being rejuvenated in the House of Holiness, he slays the dragon harassing the kingdom 
of Una’s parents. For 10 points, name this protagonist of the first book of  
The Faerie Queene. 
ANSWER:  
Redcrosse 
 Knight 
014-13-83-18113 
14. In American and Irish folklore, an evil man named John of this profession becomes \"Jack O'Lantern\" 
after tricking the Devil and being denied entrance to hell. Another man of this profession gets hamstrung 
and forced to work for the king of Sweden, Nidud. Another figure with this profession loses his first wife to 
Kullervo, having earlier failed to win the Maiden of Pohjola through his gift of the Sampo. This trade is 
practiced in Finnish myth by Ilmarinen and, in many Germanic traditions, by Volund. Another god of this 
profession was raised by Thetis on Lemnos after Zeus threw him out of Mount Olympus. For 10 points, 
name this trade practiced by the Greek god Hephaestus. 
ANSWER: black 
smith 
 [prompt on  
craftsman 
] 
080-13-83-18114 
NASAT 2013     18     Page  3 of 12 
15. One of these bodies has two nearby features named for Swift and Voltaire and a surface covered by 
regolith; another has many spots, such as Limtoc, named for characters from  
Gulliver’s Travels 
. These 
objects, which are thought to be made of carbonaceous chondrites, were discovered by Asaph Hall. The 
larger of these objects is thought to have suffered a large impact due to 700-meter-wide grooves projecting 
out from its massive Stickney crater, and passes over the Valles Marineris by making a full orbit in just 
over four hours. For 10 points, name these two irregularly-shaped objects, each a few miles wide, which 
orbit a red planet. 
ANSWER:  
moon 
s of  
Mars 
 [or  
Phobos and Deimos 
; or  
Deimos and Phobos 
 before read] 
104-13-83-18115 
16. Workers in this industry conversed in ritualized meetings called \"gams.\" This industry, which boomed 
with the installation of cast-iron \"tryworks\" for boiling, also produced hand-carved artifacts called 
\"scrimshaw.\" In 2008, the  
Two Brothers 
, which took part in this industry, was discovered; that ship's 
captain, George Pollard, was also captain of a ship whose crew resorted to cannibalism after the  
Essex 
 sunk 
while at work in this industry. This industry, which produced necessary raw materials for corsets, candles, 
and oil lamps, brought wealth to New Bedford and Nantucket in the nineteenth century. For 10 points, 
name this American industry depicted in  
Moby-Dick 
. 
ANSWER: American  
whaling 
 industry [accept equivalent answers] 
080-13-83-18116 
17. Eighteen exponents of this art movement were depicted as \"The Irascibles\" in a photograph by Nina 
Leen after they signed an open letter attacking the exhibit  
American Painting Today 
. Many painters in this 
movement learned from the artist of  
The Gate 
, Hans Hofmann. Clement Greenberg promoted this 
movement in his writings for the  
Partisan Review 
. One exemplar of this movement was inspired by Stone 
Age fertility goddesses in painting his  
Woman Series 
, while another painted  
Full Fathom Five 
 and 
energetically flung paint at a canvas to create  
Autumn Rhythm 
 and  
Lavendar Mist 
. For 10 points, name this 
avant-garde art movement exemplified by Willem de Kooning and Jackson Pollock. 
ANSWER:  
Abstract Expressionism 
 [prompt on  
Abstract 
 Art; prompt on  
Action Painting 
] 
080-13-83-18117 
18. In later life, this man founded the Society for the Knowledge of God with his wife, Mathilde. This 
general tried to win one war by launching Operations Michael, Georgette, and Bluecher-Yorck in a final 
attempt to break the Allied lines known as the Spring Offensives. Before that war, this non-von Moltke 
individual was responsible for revising the Schlieffen Plan. This man's writings blaming left-wing 
politicians for Germany's defeat formed the foundation for the stab-in-the-back legend. For 10 points, name 
this German general who helped Adolf Hitler in the Beer Hall Putsch and led the German military during 
World War I along with Paul von Hindenburg. 
ANSWER: Erich  
Ludendorff 
080-13-83-18118 
19. This character visits a palace precariously perched atop a pole after his wife tells him that the Emperor 
Hugo is more handsome than he is. In another work, he dreams of a dog leaping from a palace and fighting 
a chained bear. In a novel, this character assigns the wild man Gurduloo to the title character, Agilulf. His 
son's murderer completes the redemptive tasks he sets with the aid of Oberon. He is described as having a 
\"flowing white beard\" in another poem, in which he personally kills Baligant using his sword Joyeuse and 
orders the execution of Ganelon for conspiring with the Saracens to kill this man's nephew, Roland. For 10 
points, name this character served by twelve Paladins in  
The Matter of France 
, a historical Frankish king. 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
 [or  
Charles the Great 
; or  
Charles I 
] 
029-13-83-18119 
NASAT 2013     18     Page  4 of 12 
20. The clarinet opens this opera with a rising scale split halfway between C-sharp major and G major. 
After one character condemns the protagonist's mother, she replies by praising that character's ivory skin, 
black hair, and red mouth. The opening motif of this opera plays again as the moon disappears behind the 
clouds, shortly before the protagonist is crushed to death by soldiers' shields at the command of her 
stepfather. At this opera's premiere, Marie Wittich refused to perform “the Dance of the Seven Veils.” This 
opera's libretto was based on Hedwig Lachmann's translation of an Oscar Wilde play. For 10 points, name 
this Richard Strauss opera whose title character asks for the head of the prophet Jochanaan. 
ANSWER:  
Salome 
121-13-83-18120 
21. A dye called “Oil”  
this color 
 “O” is used to stain neutral triglycerides, which also indicates a positive 
result of the VP test for acetonin. A dye called “Congo” this color is used to stain amyloid fibers. It’s not 
purple or pink, but in Gram staining, the counterstain safranin has this color. Heating white phosophorous 
to 280 C transforms it to an amorphous allotrope with this color. In the CPK coloring scheme used for 
organic chemistry modelling kits, oxygen appears this color. Radium, strontium, and calcium all appear this 
color under the flame test, and litmus paper turns this color under acidic conditions. For 10 points, name 
this color, which is the standard color of both oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin. 
ANSWER:  
red 
 [accept things like  
crimson 
] 
048-13-83-18121 
22. Despite not being a native English speaker. this man became known in England for his editorship of the 
works of Thomas Hobbes.This thinker wrote that people can group around either the \"essential will\" or the 
\"arbitrary will.\" He analyzed these forms of collective will in his book  
Custom, 
 which was expanded into 
his  
Critique of Public Opinion. 
The Nazis deposed this man as president of the German Sociological 
Society, which he led for the first twenty-four years of its existence. He wrote a book that contrasted 
organization based on collective mores with that based on rational self-interest, which is often portrayed as 
depicting the division between smaller, traditional \"community\" and larger, modern \"society.\" For 10 
points, name this sociologist who wrote  
Gemeinschaft und Gesellschaft. 
ANSWER: Ferdinand  
Tönnies 
019-13-83-18122 
23. In this poem, \"my friend\" likely refers to the poet to whom it was originally dedicated, Jessie Pope. An 
early version of this poem was sent to the author's mother from Craiglockhart. This poem describes how 
\"All went lame; all blind; drunk with fatigue\" before proposing that the addressee share the speaker's 
experience by means of \"some smothering dreams.\" This poem describes a \"hanging face, like a devil's sick 
of sin\" and the blood \"obscene as cancer, bitter as the cud of vile, incurable sores\" coming from the 
\"froth-corrupted lungs\" of one of the speaker's companions. This poem refutes \"the old Lie\" taken from an 
ode by Horace. For 10 points, name this poem about a gas attack written by Wilfred Owen. 
ANSWER: \" 
Dulce et Decorum Est 
\" 
023-13-83-18123 
NASAT 2013     18     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2013 
Round 18 
Bonuses 
1. For 10 points each, give these things from psychology that were named after the university at which they 
were created. 
[10] Philip Zimbardo divided participants in this experiment into roles of inmate or guard. Though 
scheduled to run for two weeks, it was stopped after six days. 
ANSWER:  
Stanford Prison 
 Experiment 
[10] Originally developed by Starke Hathaway and J.C. McKinley, this test, which now consists of 567 
true-false questions, is designed to evaluate patients on ten clinical subscales of \"abnormal\" behavior. 
ANSWER:  
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory 
 [or  
MMPI 
-2] 
[10] The somatic marker hypothesis was developed to explain the results of this experiment, in which 
participants draw from decks of cards with varying long-term expected values. 
ANSWER: Iowa  
Gambling Task 
003-13-83-18201  
2. A ball of mass m is dropped from height h on Earth. It takes time t to reach the ground. Neglecting air 
resistance, in terms of m, h, and local gravity, g, express the following values, for 10 points each. 
[10] What is the weight of the ball? 
ANSWER:  
m g 
 [or   times  ; or obvious equivalents] 
m g 
[10] At time one-half t, how far has the ball fallen? 
ANSWER:  
h/4 
 [or  
0.25h 
; or one- 
fourth h 
; or obvious equivalents] 
[10] What is the speed of the ball immediately before it touches the ground? 
ANSWER: the square  
root 
 of  
two g h 
 [or  
root two times g times h 
; or obvious equivalents] 
190-13-83-18202  
3. This aria's singer states that \"Your daddy's rich, and your mamma's good looking.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this aria, with lyrics by DuBose Heyward, that is sung Clara in Catfish Row at the beginning of 
a 1935 opera. 
ANSWER: \" 
Summertime 
\" 
[10] \"Summertime\" opens this George Gershwin opera, which ends with one of the title characters going to 
New York with Sportin' Life. 
ANSWER:  
Porgy and Bess 
[10] Sportin' Life earlier casts aspersions on the stories of David and Goliath, Jonah and the whale, and 
Moses's discovery by Pharoah's daughter in this song from  
Porgy and Bess. 
ANSWER: \" 
It Ain't Necessarily So 
\" 
192-13-83-18203  
NASAT 2013     18     Page  6 of 12 
4. This character's recommended reading list includes Boethius and Batman, with little else in between. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who sells hot dogs for Paradise Vendors and writes diatribes against modern 
society in his Big Chief notepads. 
ANSWER:  
Ignatius 
 J. Reilly [or Ignatius J.  
Reilly 
] 
[10] Ignatius J. Reilly is the protagonist of  
A Confederacy of Dunces, 
 a novel by this author whose work 
was heavily influenced by his hometown of New Orleans. 
ANSWER: John Kennedy  
Toole 
[10] Another author whose work was intimately tied to his city was this Los Angeles resident, who featured 
his alter ego Henry Chinaski in novels such as Ham on Rye, Hollywood, and Post Office. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Bukowski 
121-13-83-18204  
5. The carruca replaced the simpler ard, a type of this device in the ninth and tenth century, greatly 
increasing agricultural productivity. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this farming tool that turns up soil before sowing, not to be confused with the hoe. 
ANSWER:  
plow 
s 
[10] The use of the carruca was accompanied by adoption of this system of crop rotation. Unlike the system 
it replaced, this one had a smaller amount of the total land lie fallow and used some of the land for legumes 
like peas or lentils. 
ANSWER:  
three-field 
 system 
[10] Improvements in agriculture couldn't prevent the Great Famine of 1315 during the reign of this 
English king. This man's son of the same name began fighting the Hundred Years' War. 
ANSWER:  
Edward II 
 [or  
Edward Caernarvon 
; prompt on  
Edward 
] 
121-13-83-18205  
6. Name these artists who adapted Velasquez's  
Las Meninas 
, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Spanish artist who created the  
Black Paintings 
 included himself to the left of an 1800 depiction of 
the royal family of Charles IV, often considered a satirical response to  
Las Meninas 
. 
ANSWER: Francisco Jose de  
Goya 
 y Lucientes 
[10] This painter's series of 58 studies of  
Las Meninas 
 includes a black-and-white version with a stick 
figure chasing a dog in the front. He created an allegory of his late friend, who killed himself after being 
spurned by a lover, in his painting  
La Vie 
. 
ANSWER: Pablo  
Picasso 
[10] This contemporary artist from Colombia depicted himself painting a highly-disfigured scene of 
political elites in  
The Presidential Family 
. He often paints exaggerated, fat figures, as in his series depicting 
the Abu Ghraib abuses. 
ANSWER: Fernando  
Botero 
 Angulo 
190-13-83-18206  
NASAT 2013     18     Page  7 of 12 
7. For 10 points each, name these English essayists. 
[10] This author ruminated upon her walk through London to buy a pencil in the essay \"Street Haunting,\" 
though she is better known for her feminist essay  
A Room of One's Own. 
ANSWER: Virginia  
Woolf 
[10] This essayist described his favorite mode of transportation in \"The English Mail-Coach\" and 
Shakespeare's artistic suspension of ordinary human life in \"On the Knocking at the Gate in  
Macbeth 
.\" 
ANSWER: Thomas  
De Quincey 
[10] This man analyzed English writers in his essay collection  
Appreciations 
 and wrote about Botticelli, 
Pico della Mirandola, and others in his masterwork,  
The Renaissance 
. 
ANSWER: Walter  
Pater 
020-13-83-18207  
8. Answer the following about court cases that removed restrictions on workers, for 10 points each. 
[10] The  
Lochner 
 case invoked this amendment to keep working hours unlimited for New York bakers on 
\"liberty of contract\" grounds. Per Holmes's dissent, this amendment, which contains the Equal Protection 
clause, \"does not enact Mr. Herbert Spencer's Social Statics.\" 
ANSWER:  
Fourteenth 
 Amendment to the United States Constitution 
[10] This 1908 case ruled that states could make laws specifically limiting the working hours of women. 
The data-heavy \"Brandeis brief\" influenced this ruling. 
ANSWER:  
Muller  v. Oregon 
 [or  
Oregon v.  Muller 
] 
[10] This Chief Justice during the  
Lochner 
 and  
Muller 
 cases also struck a blow against the Sherman 
Anti-Trust act with his majority opinion that manufacture isn't commerce in the  
E.C. Knight 
 case. 
ANSWER: Melville  
Fuller 
104-13-83-18208  
9. For 10 points each, answer the following about rigged races from Greek mythology. 
[10] Pelops convinced this charioteer to sabotage Oenomaus' chariot, ultimately killing him. Pelops repaid 
this guy by throwing him off a cliff. 
ANSWER:  
Myrtilus 
[10] This woman lost a footrace after stopping three times to pick up golden apples thrown by a suitor 
variously named Melanion or Hippomenes. 
ANSWER:  
Atalanta 
[10] This man would have won the footrace in Patroclus's funeral games had Athena not rigged the race 
and caused him to stumble near the finish. 
ANSWER:  
Ajax 
 the  
Lesser 
 [or  
Locrian Ajax 
; prompt on  
Ajax 
; do not accept \"Ajax the Greater\"; do not 
accept \"Telamonian Ajax\"] 
003-13-83-18209  
10. Answer some questions relating to aeolian deposits, for 10 points each. 
[10] These geological structures, whose leeward face is called a slip face, come in barchan, transverse, 
linear, star, and parabolic varieties. 
ANSWER:  
dune 
s 
[10] This type of sedimentary deposit that gives the Yellow River its name is defined as wind-deposited 
dust which consists largely of silt but is commonly accompanied by fine sand and clay. 
ANSWER:  
loess 
[10] Examining the cross-sectional anatomy of a dune yields evidence of these units representing old slip 
faces. They sit beneath the thin topset strata and are horizontally-oriented units which are internally 
composed of inclined layers. 
ANSWER:  
cross-bedding 
 [or  
cross-bedded 
 strata] 
189-13-83-18210  
NASAT 2013     18     Page  8 of 12 
11. The blockage of one vein that passes through this structure causes esophageal varices and a horrific 
condition in which the abdominal veins become visible, called caput medusa. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this organ, which is scarred and fibrosed in a condition common in longterm alcoholics called 
cirrhosis. 
ANSWER:  
liver 
[10] This vein carries blood from the enteric system from the liver. 
ANSWER: hepatic  
portal 
 vein 
[10] These structures, which is surrounded by a limiting plate of hepatocytes, consistes of a bile duct, a 
hepatic artery, and a branch of the hepatic portal vein. 
ANSWER:  
portal triad 
048-13-83-18211  
12. Answer these questions about typography, for 10 points each. 
[10] “Lorem ipsum,” a set of junk Latin words used to test a typeface, originates from this Roman orator’s  
On Moral Ends 
. He also made speeches denouncing Catiline and Marc Antony. 
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius  
Cicero 
[10] This process or property refers to the adjusted amount of space between any two individual characters 
of a typed phrase. Unlike tracking, it does not refer to the average space between all characters. 
ANSWER:  
kern 
ing [or  
mortis 
ing] 
[10] Ascenders and descenders have their length measured above or below the height of this lower-case 
letter, whose size determines the default character size of a font. 
ANSWER: lower case   [or  
x x-height 
] 
104-13-83-18212  
13. One type of this phenomenon occurs in Bénard cells, in which hot fluid rises as a plume in the center 
and cooler fluid descends on the sides. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this form of heat transfer that occurs via fluids. 
ANSWER:  
convection 
[10] The left-hand side of these equations contains a convective term, which describes turbulence. 
ANSWER:  
Navier-Stokes 
 equations 
[10] The governing equations for an incompressible flow are the momentum equation and this equation, 
which is based on the conservation of matter. More generally, these equations describe the transport of a 
conserved quantity. 
ANSWER:  
continuity 
 equation 
190-13-83-18213  
NASAT 2013     18     Page  9 of 12 
14. This man temporarily gave up his throne after he was forced to sign the Treaty of Altranstadt. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this Saxon elector who regained his throne after the Battle of Poltava, and whose death led to 
the War of the Polish Succession 
ANSWER:  
Augustus the Strong 
 [or  
Augustus II 
; or  
Augustus Frederick 
; or  
August II Wettin 
; or  
August Mocny 
; or  
August der Starke 
; prompt on  
August 
us] 
[10] Augustus supported this czar during the Great Northern War, which this man fought against Charles 
XII. 
ANSWER:  
Peter the Great 
 [or  
Peter I 
; or  
Pyotr Alekseyevich 
; or  
Pyotr Veliky 
; prompt on  
Peter 
] 
[10] This prince's final battle came during the War of the Polish Succession, when he failed to lift a siege 
on Philippsburg. In his prime, he decisively defeated the Ottomans at the Battle of Zenta and helped fight 
the Comte de Tallard in a 1704 battle. 
ANSWER: Francois- 
Eugene 
 of Savoy [or Franz- 
Eugen 
] 
020-13-83-18214  
15. For 10 points each, answer the following about notoriously obscene French novels. 
[10] The young girl Cecile Volanges is raped by her music teacher in this novel about a perverse contest of 
debauchery between the Marquise de Merteuil and the Vicomte de Valmont. 
ANSWER:  
Les  Liaisons Dangereuses 
 [or  
The  Dangerous Liasions 
] 
[10] This Bastille inmate wrote about a young girl who is brought up at a monastery, where she is forced to 
participate in orgies with monks, in his novel  
Justine. 
ANSWER: Marquis de  
Sade 
[10] The title character's affairs with Rodolphe Boulanger and Leon Dupuis resulted in this novel's author, 
Gustave Flaubert, being tried in 1857 for obscenity. 
ANSWER:  
Madame Bovary 
020-13-83-18215  
16. This 1792 work claims that miseducation creates women who are similar to hothouse flowers that 
bloom too early and thus become weak. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this pioneering treatise on feminism that attacks Rousseau's views on the education of women 
expressed in his  
Emile 
. 
ANSWER:  
A Vindication of the Rights of Woman 
[10]  
A Vindication of the Rights of Woman 
 was a work of this English author who was the wife of the 
philosopher William Godwin and who wrote the novel  
Mary, A Fiction 
. 
ANSWER: Mary  
Wollstonecraft 
[10] This other philosopher served in Parliament and sponsored the 1868 Married Women's Property Bill. 
He wrote that \"the legal subordination of one sex to the other is wrong in itself….\" in his pamphlet  
The 
Subjection of Women 
. 
ANSWER: John Stuart  
Mill 
030-13-83-18216  
NASAT 2013     18     Page  10 of 12 
17. These objects can be bipartite if they can be split into two sets of vertices such that every vertex in one 
set is connected to every vertex in the other. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these mathematical objects that consist of a set of vertices connected by edges. 
ANSWER:  
graph 
s 
[10] This mathematician names a type of cycle in which every vertex in a graph is visited exactly once. He 
invented a four-dimensional vector space that serves as an extension of the complex numbers. 
ANSWER: William Rowan  
Hamilton 
[10] This theorem states that a graph is nonplanar if and only if it contains a subgraph homeomorphic to the 
utility graph or the complete graph on five vertices. 
ANSWER:  
Kuratowski's 
 Theorem 
080-13-83-18217  
18. A version of this composer's  
Fratres for Cello and Piano 
 was used in the film  
There Will Be Blood 
. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this modern composer of works like  
Spiegel im Spiegel 
 and  
Tabula Rasa 
, in which he achieved 
\"tintinnabulation.\" 
ANSWER: Arvo  
Part 
[10] Part's sacred works use the \"holy\" form of this simple, repetitive musical style, exemplified by Terry 
Riley and Philip Glass. 
ANSWER:  
minimalism 
 [or word forms] 
[10] Part wrote a short canon in A minor as an elegy to mourn the death of this composer, who himself 
composed a setting of the Requiem Mass interspersed with text from Wilfred Owen poems. 
ANSWER: Edward Benjamin  
Britten 
, Baron Britten of Aldeburgh 
020-13-83-18218  
19. This character has an affair with his secretary Sharon Kincaid. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this New Orleans stockbroker who travels to Chicago with his step-cousin Kate Cutrer in  
The 
Moviegoer 
. 
ANSWER: Binx  
Bolling 
 [or  
Binx 
 Bolling] 
[10] This Southern novelist wrote  
The Moviegoer 
. He also created Dr. Tom More in  
Love in the Ruins. 
ANSWER: Walker  
Percy 
[10] Other works set in Louisiana include many of the stories by this other Southern author, such as 
\"Desiree's Baby\" and  
The Awakening. 
ANSWER: Kate  
Chopin 
149-13-83-18219  
20. Elena Poniatowska collected testimonies of victims of this event in a 1970 work about \"The Night\" of 
it. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1968 killing of students protesting government attacks on their university's autonomy at the 
Plaza of Three Cultures. 
ANSWER:  
Tlatelolco 
 Massacre 
[10] The Tlatelolco Massacre occurred in this city, at the instigation of the PRI government. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico City 
 [or  
Ciudad de Mexico 
] 
[10] This general event began ten days after the massacre in Mexico City, and caused its own controversy 
when participants Tommie Smith and John Carlos gave black power salutes. 
ANSWER: 1968 Summer  
Olympics 
121-13-83-18220  
NASAT 2013     18     Page  11 of 12 
21. Somewhat similar to polo, this game can last for days, and it is illegal to start a game of it without 
giving an oath to play fairly. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this popular game of Central Asia that is played with a headless goat carcass. 
ANSWER:  
Buzkashi 
 [or  
Kokpar 
] 
[10] Buzkashi is the national sport of this country, whose city of Kandahar is the chief commercial center 
of its southern region. 
ANSWER:  
Afghanistan 
[10] The majority of people in Afghanistan belong to this ethnic group, whose tradition claims that they are 
descended from Afghana, the grandson of King Saul. Approximately 25 million members of this group live 
in Pakistan. 
ANSWER:  
Pashtun 
 [or  
Pakhtun 
; or  
Pathan 
] 
030-13-83-18221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     18     Page  12 of 12 
