VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 8 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This singer first gained attention as a twelve-year-old for “Fingertips, Pt. 2”, and along with Smokey 
Robinson co-wrote “Tears Of A Clown”. He sang “now I’m back and not ashamed to cry” in the title track 
of his 1970 album  
Signed, Sealed, Delivered 
, while  
Songs In The Key Of Life 
 featured a song about his 
daughter “less than one minute old”. For 10 points, name this Motown pianist of “Uptight (Everything’s 
Alright)”, “Superstition”, and “Isn’t She Lovely”, who is also known for being blind since birth. 
ANSWER: Stevie  
Wonder 
 [or Stevland Hardaway  
Morris 
 or Stevland Hardaway  
Judkins 
] 
082-10-18-08101 
2. This colony's eastern border was settled by the Treaty of Beaufort in the wake of the American 
Revolution. Governed for a time by James Wright, during the War of Jenkins' Ear it was the site of the 
Battle of Bloody Marsh. That battle was won by the man who obtained the charter for this colony as a relief 
for debtors' prisons named James Oglethorpe. In the 1830s, many of its Cherokee Indian residents were 
forcibly removed during the Trail of Tears. For 10 points, name this state, which during the Civil War saw 
the siege of Atlanta. 
ANSWER:  
Georgia 
040-10-18-08102 
3. This man wrote a play whose title character is a sorcerer whose liquor turns guests into monsters. In 
addition to  
Comus 
, this man wrote \"Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil\" in an elegy written on the 
drowning of Edward King, \"Lycidas.\" In Book I of his most famous work, the palace of Pandemonium is 
built and Beelzebub presents Satan's plan for revenge against God following their banishment from heaven. 
For 10 points, name this English poet of  
Paradise Lost 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Milton 
030-10-18-08103 
4. One political cartoon that satirized this legislation shows a procession of people including Mr. 
Anti-Sejanus being led to a vault above which are two skulls on poles. In the wake of this act's passage, 
Ebenezer MacIntosh led a group of people in an assault on the house of Thomas Hutchinson. This act also 
led to the formation of Committees of Correspondence. Promulgated by George Grenville, it stipulated that 
many written items be printed on a taxable type of paper with a certain insignia. For 10 points, name this 
1765 Act. 
ANSWER:  
Stamp 
 Act 
040-10-18-08104 
5. A portion of these structures is subdivided into the cuticle and cortex; another portion consists of a bulb 
whose cells are the most rapidly dividing of the human body. The papilla, sebaceous gland, and shaft are 
three anatomical features of these structures, which is made up of a hard protein known as keratin and can 
renew without scarring. One hundred thousand of their constituent follicles are found on the scalp. For 10 
points, identify these anatomical protrusions commonly found on the face and atop the head. 
ANSWER:  
hair 
s 
020-10-18-08105 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  1 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. The man who planned this event, Bayard Rustin, was kept behind the scenes of this event by Roy 
Wilkins due to his homosexuality. At this event, UAW president Walter Reuther stated, \"We cannot defend 
freedom in Berlin so long as we deny freedom in Birmingham.\" Another speaker at this event stated that 
America defaulted on a promissory note and the nation should not \"overlook the urgency of the moment.\" 
For 10 points, name this rally around the steps of the Lincoln Memorial at which Martin Luther King, Jr., 
gave his \"I Have a Dream\" speech. 
ANSWER: The  
March on Washington 
 for Jobs and Freedom [or  
1963 March 
 on Washington; or 
reasonable equivalents such as  
King's March 
 on Washington; prompt on  
I Have a Dream 
 before 
mentioned;] 
030-10-18-08106 
7. The now-shrunken Lake Moeris was once connected by the Bahr Yussef canal into this river The farthest 
reaches of this river are the infamously corpse-infested Akagera River and the Coptic-Church monastery 
paradise of Lake Tana. The later is the source of a \"Blue\" namesake of this river, which possesses six 
regions of rocky rapids known as Cataracts, the very first of which is at the sight of Aswan. For 10 points, 
identify this river that flows through Upper and Lower Egypt. 
ANSWER:  
Nile 
 River [or  
iteru 
; or  
?'p? 
; or  
phiaro 
] 
020-10-18-08107 
8. This sport's indoor variety, known as its \"box\" type, features smaller goals and a shot clock to increase 
the pace of play. One team that competes in this sport's international events is the Iroquois Nationals. A 
team may have seven players on its half of the field at any given time, but only up to six players on the 
opposing side's half of the field. Three players of this sport at Duke University were charged with sexual 
crimes in 2006. For 10 points, name this field sport played with a stick that has a net on one end. 
ANSWER:  
lacrosse 
040-10-18-08108 
9. One explanation of this developed by Bolzano includes using two Greek letters to define an error and a 
distance. Known as the epsilon-delta definition of this function, L'Hopital's Rule gives a way to evaluate 
this function using derivatives for certain expressions. Often used to evaluate functions from the right or 
left side of an input, for 10 points, name this function that provides a value for an equation as it approaches 
a particular point. 
ANSWER:  
limit 
 function 
084-10-18-08109 
10. In one play written by an author from this country, Crispin attempts to set up Leander and Sylvia. In 
addition to being the homeland of the author of  
The Bonds of Interest 
, it is the homeland of the dramatist of 
The Dog in the Manger 
 and  
The Sheep Well 
. Jacinto Benavente (ha-SEEN-toe bay-nuh-VEN-tay) hails 
from this country, as does the author of  
The Trickster of Seville 
, Tirso de Molina. For 10 points, name this 
nation home to Lope (LOW-pay) de Vega and Federico García Lorca. 
ANSWER:  
Spain 
040-10-18-08110 
11. One policy instituted by this leader was the Rectification Movement. This leader's wife was a member 
of a group known as the Gang of Four. One event that marked this ruler's ascent to power was a military 
action in which this leader's forces relocated away from those of the Kuomintang (KWO-min-tang). That 
action was known as the Long March. Opposed to the Chinese Nationalist Party led by Chiang Kai-Shek, 
for 10 points, name this first leader of Communist China whose quotations were collected in the \"Little Red 
Book.\" 
ANSWER:  
Mao 
 Zedong [or  
Mao 
 Tse-tung] 
081-10-18-08111 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  2 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This figure added games in honor of Poseidon to the Isthmian Games, and this man got stuck in the 
underworld after agreeing to help his friend Pirithous rescue Persephone. The son of Aegeus, this man 
flung Sciron off a cliff. He also killed a man who hacked and racked people to fit into his bed; that man was 
Procrustes. This man accomplished one of his tasks with the help of the daughter of Minos, Ariadne. For 10 
points, name this Greek hero who slew the Minotaur. 
ANSWER:  
Theseus 
030-10-18-08112 
13. Population inversion is achieved in diatomic nitrogen and in this molecule in order to produce infrared 
light in the most commonly used form of laser industrially. In the body, a certain \"anhydrase\" enzyme 
converts this molecule into an anion. The bond angles of this molecule are 180 degrees, thus making it the 
textbook example of a molecule with linear geometry. At atmospheric pressure, it does not form a liquid, 
instead undergoing deposition from its normal form into dry ice. For 10 points, identify this greenhouse gas 
with formula CO2. 
ANSWER:  
carbon dioxide 
 [accept  
CO2 
 prior to mention] 
020-10-18-08113 
14. Past proposals have suggested using bubble chambers to further this process, while devices called 
tokamaks are designed to study this process by sustaining plasma tori. Brown dwarfs are celestial objects 
who are not able to sustain this process and are thus referred to as \"failed stars,\" since bodies such as the 
Sun continually perform this process. For 10 points name this term for the joining of atomic nuclei whose 
\"cold\" variety has yet to prove viable, and that is contrasted with fission. 
ANSWER: nuclear  
fusion 
081-10-18-08114 
15. This poet described a crucifix in the antlers of a deer returning to an innyard in “The Hunter in the 
Snow,” which joins his “Landscape with the Fall of Icarus” as part of his  
Pictures from Breughel 
. In 
another poem, he wrote, “forgive me, they were delicious, so sweet and so cold” regarding “the plums in 
the icebox.” His masterpiece describes an object “glazed with rainwater beside the white chickens.” For 10 
points, identify this American poet who wrote that “so much depends on a red wheelbarrow.” 
ANSWER: William Carlos  
Williams 
020-10-18-08115 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  3 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 8 
Directed Round 
1A.  Jake in  
Adventure Time 
 and the purple-colored Courage, who is a “cowardly” one, are examples of 
this kind of animal. 
ANSWER:  
dog 
s 
1B.  Give the adjective that describes August Comte’s philosophy and statements contrasted with 
“normative” ones. 
ANSWER:  
positive 
 [or  
positivism 
] 
2A.  Supernatural versions of these animals in Japanese folklore are known as “bakeneko.” Identify these 
animals that were protected by Bast and venerated by the ancient Egyptians. 
ANSWER:  
cat 
s 
2B.  What disorder characterized by Brushfield spots and underdeveloped motor skills develops when a 
person has three copies of chromosome 21? 
ANSWER:  
Down 
 syndrome or  
Down’s 
 syndrome [or  
trisomy 21 
 or  
trisomy G 
] 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. Evaluate the expression x  / 2y for x = 3 and y = 1. 
2 
ANSWER:  
9/2 
 [or  
4.5 
] 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. In triangle ABC, angle A is 30 degrees, and angle C is twice 
angle B. Find angle B. 
ANSWER:   degrees 
50 
4A.  What twentieth century artistic movement includes works depicting motion and speed such as 
Umberto Boccioni's sculpture  
Unique Forms of Continuity in Space 
? 
ANSWER:  
Futurism 
4B.  Name the 1932 novel by Aldous Huxley which sees Bernard Marx bring John the Savage to a 
futuristic civilization obsessed with the drug soma. 
ANSWER:  
Brave New World 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the median of the set {14, 7, 12, 18, 9, 20}. 
ANSWER:  
13 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If three six-sided dice are rolled, find the probability that the 
sum of the dice is 4. 
ANSWER:  
1/72 
 [or  
1:72 
] 
6A.  Name the economic situation where creating a larger money supply will not lower interest rates and 
will thus not stimulate the economy. 
ANSWER:  
liquidity trap 
6B.  In Edward Arlington Robinson’s “Mr. Flood’s Party,” this quality is rueful and lonely. Identify this 
term that describe’s an author’s attitude in a work, closely related to the mood. 
ANSWER:  
tone 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If f of x = x  + 2x, find f of 7. 
3 
ANSWER:  
357 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The formula for sine of twice x is two times sine x times 
cosine x. If theta is a first-quadrant angle for which sine of theta is 3/5, find sine of twice theta. 
ANSWER:  
24/25 
 or  
0.96 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  4 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8A.  Name the waltz by Frederic Chopin whose title refers to the short amount of time it takes to play it. 
ANSWER: “ 
Minute 
 Waltz” 
8B.  September 2010 reports suggest that Jong-un is the planned successor to what man, the son of the 
\"Eternal President\" Kim Il-Sung and leader of North Korea? 
ANSWER:  
Kim Jong-il 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
9A.  Give the adjective that names a collision in which momentum is conserved, but kinetic energy is not. 
ANSWER:  
inelastic 
 [accept  
inelastic collision 
] 
9B. Version 6 of this program is being implemented to prevent the exhaustion of computer addresses under 
the version 4 of this protocol often paired with Transmission Control Protocol. 
ANSWER:  nternet  rotocol 
I P 
10A.  What title, meaning “teacher” in Sanskrit, is given to the 10 leaders of Sikhism, including Aamar 
Das, Nanak Dev, and Gobind Singh? 
ANSWER:  
guru 
10B.  What author of  
The Sceptical Chymist 
 (“chemist”) is best known for his law that states that the 
pressure and volume of a gas are inversely proportional? 
ANSWER: Robert  
Boyle 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  5 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 8 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. During the Mexican American War, this man discovered a hidden pass which was instrumental to 
American victory at the battle of Cerro Gordo. He led the marines that defeated John Brown’s raid on 
Harper’s Ferry. In another conflict, he was derisively called the “King of Spades,” but he won the Battle of 
Cold Harbor by digging in. He also divided his army to defeat overwhelming odds at Chancellorsville, 
losing his trusted general Stonewall Jackson in the process. For 10 points, name this commander of the 
Confederate Army during the Civil War. 
ANSWER: Robert Edward  
Lee 
015-10-18-08117 
2. Now considered the first person involved in this event, he described the combustion of saltpeter and 
manganese dioxide in his work  
A Chemical Treatise of Air and Fire 
. In addition to Carl Wilhelm Scheele 
another person involved in this event suggested using soda water, a process he initially described, as a cure 
for scurvy, and as a result of this event the phlogiston theory was overturned. For 10 points, name this 
event once credited to Joseph Priestly involving an element named by Lavoisier. 
ANSWER:  
discovery of oxygen 
 [accept clear-knowledge equivalents] 
084-10-18-08118 
3. By the terms of a treaty signed in this city, Stanislaw Leszczynski accepted the rule of Augustus III, who 
had been the Duke of Saxony; that treaty ended the War of the Polish Succession. Wilhelm von 
Roggendorf defended this city from an attack that included large numbers of ineffective Sipahi cavalry, 
while Jan III Sobieski aided in the 1683 defense of this city from an assault ordered by Mehmet IV. Twice 
besieged by the Ottomans, for 10 points, name this European city, the capital of Austria. 
ANSWER:  
Vienna 
040-10-18-08119 
4. One character in this novel symbolically eschews his happiness by throwing away his pipe. In one 
instance of foreshadowing in this novel, a character carves himself a coffin before recovering of a deadly 
illness. The greed of one character in this novel is represented by the gold doubloon he nails to the mast of 
a ship as a prize. The protagonist of this novel meets Starbuck and Queequeg aboard the  
Pequod, 
 which is 
captained by the monomaniacal Captain Ahab in, for 10 points, what novel by Herman Melville? 
ANSWER:  
Moby Dick 
019-10-18-08120 
5. In the wake of this battle, a pursuing group of victors were ambushed and killed near an area known as 
The Malfosse. One side's troops consisted of a select number of Huscarls, or professional soldiers, while 
the majority of their forces were peasantry called Fyrd. That side attempted to form a shield wall to hold off 
the enemy's cavalry, but those forces, loyal to Harold Godwinson, were defeated by the Norman invaders 
under William the Conqueror. For 10 points, name this 1066 battle fought in Britain. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Hastings 
040-10-18-08121 
6. This man attempted to cast doubt on the guilt of Wayne Williams in the Atlanta child murder case in his 
work  
The Evidence of Things Not Seen 
. His essays \"Down at the Cross\" and \"My Dungeon Shook\" make 
up the book  
The Fire Next Time 
. This man also wrote a novel set in part at Harlem's Temple of the Fire 
Baptized in which John Grimes experiences a religious conversion on his fourteenth birthday. For 10 
points, name this African-American author of  
Go Tell it on the Mountain 
. 
ANSWER: James  
Baldwin 
030-10-18-08122 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  6 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. One disease caused by the lack of one of these compounds comes in wet and dry forms. The autoimmune 
deficiency of one of these compounds is called pernicious anemia. Pregnant women take supplements 
containing the ninth of these compounds, which is called folic acid. For 10 points, name this class of 
compounds that includes niacin and thiamine, a class of vitamins. 
ANSWER:   vitamins [prompt on  
B vitamin 
s; or  
B complex 
 vitamins] 
026-10-18-08123 
8. This author wrote about a \"bee among the heather bells\" in a poem in which a \"dweller in the land of 
death\" is described is \"changed and careless too.\" That poem is \"My Lady's Grave,\" which she wrote under 
the pseudonym Ellis Bell. She is better known for a novel, partially narrated by Nelly Dean, which features 
such families as the Lintons and the Earnshaws and also includes the foundling Heathcliff. For 10 points, 
name this author of  
Wuthering Heights 
, the sister of Anne and Charlotte. 
ANSWER:  mily  
E Brontë 
 [prompt on \"Brontë\"] 
040-10-18-08124 
9. At very high pressure, such as below impact craters, this mineral can metamorphose into coesite 
(KO-uh-zite). Evidence of the K-T boundary was provided by a layer of the amorphous \"shocked\" type of 
this mineral. Together with various types of feldspar, this mineral comprises the major ingredient of 
granite. Its piezoelectric (pee-AY-zo-\"electric\") properties make it allows its use in crystal oscillators. For 
10 points, name this mineral made up of silicon dioxide, which has a hardness of seven on the Mohs scale. 
ANSWER:  
quartz 
 [before \"silicon,\" accept  
silicon dioxide 
; or  
silica 
; or  
SiO 
2 
] 
026-10-18-08125 
10. Sugar Island is located in a lake in this state that is drained by the Kennebec River; that body of water is 
Moosehead Lake. One peak in this state is Sugarloaf Mountain; another peak in this state, located in Baxter 
State Park, is Mount Katahdin. It also contains the delta of the Penobscot River, along whose banks lies the 
city of Bangor. With a capital at Augusta, for 10 points, name this state located in the extreme northeast of 
the continental U.S.. 
ANSWER:  
Maine 
040-10-18-08126 
11. One way to write this language was invented by women, who were not permitted to use the existing 
syllabary. Another form of writing for this language is used chiefly for proper names and foreign words. 
The last of its three major writing systems uses characters borrowed from Confucian classics. For 10 
points, hiragana (HEAR-ah-GAH-nah), katakana (KAH-tah-KA-nah), and kanji (KAHN-jee) are the chief 
writing systems of what language, which is spoken in Osaka and Tokyo? 
ANSWER:  
Japanese 
 [or  
Nihongo 
] 
019-10-18-08127 
12. In 2008, one anchor for this network attracted controversy by referring to China as \"goons and thugs.\" 
In addition to Jack Cafferty, its hosts at that time included the founder of space.com who once accused 
immigrants of having leprosy, Lou Dobbs. More recently, this network fired the man who coined the term 
\"tea party\" after he accused another channel's star, Jon Stewart, of being part of a Jewish media conspiracy. 
For 10 points, name this former home of Rick Sanchez, where one can still find Wolf Blitzer and other 
Atlanta-based news hosts. 
ANSWER:  
CNN 
019-10-18-08128 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  7 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. Derek Parfit’s \"repugnant conclusion\" argues against this school of thought by showing that it implies 
the need to populate the earth with as many humans as physically possible. One of the originators of this 
philosophy explained it using the “felicific calculus” in  
An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and 
Legislation. 
 It was later expanded upon in a namesake book of John Stuart Mill. For 10 points, name this 
school of thought whose originator, Jeremy Bentham, explained it as advocating \"the greatest good for the 
greatest number.\" 
ANSWER:  
utilitarianism 
019-10-18-08129 
14. The title character of this work entertains the idea of deceiving Andrew Hale into lending him money to 
flee his home. One character claims that a ribbon in her hair is a \"tribute to the unusual\" at a dinner in 
which a pickle dish is broken. At the end of this novel, which takes place in Starkfield, it is revealed that 
the title character's wife Zeena has been caring for him and Mattie Silver ever since their sledding accident 
twenty-four years earlier. For 10 points, name this novel about the title Massachusetts farmer by Edith 
Wharton. 
ANSWER:  
Ethan Frome 
030-10-18-08130 
15. This man called the Second Council of Constantinople in order to resolve the Monophysite 
Controversy. One of this ruler's reform efforts was overseen by Tribonian.  
The Secret History of Procopius 
is an account of this man's reign. This ruler was opposed by the Blues and Greens in one rebellion. That 
revolt, the Nika Riot, was suppressed by this man's general Belisarius. For 10 points, name this husband of 
Theodora, a Byzantine emperor who oversaw the creation of his namesake legal code. 
ANSWER:  
Justinian 
 I 
030-10-18-08131 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  8 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 8 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. One painting by this name depicts Christ in the clouds at the upper center while the left side shows, in 
progression, the expulsion of the Angels, the creation of Eve, and the tasting of the forbidden fruit. In 
addition to naming that Hieronymus Bosch triptych, this name graces a painting that depicts the Flatford 
Mill and a brown and white dog. That painting is named after a horse-drawn conveyance that is travelling 
in the River Stour. For 10 points, name this painting by John Constable. 
ANSWER:  
The  Hay Wain 
040-10-18-08132 
2. This state was first reached by a European by the French explorer Jean Nicolet. A Democratic senator 
from this stated worked on a bipartisan bill that reformed campaign finance along with John McCain. That 
senator from this state was Russ Feingold. This state's namesake \"idea\" of being a laboratory for 
progressive legislation was championed by Senator Robert La Follette. For 10 points, name this state that 
was the home of Joseph McCarthy and has a capital at Madison. 
ANSWER:  
Wisconsin 
030-10-18-08133 
3. In one poem, this author recalled throwing potato salad at a Dadaism expert with his friend Carl 
Solomon, to whom he dedicated the poem. This author wrote of walking with Walt Whitman down the 
aisles of a grocery store and through the darkened streets in his poem \"A Supermarket in California.\" For 
10 points, name this American poet who \"saw the best minds of [his] generation destroyed by madness\" at 
the beginning of his long poem  
Howl 
, which exemplified the Beat movement. 
ANSWER: Irwin Allen  
Ginsberg 
026-10-18-08134 
4. This deity was caught in a compromising position with another deity's wife when he became trapped in 
an invisible net. In another story, he was trapped in a bronze urn for a very long duration by two giants 
named Otus and Ephialtes. The Stymphalian Birds were associated with this god who, with his lover 
Aphrodite, sired the children Deimos and Phobos, who often accompanied him into combat. The god of 
battle and war, for 10 points, name this Greek deity, whose Roman counterpart was Mars. 
ANSWER:  
Ares 
040-10-18-08135 
5. The correct form of this law includes a term proportional to the time derivative of the electric flux, 
known as the displacement current, that was added to this law by James Maxwell. The coefficient of 
proportionality in this law is known as the permeability of free space. If the current density is not constant, 
this law does not hold and must be replaced by the Biot-Savart (BEE-oh suh-VAR) Law. For 10 points, 
name this equation that states that the path integral of the magnetic field is proportional to the current 
enclosed by the path, which is the only one of Maxwell’s Equations named after a French physicist. 
ANSWER:  
Ampère 
’s Law 
003-10-18-08136 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 8     Page  9 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
