VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 2 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This city was evacuated by William Berkeley when it was attacked and then burned to the ground during 
Bacon's Rebellion. This settlement was started by colonists carried by three ships under Christopher 
Newport. One settler in this colony developed a new form of tobacco and was named John Rolfe. This 
settlement went through a Starving Time before relations with the Powhatan improved. For 10 points, name 
this colony that was home for a time to Pocahontas and John Smith and served as the first permanent 
English settlement in North America. 
ANSWER:  
Jamestown 
 Settlement [or  
Jamestown 
 Colony] 
023-10-18-02101 
2. A constant named for these substances appears in the Henderson-Hasselbalch (HOSS-el-bock) equation. 
That constant, their namesake \"dissociation constant,\" measures their strength in solution. Lewis defined 
them as electron pair acceptors, while Bronsted and Lowry defined them as proton donors, contrasting them 
with proton receivers, or bases. For 10 points, name these substances which have a pH of less than seven. 
ANSWER:  
acid 
s 
024-10-18-02102 
3. This author wrote about the golf caddy Dexter Green’s unrequited love for Judy Jones in “Winter 
Dreams.” He wrote of Charlie Wales’s separation from his daughter Honoria as he is haunted by his past 
excesses in “Babylon Revisited.” He wrote about the Princeton student Amory Blaine in his debut novel  
This Side of Paradise 
, and partially based the character of Daisy Buchanan in another novel on his own 
wife Zelda. For 10 points, name this author who included Nick Carraway as the narrator of  
The Great 
Gatsby 
. 
ANSWER: Francis Scott Key  
Fitzgerald 
015-10-18-02103 
4. In one story, the cloud nymph Nephele is created in the form of this goddess in order to trick Ixion. She 
blinds Tiresias after he disagrees with her side of an argument. She curses Echo to a life of repeating the 
words of others, and forces Leto to give birth on the floating island of Delos. She employs the 
hundred-eyed giant Argus as a watchman and sends a gadfly to pursue Io around the world. She is often 
depicted jealously punishing her husband’s love interests. For 10 points, name this wife of Zeus in Greek 
mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Hera 
 [or  
Juno 
] 
015-10-18-02104 
5. Algorithms for completing this process include AES and DES, both of which use block cipher 
algorithms. The asymmetric type of this process creates two components, on private and the other public, to 
do this action.Output from machines that did this process made up the British ULTRA. One of those 
machines was the Enigma machine. For 10 points, name this operation that uses keys to modify 
information into unreadable and readable forms through the use of ciphers. 
ANSWER:  
encryption 
 [or  
cryptography 
] 
023-10-18-02105 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  1 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. Like capacitors, when these objects are placed in parallel, their effective namesake constant becomes 
equal to the addition of the two individual values of those constants. The angular frequency of a weight 
connected to one of these objects is given by taking the square root of that constant over the mass. That 
constant for these objects also shows up in a law that relates the displacement of an object to the restoring 
force. For 10 points, Hooke's Law problems are often given in the context of a mass on one of what elastic 
objects? 
ANSWER:  
spring 
s [prompt on simple harmonic  
oscillator 
s] 
023-10-18-02106 
7. This state’s colonial governor William Stone was defeated by a puritan army at the Battle of the Severn 
after a period of instability called “the plundering time.” This state was the site of the Battle of 
Bladensburg, and in another War of 1812 action, forces under George Armistead withstood a 25 hour 
bombardment at its Fort McHenry. During the Civil War, a battle in this state was the bloodiest single-day 
battle in American history. For 10 points, name this state which was first colonized by Cecilius Calvert, the 
2nd Baron Baltimore. 
ANSWER:  
Maryland 
015-10-18-02107 
8. The red-haired woman depicted in this painting also appears in its artist’s work  
Summertime 
 and was 
modeled on the artist’s wife Jo. This painting contains an advertisement for Phillies cigars and depicts 
seven stools, one of which is occupied by a man in a fedora with his back towards the viewer. Supposedly 
based on a restaurant in Greenwich Village, it also shows a worker in white looking up at a couple sitting at 
the bar. For 10 points, name this Edward Hopper painting depicting three customers and a worker at a 
late-night diner. 
ANSWER:  
Nighthawks 
 [do not accept “The Nighthawks”] 
083-10-18-02108 
9. This man led a failed coup against former President Carlos Perez in his early career. In 2005, he 
criminalized libel against government officials; in 2009, he had his country’s constitution amended to 
eliminate term limits. In 2005, he announced a program to provide cheap heating fuel to poor U.S. citizens. 
In a 2006 speech at the United Nations, he referred to the President Bush as the devil. For 10 points, name 
this president of Venezuela. 
ANSWER: Hugo Rafael  
Chavez 
 Frias 
064-10-18-02109 
10. Born in Isreal, his Hebrew name is Chiam Witz. He immigrated to Jackson Heights in Queens, New 
York at the age of eight and took the name of a \"jumpin'\" rockabilly musician as his stage name. He helped 
found the band Wicked Lester in the early seventies before donning black and white Kabuki-style makeup 
and playing bass for one of the most popular bands of that decade. For 10 points, name this fire-breathing 
performer, the bassist for the rock group KISS and the patriarch on his own \"Family Jewels\" reality series? 
ANSWER: Gene  
Simmons 
045-10-18-02110 
11. According to many economists, a factor in controlling inflation is avoiding attempts to drop this other 
quantity below its \"natural\" level. Its types include \"frictional,\" \"cyclical,\" and \"structural.\" The Phillips 
Curve posits an inverse correlation between this quantity and inflation, which was discredited by the 
\"stagflation\" phenomenon of the 1970s. As of August 2010, it stood at 9.5 percent in the U.S. For 10 
points, give this term for the percentage of adults who are able and willing to work but do not have jobs. 
ANSWER:  
unemployment 
 rate 
019-10-18-02111 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  2 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This philosopher argued complex ideas, such as modes, substances, and relations, are created by 
combining, comparing, or abstracting simple ideas. He claimed people have the natural right to objects they 
mix their labor with in his book outlining a theory of government's based on the protection of private 
property, his  
Second Treatise on Government 
. He distinguished between the primary and secondary 
qualities of objects in his  
Essay Concerning Human Understanding 
. For 10 points, name this British 
philosopher who argued that the mind was a tabula rasa, or blank slate. 
ANSWER: John  
Locke 
004-10-18-02112 
13. This man presided over Robert Bork’s confirmation hearing as chairman of the Senate Judiciary 
Committee, a post he held from 1987 to 1995. He currently serves as the head of the Middle Class Working 
Families Task Force. In 2008, this man erroneously claimed that FDR appeared on television at the outset 
of the Great Depression. For 10 points, name this former Delaware senator and current Vice President. 
ANSWER: Joe  
Biden 
080-10-18-02113 
14. Sanderson developed the principle of the equalization of this quantity. Allred and Rochow developed a 
scale for it, as did Robert Mulliken. Like the two measures that average to form this quantity via the 
Mulliken scale, it increases from left to right on the periodic table and decreases from top to bottom. The 
most commonly used scale, developed by Linus Pauling, assigns fluorine a value of four. For 10 points, 
name this measure of an atom's ability to attract electrons. 
ANSWER:  
electronegativity 
024-10-18-02114 
15. He was forced to wear women’s clothing while working for the Lydian queen Omphale. He 
accidentally killed his music teacher Linus, and killed his wife Megara in a fit of madness. He killed the 
giant Antaeus by lifting him off the ground. He scared away the Stymphalian birds and killed the Nemean 
Lion with his club. This figure rerouted some rivers to clean the Augean Stables as part of a series of tasks 
completed for Eurystheus. For 10 points, name this demigod son of Zeus known for his twelve labors. 
ANSWER:  
Hercules 
 [or  
Heracles 
] 
015-10-18-02115 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  3 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 2 
Directed Round 
1A.  What is the name of the geometrical device that can be used to plot genotypes of parents to figure out 
the probable outcome of an offspring's genotype? 
ANSWER:  
Punnet 
 square 
1B.  What numbers like pi and e are not algebraic, meaning they are not the roots of any polynomial with 
rational coefficients? 
ANSWER:  
transcendental 
 numbers 
2A.  Name the desert in southern Africa that covers most of Botswana and was crossed by David 
Livingstone. 
ANSWER:  
Kalahari 
 Desert 
2B.  People with standard mental health may become depressed during certain parts of the year if they 
suffer from what temporally named disorder? 
ANSWER:  
seasonal affective disorder 
 [prompt on  
winter depression 
; prompt on  
winter blues 
] 
3A.  What lake is connected to Lake Huron by the Straits of Mackinac (MAK-uh-naw) and also borders 
Chicago? 
ANSWER: Lake  
Michigan 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the value of z in 4z+3=15? 
ANSWER: z =  
3 
4A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the mode of the list of numbers {2, 3, 8, 2, 8, 8, 2, 4, 
2}? 
ANSWER:  
2 
4B.  Name the work of fiction set in Macondo that depicts the Buendía family and was written by Gabriel 
García Márquez. 
ANSWER:  
One Hundred Years of Solitude 
 [or  
Cien Años de Soledad 
] 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. For what values of x is the polynomial x  + 2x - 8 equal to 0? 
2 
ANSWER: x =   and x =  
-4 2 
5B. This is a 20-second calculation question. If the probability of picking a blue coin is one third and the 
probability of picking a red coin is one half, what is the probability of picking a coin that is not blue or red? 
ANSWER:  
1/6 
 (one sixth) 
6A.  What television show based on a British show created by Ricky Gervais stars Steve Carell as Michael 
Scott, an employee at Dunder Mifflin? 
ANSWER:  
The  Office 
6B.  Name the father of Esau and Jacob who was almost sacrificed when God tested the will of his father 
Abraham. 
ANSWER:  
Isaac 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the perimeter of a square whose diagonal is the 
square root of two? 
ANSWER:  
4 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the rectangular coordinate 1,1 in polar coordinates 
with theta expressed in degrees? 
ANSWER: r =  
square root 2 
 theta =  
45 
 degrees 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  4 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8A.  Name the English monarch who had Mary, Queen of Scots, executed and succeeded her half sister 
Mary I to the throne. 
ANSWER:  
Elizabeth I 
 of England [prompt on  
Elizabeth 
] 
8B.  What is the German phrase that idiomatically means \"goodbye,\" and more literally translates to \"until 
we see each other again\"? 
ANSWER: \" 
Auf Wiedersehen 
\" 
9A. \"Neptune, the Mystic\" is a movement of what orchestral suite by Gustav Holst? 
ANSWER: the  
Planets 
9B.  What NFL quarterback played for the Philadelphia Eagles for ten years before being traded to the 
Washington Redskins in 2009? 
ANSWER: Donovan  
McNabb 
10A.  What planet has the largest canyon in the solar system in Valles Marineris and the tallest volcano in 
the solar system with Olympus Mons? 
ANSWER:  
Mars 
10B.  What figure of speech uses a part to represent the whole, such as using wheels to represent a car? 
ANSWER:  
synecdoche 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  5 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 2 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A snub of Hiram Johnson, the holder of this office in 1916, may have cost Charles Evans Hughes that 
year's election. After losing to incumbent Pat Brown in the 1962 election for this office, one man declared 
that \"you won't have Nixon to kick around anymore.\" Brown was defeated four years later by Ronald 
Reagan, who promised that in this office he would \"clean up the mess at Berkeley.\" For 10 points, name 
this office held by Gray Davis until a 2003 election recalled him and replaced him with Arnold 
Schwarzenegger. 
ANSWER:  
governor 
 of  
California 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
003-10-18-02117 
2. A series of two transesterification reactions removes unwanted parts of this molecule via the 
spliceosome. This molecule can be monocistronic or polycistronic. 7-methyl-guanosine is added to the five 
prime end of this molecule, and a poly-A tail to the three prime end, after this molecule is created in 
transcription. This molecule's codons contain uracil instead of the thymine found in DNA. For 10 points, 
name this type of RNA that is transported to the ribosome in order to make proteins. 
ANSWER:  
messenger RNA 
 [or  
mRNA 
; accept  
messenger 
 RNA or  RNA after \"RNA\"] 
m 
003-10-18-02118 
3. In some bacterias, this process is carried out in molecules containing retinal similar to rhodopsin 
(\"row\"-DOP-sin). This process takes place in the mesophyll, the first part in the thylakoids and the second 
part in the stroma. That second part of this process involves the creation of a glucose molecule during the 
light-independent reaction, which includes the Calvin cycle. For 10 points, name this process by which 
plants convert light energy into chemical energy using chlorophyll in chloroplasts. 
ANSWER:  
photosynthesis 
023-10-18-02119 
4. This man acted as an advisor to the Minister of War Diego Hidalgo. He first gained fame as a general 
during the Rif War of 1920. This man consolidated the Carlists with a party founded by José Antonio 
Primo de Rivera, the Falange (fah-LON-hay). This leader suppressed minority languages such as Catalan 
and Basque after taking power in his country's civil war. This man was in power from 1939 until his 1975 
death, after which power went back to a monarchy under Juan Carlos I. For 10 points, name this military 
dictator of Spain. 
ANSWER: Francisco Paulino Hermenegildo Teódulo  
Franco 
 Bahamonde 
024-10-18-02120 
5. George Meredith’s bitter collection  
Modern Love 
 is composed of works in a modified form of this style. 
Edmund Spenser’s  
Amoretti 
 is composed of eighty-nine of these, and Elizabeth Barrett Browning wrote a 
collection of them “from the Portuguese.” Works in the English variety of this form can be divided into 
three quatrains and a couplet, and the Petrarchan type is divided into an octave and a sestet. For 10 points, 
name these fourteen-line poems. 
ANSWER:  
sonnet 
s 
015-10-18-02121 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  6 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. Apocryphally, this man’s gravestone featured a cylinder that was two-thirds the volume of the sphere in 
which it was inscribed; that relation was something this man had proven. His namesake claw may have 
been used in war, but it is unlikely that his heat ray ever existed. Also the inventor of a screw for 
transporting water, this man determined what metal a crown was made of by applying the buoyancy 
principle in his bathtub to determine the crown’s density. For 10 points, name this ancient Greek who ran 
around naked shouting “Eureka!” after that discovery. 
ANSWER:  
Archimedes 
 of Syracuse 
079-10-18-02122 
7. In one work by this poet, the narrator describes being an \"inebriate of air\" and a \"debauchee of dew\" 
because they \"taste a liquor never brewed.\" Another poem by this writer describes a \"blue, uncertain, 
stumbling\" sound that occurred at the title moment in \"I heard a fly buzz when I died.\" This poet also wrote 
a poem about horses whose \"heads were toward eternity\" during a carriage ride with Immortality and 
another figure. For 10 points, name this writer of \"Because I could not stop for Death,\" a reclusive and 
prolific female poet who lived in Massachusetts. 
ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth  
Dickinson 
023-10-18-02123 
8. A minor character in this play can be summoned by a bell that does not always work, and does not have 
eyelids. Near the end, a woman who drowned her illegitimate child attempts to stab another woman in the 
Second Empire-style room in which the entire play takes place. For 10 points, Estelle and Ines are 
characters in which existentialist play in which Joseph Garcin claims “Hell is other people,” by Jean-Paul 
Sartre? 
ANSWER:  
No Exit 
 [or  
Huis Clos 
] 
082-10-18-02124 
9. The first generation of leptons consists of these particles and their respective neutrinos. The transitioning 
of these particles is the basis for the Balmer series. The positron is the anti-particle of this particle, which 
emits a photon when it drops in energy level. Robert Millikan determined their charge in the oil-drop 
experiment. They were first discovered by J.J. Thomson and were the only particle in his \"plum pudding\" 
model. For 10 points, name this negatively charged particle that orbits an atom’s nucleus. 
ANSWER:  
electron 
064-10-18-02125 
10. This artist created a painting in which swans on a pond have reflections that look like elephants. This 
artist symbolically depicted the horrors of the Spanish Civil War in his painting  
Soft Construction with 
Boiled Beans 
, and collaborated with Luis Buñuel on the film  
Un Chien andalou 
. In another of his paintings, 
ants cover one of several melting clocks. For 10 points, name this Spanish surrealist painter of  
The 
Persistence of Memory 
. 
ANSWER: Salvador Felipe Jacinto  
Dalí 
 y Domenech 
001-10-18-02126 
11. This man wrote about a creature that “launch’d forth filament, filament, filament” in a poem about a 
“noiseless patient spider.” He wrote “Flood-tide below me! I see you face to face!” in his “Crossing 
Brooklyn Ferry.” He published a “deathbed edition” of his continually revised masterpiece, which includes 
a poem beginning “I celebrate myself, and sing myself.” For 10 points, name this American poet who 
included “Song of Myself” in his  
Leaves of Grass 
. 
ANSWER: Walt  
Whitman 
015-10-18-02127 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  7 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This country organized a response to a plane hijacking called Operation Thunderbolt that successfully 
released hostages in the Entebbe Raid. Another reaction by this country came in the Operation Wrath of 
God, which was a response to Black September's actions at the Munich Olympics. This country launched a 
highly successful attack in the Six-Day War and was itself attacked in the Yom Kippur War. For 10 points, 
name this country in the Middle East that was created in 1948 and has been led by David Ben-Gurion and 
Golda Meir as a Jewish state. 
ANSWER: State of  
Israel 
 [or Medinat  
Yisra'el 
] 
023-10-18-02128 
13. This author wrote about a violence-obsessed train driver named Jacques Lantier in the novel  
The 
Human Beast 
. That novel is part of a twenty-novel cycle detailing the life of the Rougon-Macquart family, 
which also includes the novels  
Nana 
 and  
Germinal 
. He also wrote an open letter accusing the French 
government of anti-Semitism for imprisoning Alfred Dreyfus. For 10 points, name this French naturalist 
author of \"J'accuse.\" 
ANSWER: Emile  
Zola 
024-10-18-02129 
14. This author of the mystical  
A Vision 
 wrote about “the foul rag and bone shop of the heart” in his late 
poem “The Circus Animals’ Desertion” and lamented that “a terrible beauty is born” in a poem about the 
failed Easter Rising, “Easter, 1916.” He also wrote a poem involving a “rough beast / Slouching toward 
Bethlehem to be born” and one which states “This is no country for old men.” For 10 points, name this 
Irish poet of “The Second Coming” and “Sailing To Byzantium.” 
ANSWER: William Butler  
Yeats 
082-10-18-02130 
15. This ruler set up a system of authority and law in his namesake Capitulary. A biography of this ruler 
was written by Einhard. This ruler originally split lands with his brother Carloman after the death of his 
father, Pepin the Short. This man was unexpectedly crowned while kneeling to pray in St. Peter's Basilica 
on Christmas by Pope Leo III, becoming by that action \"Emperor of the Romans\" in the year 800. For 10 
points, name this grandson of Charles Martel and Carolingian ruler who greatly expanded the Frankish 
empire. 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
 [or  
Charles I 
; or  
Charles the Great 
; or  
Charles le Grand 
; or  
Karl der Grosse 
; or  
Carolus Magnus 
; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
023-10-18-02131 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  8 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 2 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This author wrote of a place \"Where the flying fishes play, and the dawn comes up like thunder out of 
China 'cross the bay.\" Another poem notes that the qualifications for manhood include to \"dream –and not 
make dreams your master\" and to \"talk with crowds and keep [one's] virtue.\" The ending of another poems 
tells the \"finest man\" the narrator knew that, \"You're a better man than I am.\" For 10 points, name this 
author of \"Mandalay,\" \"If,\" and \"Gunga Din,\" who created the characters of Akela, Bagheera, and Mowgli 
in  
The Jungle Book 
. 
ANSWER: Rudyard  
Kipling 
003-10-18-02132 
2. These species are formed from carbon in an intermediate step of E1 and SN1 reactions. Type A of these 
species can be formed from alkali and alkaline earth metals. These species are created at the anode in an 
electrochemical cell, and are most easily formed from elements with low ionization energies. These species 
have an oxidation number equal to their positive charge. For 10 points, name these species that bind to 
anions in ionic solutions, and which are positively charged ions. 
ANSWER:  
cation 
s [prompt on  
ion 
s; accept  
carbocation 
s before \"Type A\"; prompt on  
positively charged 
ion 
s or equivalents] 
003-10-18-02133 
3. The monk Nennius described this man’s twelve battles, inspiring Geoffrey of Monmouth, who 
popularized the exploits of this figure. This man is at the center of a series of twelve narrative poems by 
Alfred Tennyson,  
Idylls of the King 
. In a Mark Twain novel, he employs a resident of Connecticut named 
Hank Morgan. T. H. White is known for a four-part work about this man, whose “death” titles a work 
written in prison by Thomas Mallory. For 10 points, name this legendary king who possesses a round table. 
ANSWER: King  
Arthur 
015-10-18-02134 
4. This property stays constant after the CMC, or critical micelle concentration, is reached, which comes 
after a certain amount of surfactants have been added to a solution. Laplace's Law describes why this 
property is responsible for the nearly spherical form taken on by bubbles and drops of water. This property 
occurs due to certain molecules of a liquid not being surrounded by attractive charges, leading to stronger 
cohesion for those molecules. For 10 points, name this property of liquids that is responsible for the ability 
of water striders to move atop water. 
ANSWER:  
surface tension 
023-10-18-02135 
5. The title of this play was allegedly discovered in the bathroom of a New York City bar. One character in 
this play tells her husband, \"if you existed, I'd divorce you,\" and makes fun of his failed attempts at writing 
a novel and his inability to become the head of the history department. The other couple in this play 
married due to a \"hysterical pregnancy\" and chooses not to have children, unlike the older couple who 
merely pretends to have a son. For 10 points, name this Edward Albee play in which Martha responds, \"I 
am!\" to the title question. 
ANSWER:  
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
003-10-18-02136 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 2     Page  9 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
