NASAT 2012 
Round 8 
Tossups 
1. One member of this group used his walking stick to bless the chaaju, and another member of this group 
composed the Baburdani. That one expounded the repetitive chanting of the divine’s name, which is 
known as Naam Japna. Many banis, such as the Sukhmani, were compiled by the fifth member of this 
group, called Arjan Dev. Another member of this group created the Khalsa, which is formed by all people 
who obey the five Ks. The last person in this group was Gobind Singh who placed the Adi Granth in this 
group. For 10 points, name this group, including Nanak, who served as the leaders of Sikhism. 
ANSWER: Sikh  
Guru 
 [or  
guru 
s of  
Sikhism 
; prompt on  
sikhs 
] 
149-12-59-08102 
2. One thinker from this country developed three criteria for monetary equilibrium and predicted aggregate 
demand and prices would increase through a “cumulative process” when the natural and market rates of 
interest were different. Besides Wicksell, economists from this country include two who developed a 
theorem stating more capital abundant countries will export more capital intensive goods, the 
Heckscher-Ohlin theorem. Another man from here described the central “creed” that held people together 
in a work on race relations in the United States,  
An American Dilemma. 
 For 10 points, name this country, 
the home of Gunnar Myrdal. 
ANSWER:  
Sweden 
121-12-59-08103 
3. In one of this author's stories, a waitress who miscarries sends her child's ashes to each of her four past 
lovers because she believes that they are the title divine substance. The same collection, which includes 
\"God's Bones,\" ends with the \"gleanings\" from his most famous novel, which contains glorious descriptions 
of the radiant Milky Way over a town and the beauty of Chijimi linens bleaching in the sun. A traveler is 
entranced by a female performer and dismayed to find out that she is underaged in this author's \"The Izu 
Dancer.\" In his most famous work, a married man falls in love with Yoko while carrying on an affair with 
the geisha Komako in a hot springs town. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Shimamura in  
Snow Country. 
ANSWER: Yasunari  
Kawabata 
020-12-59-08104 
4. This ruler established the Order of Saint Michael to combat his enemy's Order of the Golden Fleece. 
Like his father, this ruler commanded troops known as  
ecorcheurs 
. When he was seventeen, he joined the 
Praguerie, a revolt against his father. He paid off his cousin Edward IV in the Treaty of Picquigny, and he 
also kept Edward IV off the throne during the Wars of the Roses by brokering an alliance between the Earl 
of Warwick and Margaret of Anjou. Francis II of Brittany led the League of the Public Weal in opposition 
to this son of Charles VII. His greatest enemy, Charles the Bold, was killed at the Battle of Nancy. For 10 
points, name this French king whose nickname alludes to his scheming. 
ANSWER:  
Louis XI 
 [or Louis the Universal  
Spider 
; prompt on  
Louis 
] 
079-12-59-08105 
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  1 of 12 
5. Some of the harmonies used in this piece were so bold that its composer quipped that \"I shall be told to 
take a Conservatory class for these.\" One theme in this piece was cannibalized from a never-completed 
opera based on Gustave Flaubert's  
Salammbo 
. This work initially went unperformed due to its composer 
refusing to implement changes suggested by Balakirev. Stokowski's 1940 arrangement of this piece 
eliminated a fanfare marking the entrance of Chernobog. A setting of a Gogol short story, this piece depicts 
an event on St. John's Day, despite its appearance in  
Fantasia 
 connecting it to Halloween. For 10 points, 
name this piece depicting a witch's sabbath near Kiev, a piece by Mussorgsky. 
ANSWER:  
St. John's  Night on Bald Mountain 
 [or  
St. John's  Night on the Bare Mountain 
; or  
Noch' na 
lïsoy gore 
] 
020-12-59-08106 
6. In addition to having a closed degenerate 2-form, symplectic manifolds have this property. Lie groups 
can also be understood as these types of manifolds. If a complex function has this property, its closed line 
integral will be zero. Meromorphic functions have this property at all but a set of isolated poles on the 
complex plane, and entire functions have this property for all values of the complex plane. The Weierstrass 
function does not have this property at any point, despite being continuous everywhere. The mean value 
theorem holds for functions with it on open intervals. This property does not hold for functions with 
singularities or cusps. For 10 points, name this property of functions whose tangent lines are not vertical. 
ANSWER:  
differentiable 
 [or obvious equivalents like “functions for which the derivative exists”] 
121-12-59-08107 
7. One of the opposition parties in this country is called Politics Can Be Different. In 2006, this country's 
former prime minister was caught on tape stating, \"We lied in the morning, we lied in the evening,\" 
regarding this nation's economy. In February 2012, this nation's airline Malev ceased operations. Robert 
Alfodi, director of this country's national theater, has been targeted by the far-right Jobbik Party. This 
country has been criticized for the authoritarian tendencies of the Fidesz Party and Prime Minister Viktor 
Orban. For 10 points, name this country which adopted a new constitution in January 2012, 95 years after 
ending its union with Austria. 
ANSWER:  
Hungary 
030-12-59-08108 
8. Much of this novel is set in Merripit House, where the antagonist ties his wife to the bedpost after 
pretending to be her brother. Its action begins when the doctor Mortimer brings news of the central death 
and the theft of a boot. One of its characters holds a candle in the window as a signal that food has been left 
for the escaped convict Selden, who dies after being chased by the title character. After learning that the 
school teacher Vandeleur has disguised himself as Stapleton, the protagonist of this novel summons 
Detective Inspector Lestrade. Stapleton uses phosphorus to reinforce fears of an old family curse, which 
prompts Sir Charles to die of a heart attack in Dartmoor. For 10 points, name this Arthur Conan Doyle 
novel in which Sherlock Holmes encounters a scary dog. 
ANSWER:  
The  Hound of the Baskervilles 
015-12-59-08109 
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  2 of 12 
9. One reaction of this type produces the side products carbonyl sulfide and methanethiol after the 
formation of a xanthate intermediate. In another reaction of this type, an amine is oxidized by mCPBA in a 
5-membered cyclic transition state. A more common reaction of this type differs from its counterpart 
because it does not have a carbocation intermediate and proceeds faster with an antiperiplanar 
configuration. Primary and secondary alkyl halides participate in that reaction of this type, and tertiary 
alkyl halides participate in its counterpart. According to Zaitsev's rule, these alkene-producing reactions 
will form more of the more stable alkene. Chugaev, Cope, E1, and E2 are types of, for 10 points, what 
reactions in which two substituents are removed from a molecule? 
ANSWER:  
elimination 
s 
079-12-59-08110 
10. Two answers required. A leader of one of these cities ordered the creation of the Megalopolis to defend 
against the other. One battle between these cities was sparked by the seizure of a sanctuary of Zeus at Elis 
by the Arcadians. In a battle between these two cities, one side made use of the \"oblique order\" formation. 
One king of this city sent Cleombrotus to attack the other after the other's leader was not permitted to sign a 
peace on behalf of all of Boeotia. That leader, Epaminondas, was killed at the last battle between them. 
Pelopidas led the Sacred Band of one of them against the other in battles for Greek hegemony after the 
Peloponnesian War. For 10 points, name these two Greek city-states that clashed at Mantinea and Leuctra. 
ANSWER:  
Thebes 
 and  
Sparta 
079-12-59-08111 
11. The San Telmo district is the oldest neighborhood in this city, the site of the first settlement by Pedro de 
Mendoza. The Monserrat district houses many government buildings here, including the Pink House, its 
country's official executive mansion. The Pink House is located on its Plaza de Mayo, where 1945 
demonstrations were held to protest the imprisonment of the Minister of Labor. This city was the capital of 
the last Spanish viceroyalty in the New World and the site of the May Revolution, which began the Latin 
American wars of independence. That aforementioned viceroyalty shares its name with the river that this 
city is at the mouth of, the Río de la Plata. For 10 points, name this capital of Argentina. 
ANSWER:  
Buenos Aires 
121-12-59-08112 
12. A statue of this god was carried on a barque during the Opet Festival. The oracle at the Siwah Oasis 
told Alexander the Great that his father was this god. Because the Romans identified Jupiter with this god, 
Iarbas is this god's son in the  
Aeneid 
. This consort of Mut and father of Khonsu was worshiped at the 
largest of the precincts of Karnak. This most important god of the Theban Triad was supposedly the father 
of Hatshepshut. This god, known as \"the hidden one,\" was depicted with a ram's horns. For 10 points, name 
this Egyptian deity, who was syncretized with Re to form the supreme god of Egypt. 
ANSWER:  
Amun 
 [or  
Hammon Amon-Re 
;  ; prompt on  
Re 
; do not accept \"Re-Aten\" or other syncretisms] 
080-12-59-08113 
13. One character created by his man disdains people who go for medical degrees instead of degrees in law 
and is stabbed to death after trying to free Frida. In another of his plays, several women hang up their coats 
and hats after a confrontation at revolver-point breaks out over a child's death in a fountain. This author 
wrote about four valets who are instructed by Count di Nolli to serve their master for eleven years in one 
play, in which a masquerade is the site of that master's fall from horseback. Madame Pace runs a brothel 
where the Step-Daughter works in one of his plays, in which a motley crew rehearses  
Mixing It Up. 
 For 10 
points, name this playwright who wrote about a madman believing himself to be an emperor in  
Henry IV, 
as well as  
Six Characters in Search of an Author. 
ANSWER: Luigi  
Pirandello 
020-12-59-08114 
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  3 of 12 
14. One leader of this country instituted high financial barriers to the registration of new political parties 
through SECOM parties and issued Decree 88A. Thomas Quiwonkpa led a failed coup in this country 
against a Krahn leader. William Tolbert was the last True Whig president of this country and was replaced 
by a man who was executed on television by Prince Johnson. The rigged 1985 election in this country was 
won by Samuel Doe, who was replaced by a man who gave Pat Robertson special mining rights in this 
country. That former leader of this country was sentenced to 50 years in prison in Sierra Leone for war 
crimes and crimes against humanity. For 10 points, name this country once led by Charles Taylor. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Liberia 
149-12-59-08115 
15. One character in this work gives orders for a trumpeter to watch the road from Seville from a tower, 
and then sings the aria “Ha! What a moment!” The first act ends with the chorus bidding farewell to warm 
sunlight, and the second act begins with a tenor singing an aria about the “spring days of life.” After 
singing an aria about the necessity of money, Rocco allows the title character to come and help him dig a 
grave for a man who was imprisoned by Don Pizarro. Marzelline falls in love with the title character, 
unaware that \"he\" is actually a woman in disguise, on a mission to save her husband Florestan. For 10 
points, name this work about Leonore, the only opera by Beethoven. 
ANSWER:  
Fidelio 
142-12-59-08116 
16. A simple example of these objects is the king post type, while the Howe and Pratt types differ only in 
the direction of the diagonal. A graphical method for analyzing these objects is the Maxwell-Cremona 
diagram. More commonly, these objects are analyzed in two or more parts using the method of sections, or 
by using the method of joints. These structures are characterized by passive revolute, or pin, joints; thus, 
unlike frames, analysis of these structures explicitly assumes a lack of moments. These structures consist of 
beams arranged to form triangles, which ensures they will not change shape when bearing a load. For 10 
points, name these commonly-analyzed structures from statics, which are often used to support roofs and a 
namesake type of bridge. 
ANSWER:  
truss 
es 
003-12-59-08117 
17. The subject of this work refused to sit for it, forcing the artist to have his son stand on a ladder and put 
the subject's uniform on. Paul Delaroche was commissioned to create a more historically accurate version 
of this work. The bottom left corner of this painting contains stones inscribed with the names \"Karolus 
Magnus\" and \"Hannibal.\" In the background, some soldiers are struggling to push a cannon along a path. 
The title character of this painting has a billowing orange cloak and points upward while \"calm on a fiery\" 
rearing horse in the St. Bernard Pass. For 10 points, name this Jacques-Louis David painting, in which the 
Emperor of the French goes over some mountains. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon Crossing the Alps 
 [or  
Napoleon Crossing the St. Bernard 
] 
080-12-59-08118 
18. At one point during this event, the home of prison reform activist Abigail Gibbons was attacked. 
During this event, volunteer troops were sent in from Fort Schuyler at Throgs Neck to restore order. 
Governor Horatio Seymour tried to stop it by telling a crowd that a certain law was unconstitutional. The 
Colored Orphan Asylum burned during this event, which did not affect the crime-filled Five Points 
neighborhood. It was keyed by a March law affecting all male citizens between ages 20 and 35, aside from 
those who could pay a $300 fee. For 10 points, name this July 1863 event that featured working-class 
whites assaulting blacks in protest of Civil War military policies, and which significantly damaged areas 
such as Broadway. 
ANSWER:  
New York 
 City  
Draft Riots 
 [or  
Draft Week 
; accept synonyms for \"riots\"] 
052-12-59-08119 
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  4 of 12 
19. One of this author's poems describes four girls who encounter a starfish, a shell, a \"horrible thing,\" and 
a \"smooth round stone\" before noting \"it's always ourselves we find in the sea.\" In another of his poems, he 
claims the addressee opens him \"petal by petal, as Spring opens...her first rose\" and concludes \"nobody, not 
even the rain, has such small hands.\" This poet of \"maggie and milly and molly and may\" and \"somewhere 
I have never travelled, gladly beyond\" described how \"someones married their everyones and laughed their 
cryings and did their dance\" in \"anyone lived in a pretty how town.\" For 10 points, name this poet known 
for eschewing grammar and punctuation. 
ANSWER: Edward Estlin  
Cummings 
080-12-59-08120 
20. Along with cholestasis and growth retardation, overabundance of this substance is characteristic of 
GRACILE syndrome. One syndrome in which this substance is inappropriately absorbed is treated with 
deferoxamine. Mutations in HFE or hepcidin cause an overload of this element, resulting in diabetes and 
cirrhosis. This element binds to the DMT1 transporter in the gut, and regulates gene expression by binding 
to its namesake response element, which is found in the tail of TF mRNA. This element is found alongside 
sulfur in a certain cluster in aconitase, and this metal is also found in a protein that contains a glutamic acid 
to valine mutation in sickle cell anemia patients. For 10 points, name this metal, which is found in the 
oxygen-binding site of hemoglobin. 
ANSWER:  
Iron 
048-12-59-08121 
21. This play's protagonist compares his treatment of his enemies to \"letting the cherry knock against their 
lips.\" That character later sings a song urging the addressee to \"let us prove, while we can, the sports of 
love,\" and disguises himself as the mountebank Scoto. A disinherited son named Bonario thwarts the title 
character's attempted rape of Celia, who is pimped out by her formerly jealous husband. In this play, 
Corvino, Corbaccio, and Voltore are all tricked by Mosca into bestowing gifts on the title Venetian, who 
pretends to be on his deathbed. For 10 points, name this Ben Jonson comedy about a man labeled \"the fox.\" 
ANSWER:  
Volpone 
064-12-59-08122 
22. The energies for the potential of one type of this system are equal to two times the number of loops of 
the wavefunction minus one. That wavefunction for one type of this system contains the terms one over the 
square root of two raised to the n times n factorial. The energy levels for that type of this system are related 
to n plus one-half times h-bar omega. The wavefunction for that system contains the Hermite polynomials 
and models a simple diatomic molecule. The square root of the spring constant over m is equal to the 
angular frequency of one type of this system. For 10 points, a displaced mass at the end of a massless 
spring is an example of the simple type of what system? 
ANSWER:  
harmonic oscillator 
 [or simple  
harmonic oscillator 
; or quantum  
harmonic oscillator 
] 
149-12-59-08123 
23. One story says the final leader of this government made his escape in a car showing the American flag. 
Its first foreign minister caused a stir by sending a telegram promising \"a convincing victory,\" which 
embarrassed the Kadet Party. This government was the supposed target of the Kornilov Coup. One story 
about its fall states that the cruiser  
Aurora 
 fired a shot, kicking off an attack on the Winter Palace. This 
government was first led by Prince Georgy Lvov and then Alexander Kerensky, who was overthrown in the 
October Revolution. For 10 points, name this government established in March 1917 after the abdication of 
Nicholas II and replaced later that year by the Bolsheviks. 
ANSWER:  
Provisional Government 
 of Russia [or  
Russian Republic 
; accept  
Lvov 
 government before 
read; accept  
Kerensky 
 government before read; prompt on  
Russia 
, do not accept \"Soviet Union\"] 
052-12-59-08124 
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2012 
Round 8 
Bonuses 
1. In one film, this man plays a factory worker who is fed by a malfunctioning machine before being eaten 
himself by an assembly of cogs and wheels. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this actor and director of silent films, who played the \"Little Tramp\" in works like  
Modern 
Times 
 and  
City Lights 
. 
ANSWER: Charlie  
Chaplin 
[10] Chaplin parodied Adolf Hitler as \"Adenoid Hynkel, ruler of Tomainia\" in this film, in which a lowly 
Jewish barber is mistaken for Hynkel and promoted to his position. 
ANSWER:  
The  Great Dictator 
[10] Charlie Chaplin's rival, Buster Keaton, directed this silent film based on the Great Locomotive Chase. 
In one of its shots, Johnnie Gray rides the side-rod of a moving locomotive after his rejection by Annabelle 
Lee. 
ANSWER:  
The  General 
080-12-59-08201  
2. This man’s brother was one of the founders of the Second City comedy troupe. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this thinker, a practitioner of “economic anthropology.” His works include  
Stone Age 
Economics 
 and he is also noted for postulating a theory that hunter-gatherers were the “original affluent 
society.” 
ANSWER: Marshall  
Sahlins 
[10] Sahlins identified three types of this process, the basis of non-market economies. A related form of it 
is the “gift economy,” which values informal exchanges between individuals and groups. 
ANSWER:  
reciprocity 
 [or  
barter 
; prompt on  
trade 
] 
[10] This gift-giving festival was popular among the Pacific Northwest tribes and involves the 
redistribution of tribal wealth. It was banned by Canada in 1884 because it was seen as wasteful, and it was 
studied by Franz Boas. 
ANSWER:  
potlatch 
052-12-59-08202  
3. Name these knights from Arthurian myth, for 10 points each. 
[10] This father of Galahad is most famous for betraying Arthur by sleeping with Guinevere, with 
disastrous consequences. 
ANSWER: Sir  
Lancelot 
 du Lac 
[10] This king of Listenoise broke the \"sword in the stone\" in a duel with King Arthur. He is also known 
for chasing the Questing Beast. 
ANSWER: King  
Pellinore 
[10] This former Muslim and Christian convert also chases the Questing Beast. He shares his name with the 
inventor of dice in Greek myth, who proved that Odysseus wasn't insane by placing Telemachus in front of 
his plow. 
ANSWER: Sir  
Palamedes 
080-12-59-08203  
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  6 of 12 
4. This man depicted a bunch of happy workers in  
Beer Street 
, which he contrasted with the more shocking  
Gin Lane 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 18th-century satirical English painter. He created  
A Rake's Progress 
. 
ANSWER: William  
Hogarth 
[10] In this Hogarth series, Earl Squanderfield arranges a union between his son and a merchant's daughter. 
Its entries include  
The Tete-a-Tete 
 and  
The Toilette 
. 
ANSWER:  
Marriage a la Mode 
[10] In  
Marriage a-la-mode 
, this lawyer has an affair with the Countess. He kills the Countess's husband 
after being caught. 
ANSWER:  
Silvertongue 
149-12-59-08204  
5. In \"Under Ben Bulben,\" this poet wrote his own epitaph, reading, \"Cast a cold eye on life, on death. 
Horseman, pass by!\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Irish poet of \"Sailing to Byzantium\" and \"The Second Coming.\" 
ANSWER: William Butler  
Yeats 
[10] In this poem, Yeats ponders how \"a shudder in the loins engenders there the broken wall, the burning 
roof and tower and Agamemnon dead\" in treating the title mythological rape. 
ANSWER: \" 
Leda and the Swan 
\" 
[10] Much of Yeats's poetry was inspired by this Irish revolutionary, who repeatedly refused his offers of 
marriage. Yeats asks, \"Why should I blame her that she filled my days with misery?\" at the beginning of 
\"No Second Troy.\" 
ANSWER: Maud  
Gonne 
080-12-59-08205  
6. The Salviati family took part in this event. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this event in which members of the namesake family attempted to assassinate two members of 
the Medici family during Easter church services. 
ANSWER:  
Pazzi 
 Conspiracy 
[10] Unlike his brother Giuliano, this man survived the Pazzi Conspiracy. This father of Pope Leo X was a 
capable ruler and patron of many artists, including Leonardo da Vinci. 
ANSWER:  
Lorenzo 
 de Medici [or  
Lorenzo 
 the Magnificent; or  
Lorenzo 
 il Magnifico] 
[10] This name was shared by Lorenzo's father, called \"the Gouty,\" and his incompetent son, who caused 
the family's 1494 to 1512 expulsion from Florence. 
ANSWER:  
Piero 
 de Medici [prompt on de  
Medici 
] 
105-12-59-08206  
7. One character in this play keeps seeing hallucinations of his older brother Ben, who went into the jungle 
and came back a rich man. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play about Willy Loman, who ultimately kills himself to provide for his family with his life 
insurance money. 
ANSWER:  
Death of a Salesman 
[10] Willy’s son, Biff, becomes disillusioned and loses his impulse to do well in school after he visits his 
father in Boston and realizes that his father is engaging in this activity while on the road. 
ANSWER:  
having an affair 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
[10] This other dysfunctional family is the subject of Miller’s play  
All My Sons. 
 This family's patriarch Joe 
produced faulty airplane parts, leading to the deaths of several pilots in World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Keller 
052-12-59-08207  
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  7 of 12 
8. In one construct named for him, photons are represented by wavy lines and gluons are depicted as 
spirals. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this colorful Caltech physicist best known for his namesake diagrams showing particle 
interactions. He was also part of the Manhattan project and the commission that investigated the Challenger 
disaster. 
ANSWER: Richard  
Feynman 
[10] Feynman is also known for his work on this formulation of quantum field theory. It applies the 
principle of least action to quantum mechanics by considering an infinite number of trajectories to give a 
quantum amplitude. 
ANSWER:  
path integral 
 formulation [prompt on partial; prompt on  
line integral 
] 
[10] The principle of least action involves minimizing the time integral of this quantity. In quantum field 
theory, this quantity also has an associated density that is integrated over all of space-time to give the 
action. 
ANSWER:  
Lagrangian 
127-12-59-08208  
9. One member of this group was the former filibuster John A. Quitman. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give the term for this political group, which consisted of extremist pro-slavery Southerners who 
pushed for secession from the Union. Other members included Robert Rhett and William Yancey, and they 
supported John Breckinridge for the presidency in 1860. 
ANSWER:  
Fire-Eaters 
[10] Quitman died in 1858, apparently after developing the mysterious \"National Hotel Disease\" while 
attending the inauguration of this President. This President did little during the Fort Sumter crisis, leaving 
the problems of the seceding South to his successor, Abraham Lincoln. 
ANSWER: James  
Buchanan 
[10] Quitman supported Narciso Lopez's 1850 journey to this location. Lopez intended for it to become 
independent and potentially a new slave state. The Ostend Manifesto was a proposed attempt to purchase it. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Cuba 
 [or Republica de  
Cuba 
] 
052-12-59-08209  
10. This plant's infestation of the Sepik River has been blamed for starving subsistence farmers in Papua 
New Guinea. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this plant that has spread from South America to six continents. Because its population can 
double in as little as six days, and because it forms \"mats\" that coat the surface of waterways, it is 
considered the world's worst invasive aquatic plant. 
ANSWER:  
water hyacinth 
 [or  
Eichhornia 
; or  
E ichhornia  crassipes 
] 
[10] Water hyacinths covered 80% of Uganda's shoreline of this lake just seven years after it was first 
observed there. The invasive water hyacinth and Nile perch have caused extinction of many cichlids in this 
large African lake. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Victoria 
[10] James Ogwang combated the Lake Victoria water hyacinth problem by introducing a natural predator, 
this kind of insect. This kind of beetle is found in the superfamily Curculionoidea, and a particularly 
damaging species lays its eggs in cotton crops. 
ANSWER:  
weevil 
s 
003-12-59-08210  
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  8 of 12 
11. One signal to this event was the playing of the banned folk song \"Grandola, Vila Morena\" over the 
radio. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this April 1974 event that toppled the government of Marcelo Caetano. It began the end of its 
country's colonial war and featured no firing of shots. 
ANSWER:  
Carnation Revolution 
 [or  
Revolucao dos Cravos 
] 
[10] The Carnation Revolution ended the Estado Novo dictatorship in this European country. This country's 
colonial wars took place in Angola and Mozambique. 
ANSWER:  
Portugal 
 [or  
Portuguese Republic 
; or  
Republica Portuguesa 
] 
[10] During the Estado Novo, Portugal maintained an alliance with this country, as signified by a 1386 
treaty and the marriage of John I of Portugal. That alliance with this country is the oldest diplomatic 
alliance still in force. 
ANSWER:  
England 
 [or  
Great Britain 
; or  
United Kingdom 
] 
052-12-59-08211  
12. This region’s “House of Wonders” was built for Sultan Barghash bin Said. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this semi-autonomous part of a larger country. It consists of such islands as Ugunja and Pemba 
and is noted for its spice trade. 
ANSWER:  
Zanzibar 
[10] Zanzibar merged with Tanganyika in 1964 to form this modern day African republic, whose largest 
city is Dar es Salaam. 
ANSWER: United Republic of  
Tanzania 
[10] The two main islands of Zanzibar form the Spice Islands along with this other island owned by 
Tanzania, also known as Chole. Its name comes from an Arabic word meaning “group” or “archipelago,” 
not from a more well known Italian word. 
ANSWER:  
Mafia 
 Island 
052-12-59-08212  
13. This work presents 18th and 19th-century cafés and salons as model environments for rational and 
critical discourse and the formation of public opinion. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this text which blames the rise of mass media, the commodification of ideas, and consumer 
culture for the title phenomenon and the decline of productive democratic intellectualism. 
ANSWER:  
The  Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere 
 [or  
Strukturwandel der Öffentlichkeit 
] 
[10]  
The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere 
 was written by this German philosopher. He 
distinguished between strategic action and action aimed at achieving understanding in  
The Theory of 
Communicative Action. 
ANSWER: Jürgen  
Habermas 
[10] Habermas engaged in a series of debates with this French thinker who theorized deconstruction and 
wrote  
Of Grammatology. 
ANSWER: Jacques  
Derrida 
014-12-59-08213  
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  9 of 12 
14. One piece in this collection, \"Wedding Day at Troldhaugen,\" is named for the summer home of the 
composer. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this collection of piano pieces by a Norwegian composer. They also include \"Watchman's 
Song\" and \"Butterfly.\" 
ANSWER:  
Lyric Pieces 
[10] This Norwegian composed incidental music to  
Peer Gynt, 
 including \"In the Hall of the Mountain 
King,\" in addition to composing  
Lyric Pieces. 
ANSWER: Edvard  
Grieg 
[10] This is the first piece on Grieg's  
Lyric Pieces 
. Grieg reused its main theme in the last lyric piece, 
\"Remembrances.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Arietta 
\" 
126-12-59-08214  
15. This author coined the phrase “The pen is mightier than the sword” in his play  
Richelieu. 
 For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this English author whose most famous novel,  
Paul Clifford, 
 tells the story of a man who lives a 
double life as a criminal and a gentleman. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Bulwer-Lytton 
[10] Notoriously,  
Paul Clifford 
 begins with this seven-word phrase describing the time of day and weather 
conditions in the novel’s setting of London. It is an infamous example of purple prose. 
ANSWER: “ 
It was a dark and stormy night 
” 
[10] Bulwer-Lytton’s novel  
Pelham 
 is similar to this author’s novel  
Vivian Grey. 
 This man wrote several 
other political novels, such as  
Coningsby, 
 as well as a novel about the working class entitled  
Sybil. 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
Disraeli 
 [or the 1st Earl of  
Beaconsfield 
] 
052-12-59-08215  
16. She once managed to kill two Centaurs who tried to attack her, and she was the mother of 
Parthenopaeus, a member of the Seven Against Thebes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this woman from Greek myth, who defeated Peleus in a wrestling match during the funeral 
games for Pelias. 
ANSWER:  
Atalanta 
[10] Atalanta was the first to wound this mythological creature; the killing blow on it was struck by 
Meleager. 
ANSWER: the  
Calydonian boar 
[10] Atalanta and her husband Hippomenes were turned into lions in a temple to this goddess. Her consort 
was the self-castrated Attis. 
ANSWER:  
Cybele 
088-12-59-08216  
17. Types of this phenomenon include contact and penetration. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this phenomenon in which two crystal intergrow in a symmetric manner. 
ANSWER:  
twinning 
[10] Growth twinning can be defined according to any of the three symmetry operations involved. Name 
one. 
ANSWER:  
reflection 
 across a twin plane [or  
rotation 
 about a twin axis or  
inversion 
 through a twin 
center] 
[10] This form of contact twinning occurs when multiple twins occur along parallel planes. 
ANSWER:  
polysynthetic 
 twinning [or  
lamellar 
 twinning; prompt on  
multiple 
 twinning] 
149-12-59-08217  
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  10 of 12 
18. This character plays the role of Laura in an amateur production of “Under the Gaslight.” For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this woman who begins the novel she appears in by arriving in Chicago from Wisconsin. She 
lives with the salesman Charles Drouet before beginning an affair with bar manager George Hurstwood. 
ANSWER:  
Carrie 
 Meeber [or Carrie  
Meeber 
; or  
Caroline 
 Meeber; or “Sister  
Carrie 
”; or Caroline 
“Carrie”  
Wheeler 
] 
[10] Carrie is the title character of  
Sister Carrie, 
 which was written by this naturalist American writer. His 
other novels include  
An American Tragedy. 
ANSWER: Theodore  
Dreiser 
[10] In  
An American Tragedy, 
 Clyde Griffiths causes Roberta Alden to drown by striking her head with one 
of these objects. 
ANSWER: a  
camera 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
052-12-59-08218  
19. He supported his cousin Pepin II as King of Aquitaine. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this son of Louis the Pious who was defeated by his brothers Charles the Bold and Louis the 
German at the Battle of Fontenay. 
ANSWER:  
Lothair 
 I 
[10] Lothair received Italy and other regions from the Treaty of Verdun, which divided the kingdom of this 
grandfather of Lothair. This man was crowned by Leo III in Rome in 800 CE. 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
 [or  
Charles I 
; or  
Charles the Great 
; or  
Charles le Grand 
; or  
Carolus Magnus 
; or  
Karl der Grosse 
; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
[10] Prior to the Battle of Fontenay, Charles the Bold and Louis the German swore allegiance to each other 
in this document. 
ANSWER:  
Oath 
s of  
Strasbourg 
079-12-59-08219  
20. This cycloalkane is used as a raw material in the production of nylon. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this compound whose conformations are known as chair and boat. It is formed by the complete 
reduction of benzene. 
ANSWER:  
cyclohexane 
[10] Cyclohexane can be produced from benzene in the Sabatier process, which involves adding this very 
light and explosive gas with molecular weight of around 2. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen 
 gas [or  
H2 
] 
[10] Modifications of cyclohexane allow it to react and form this derivative, a cyclohexane ring with a 
single double bond. Diels-Alder reactions create derivatives of this molecule. 
ANSWER:  
cyclohexene 
149-12-59-08220  
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  11 of 12 
21. Gary Fanelli protested this action by wearing a shirt saying \"The Road to Moscow Ends Here\" while 
competing in a marathon. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this action led by the U.S. in 1980 and by the Soviet Union in 1984, each in protest of the other's 
foreign policy. In 1984, this resulted in the U.S. winning a lot of gold medals in certain events. 
ANSWER:  
boycotting 
 the Summer  
Olympics 
 [accept synonyms for \"boycotting\"] 
[10] During the 1980 Summer Olympics, a gold medal winning pole vault jumper from this country 
enraged the Moscow crowd by making a defiant gesture in their direction. This country's border with the 
Soviet Union was known as the Curzon Line. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Poland 
 [or Rzeczpospolita  
Polska 
] 
[10] The wisdom of the original 1980 Olympic boycott was discussed at this annual meeting, which brings 
in over 100 powerful guests, who are mostly bankers from North American and Western Europe countries. 
First held in 1954 at a Dutch hotel which gives this meeting its name, it is the focus of many conspiracy 
theories. 
ANSWER:  
Bilderberg 
 Group [or  
Bilderberg 
 conference; or  
Bilderberg 
 Club] 
052-12-59-08221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 8     Page  12 of 12 
