VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 4 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Taking the set of each principal axis divided by the square root of its value for this quantity yields an 
ellipsoid. Steiner's theorem, also known as the parallel axis theorem, finds this quantity if it is known about 
an axis running through the center of mass. This quantity is equal to the sum of the product of each point 
mass with the square of its distance from the axis of rotation. It multiplies angular acceleration to give 
torque. For 10 points, name this rotational analogue of mass. 
ANSWER:  
moment of inertia 
 [or  ; prompt on  
I inertia 
] 
001-10-18-04101 
2. One character in this novel beats Herb to death with a shovel. That character, Connie Rivers, later 
marries a character who delivers a stillborn baby, Rose of Sharon. Grampa and Granma both die during a 
journey which takes place in this novel, in which a family whose members include Tom, Ma, and Pa tries 
to escape the Dust Bowl. For 10 points, name this Steinbeck novel about the Joads' journey from Oklahoma 
to California. 
ANSWER:  
The  Grapes of Wrath 
045-10-18-04102 
3. The astronomer James Keeler names a needle of this mountain, which was almost named Fisherman’s 
Peak after the profession of its first climbers. The town of Lone Pine can be found to its east in the Owens 
Valley. This southern terminus of the John Muir Trail is located in both the Inyo National Forest and the 
Sequoia National Park. The Badwater Basin, the lowest point in North America, is located a mere 
eighty-five miles from, for 10 points, what mountain in California, the highest in the contiguous United 
States? 
ANSWER: Mount  
Whitney 
083-10-18-04103 
4. The ruling family during this period was symbolized by three hollyhock leaves. The golden age of this 
period was the Genroku era. This period was established after its namesake founder won the Battle of 
Sekigahara. During this period, which established its capital at Edo, only samurai were allowed to carry 
swords. The country under this government was forced open by Matthew Perry and the Treaty of 
Kanagawa. This period gave way to the Meiji Restoration in 1868. For 10 points, name this last shogunate 
of Japan. 
ANSWER:  
Tokugawa 
 Shogunate [or  
Tokugawa 
 Bakufu; or  
Edo 
 Period before it is read] 
080-10-18-04104 
5. In a laboratory environment, calcium chloride and sodium sulfate are commonly used \"agents\" for 
removing this substance; those agents are known as dessicants. This substance's solid-liquid phase 
boundary has a negative slope. Its triple point is used to define the Kelvin. One molecule of this is formed 
in a condensation reaction. Many of this compound's unusual properties, such as its solid being less dense 
than its liquid form, are the result of hydrogen bonds. For 10 points, name this chemical with formula H O. 
2 
ANSWER:  
water 
 [accept  
H O 
2 
 before mentioned] 
001-10-18-04105 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  1 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. The Keo Nua Pass in this country is one of the few passes through the Annamese Cordillera 
(CORE-dee-YARE-uh). This nation's capital includes the Temple of the Trung Sisters and is located on the 
Red River. The imperial citadel of Dai Noi is found in this country's onetime capital Hue (hway). For 10 
points, name this Southeast Asian nation that was reunified in 1975 after a bloody war between the 
communist north and U.S.-aligned south. 
ANSWER:  
Vietnam 
030-10-18-04106 
7. Before the discovery of this molecule, its importance was realized by men like Richard Hawkins and the 
writer of  
The Surgeon's Mate, 
 John Woodall. James Lind was the first to advocate for the consumption of a 
source of this molecule by members of a certain profession. Albert Szent-Gyorgyi (\"SAINT\"-\"GEORGE\") 
originally misidentified this nutrient as hexuronic acid before truly discovering it. For 10 points, name this 
vitamin that some people advocate taking in megadoses, which was eventually used by the British navy to 
eliminate sailors' problems with scurvy. 
ANSWER:  
Vitamin C 
 [or L- 
ascorbic acid 
; or  
C H O 
6 8 6 
] 
023-10-18-04107 
8. This man’s return home was expedited when his lover murdered her brother Apsyrtus. Two of this 
hero’s men, Zetes and Calais, drove the harpies away from Phineas. Sent from Iolchos by his conniving 
uncle Pelias, this man arrived at Colchis, where Medea helped him obtain the golden fleece. This hero 
sailed in a ship with a prophetic prow along with Greece’s greatest heroes. For 10 points, name this leader 
of the Argonauts. 
ANSWER:  
Jason 
080-10-18-04108 
9. Sam Houston resigned as Governor of Texas to protest this action. The Federalist Party was ruined 
because the Hartford Convention became synonymous with performing this action, even though it decided 
against it. The admittance of California caused some states to threaten to do this in 1850, although no state 
actually performed this action until the election of Abraham Lincoln incited South Carolina to perform it. 
For 10 points, name this action taken by Southern states which directly caused the Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
seceding 
 from the  
Union 
 [or  
seceding 
 from the  nited  tates; or clear-knowledge equivalents] 
U S 
004-10-18-04109 
10. Entering this region is the ultimate goal of the Chikyu Hakken (CHEE-kew HAWK-ken) project. The 
lowermost section of this region is known as the D double-prime layer. Its upper boundary is a 
discontinuity commonly known as the Moho. Its upper section contains the asthenosphere and shares the 
lithosphere with the region above it. For 10 points, name this layer of the Earth between the core and the 
crust. 
ANSWER:  
mantle 
024-10-18-04110 
11. As part of a punishment, this character forces his children to read to the dying Mrs. Dubose for a 
month. One argument made by this man focuses on how a left-handed person would be more likely to 
produce a bruise on the right side of the face than a man with a shriveled left arm. At one point, this man’s 
sister, Aunt Alexandra, stays at his house. He lives with his maid Calpurnia, and defends Tom Robinson on 
charges of rape brought up by Mayella Ewell. For 10 points, name this father of Jem and Scout, a central 
character in  
To Kill a Mockingbird 
. 
ANSWER:  
Atticus 
 Finch [prompt on “Finch”] 
064-10-18-04111 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  2 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This battle started after troops under Henry Heth (HEETH) spotted John Buford's cavalry. Key 
locations in this battle included the Peach Orchard and Devil's Den. One general in this battle, Dan Sickles, 
disobeyed orders by moving his corps from its location along Cemetery Ridge. That ridge was the object of 
Pickett's Charge at the end of this battle. George Meade's victory in this battle ended a Confederate 
invasion of the North. For 10 points, name this battle whose site was later the location of an Address by 
Abraham Lincoln. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Gettysburg 
024-10-18-04112 
13. One play by this author opens as a character sits upon a stone and is ordered by villagers to leave, as he 
trespasses on lands sacred to the Furies. In another play, the chorus proclaims that punishment brings 
wisdom after the suicides of Eurydice (you-RID-uh-see) and Haemon (HIGH-mahn). That play is about 
Ismene’s (is-MEH-nay) sister, who buries one of her brothers. This author wrote about the self-induced 
blindness of the title character in another play, who defeats the Sphinx, kills his father, and marries his 
mother. For 10 points, identify this playwright of  
Antigone 
 and  
Oedipus Rex 
. 
ANSWER:  
Sophocles 
020-10-18-04113 
14. The Bloody Assizes were held during the rule of this king following a plot to overthrow him known as 
the Monmouth Rebellion. This monarch issued the Declaration of Indulgence, which granted religious 
toleration to Christians. That document led his critics to invite a foreign army led by William of Orange of 
the Netherlands. Forces loyal to this man were defeated at the Battle of the Boyne, two years after he was 
overthrown by William III and Mary II during the Glorious Revolution. For 10 points, name this English 
king who succeeded Charles II. 
ANSWER:  
James II 
 of England [or  
James VII of Scotland 
; prompt on  
James 
] 
064-10-18-04114 
15. A standardized form of these vehicles were developed in the 1930s under the direction of the 
Presidents’ Conference Committee. Under the guise of National City Lines, a consortium including 
General Motors and Firestone converted many of these systems to motor buses in the 1950s. Modern 
versions of these systems are known as light rail. For 10 points, name this form of public transit whose 
most famous incarnations are the cable cars of San Francisco and, as made famous by a Tennessee 
Williams play, New Orleans’s “Desire” line. 
ANSWER:  
streetcar 
s [or  
tram 
s or  
trolley 
s or  
trolley 
cars or  
light rail 
s before those terms are read] 
082-10-18-04115 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  3 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 4 
Directed Round 
1A. \"Lateral,\" \"ground,\" and \"terminal\" are types of what piles of accumulated glacial debris? 
ANSWER:  
moraines 
1B.  The corpus callosum links the hemispheres of what body part that also consists of a medulla oblongata 
for controlling breathing, a cortex for memory, and a cerebellum for motor skills? 
ANSWER:  
brain 
2A.  What President signed the Walker Tariff and initiated the Mexican-American War? 
ANSWER: James Knox  
Polk 
2B.  What Scottish philosopher wrote an influential six volume  
History of England 
 and  
An Enquiry 
concerning Human Understanding 
? 
ANSWER: David  
Hume 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the area of a circle whose diameter is 8 over pi. 
ANSWER:  
16 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the sine of 90 degrees? 
ANSWER:  
1 
4A.  What 2009 movie starred Sam Worthington as Jake Sully, a paraplegic who helps the Na'vi fight 
against humans seeking to plunder the planet of Pandora? 
ANSWER:  
Avatar 
4B.  Mason and Hudson are the main characters of what November 2010 installment in the Call of Duty 
series? 
ANSWER:  
Call of Duty:  Black Ops 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the mean of the numbers 1 through 13? 
ANSWER: x =  
7 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. How many ways are there to choose 2 pelicans from a group 
of five pelicans? 
ANSWER:  
10 
6A.  English took the word “boondocks” from Tagalog (tah-GAW-log), which is traditionally the first 
language for the residents of what populous Pacific Island nation, that also commonly speaks English and 
Spanish? 
ANSWER: Republic of the  
Philippines 
 [or Republika ng  
Pilipinas 
] 
6B.  What painting by Théodore Géricault (GAIR-ee-koh) portrays the desperate survivors of an 1816 
shipwreck? 
ANSWER:  
The  Raft of the Medusa 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the solution for the system of equations 2y + x = 19, 
two thirds y plus five halves z equals 36, x + z = 13? 
ANSWER:  
x = 1 y = 9 z = 12 
,  ,  
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What if x is congruent to 3 mod 7, x is congruent to 2 mod 5, 
and x is greater than 0 and less than 35? 
ANSWER: x =  
17 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  4 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8A.  What German Baroque composer repeated the notes D, A, B, F-sharp, G, D, G, A in his iconic  
Canon 
in D 
? 
ANSWER: Johann  
Pachelbel 
8B.  What world leader plans to implement his \"Big Society\" as the Conservative prime minister of Great 
Britain? 
ANSWER: David William Donald  
Cameron 
9A.  Name the oil rig leased by BP where an explosion in April 2010 led to a five-month effort to kill the 
ensuing oil spill, that was finally successful on September 19th, 2010. 
ANSWER:  
Deepwater Horizon 
9B.  What type of matter makes up neon signs and stars, as well as over ninety-nine percent of the 
universe? 
ANSWER:  
plasma 
s 
10A.  Io and Callisto are moons of what planet, which also has a Great Red Spot? 
ANSWER:  
Jupiter 
10B.  Name the Absurdist French-Romanian playwright who created characters such as Berenger in  
Rhinoceros 
, as well as the Smiths and Martins in  
The Bald Soprano 
. 
ANSWER: Eugene  
Ionesco 
 [or Eugen  
Ionescu 
] 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  5 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 4 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One of this artist’s paintings depicts Brutus sitting in the shadows as lictors bring his dead sons out to 
him, while Hersilia, the wife of Romulus, separates two fighting men in his  
The Intervention of the Sabine 
Women 
. Another painting by this man shows three brothers holding out their arms as their father holds 
three swords, while another work shows a victim of Charlotte Corday lying in a bathtub. For 10 points, 
name this French Neoclassical painter of  
The Oath of the Horatii 
 and  
The Death of Marat 
. 
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis  
David 
064-10-18-04117 
2. In Greek and Roman literature, this genre was predominantly associated with dactylic hexameter and 
began \"in medias res.\" European examples of this genre include  
Orlando Furioso The Faerie Queene 
,  , and  
The Song of Roland 
. This type of poem often describes important events in the history of a nation, such as 
the founding of Rome by Aeneas in the  
Aeneid 
. For 10 points, name this genre of long, narrative poetry that 
traditionally describes heroic deeds. 
ANSWER:  
epic 
s [or  
epic poem 
s; or  
epic poetry 
; or clear-knowledge equivalents] 
004-10-18-04118 
3. Many languages in this group use a tri-consonantal root, in which vowels around and between 
consonants change to mark word inflection, but consonants within the word remain the same. Languages in 
this subfamily include Ge’ez, Amharic, and other tongues spoken in Ethiopia, as well as an ancient 
language likely spoken by Jesus and his contemporaries, Aramaic. For 10 points, identify this group within 
the Afro-Asiatic family that also includes the contemporary Middle Eastern languages Arabic and Hebrew. 
ANSWER:  
Semitic 
 languages [accept  
Afro-Asiatic 
 before “subfamily” is read] 
019-10-18-04119 
4. This animal, which is not flat like the rest of its class, has a coiled ileum in its small intestine to provide a 
greater surface area for increased absorption of food called the spiral valve. This animal also has a series of 
jelly-filled canals that function as electroreceptors in water called the Ampullae of Lorenzini. Lacking a 
swim bladder and noted for regenerating their teeth, they must always swim to keep afloat. Related to 
skates and rays, for 10 points, name this animal typified by the species cookiecutter, tiger, and great white, 
a cartilaginous fish. 
ANSWER:  
shark 
s 
079-10-18-04120 
5. This city’s original NBA franchise moved in 1979 to Salt Lake City, and their current NBA franchise 
moved in after the 2001-2002 season. This city is home to a stadium which has hosted, starting in 1978, 
more Super Bowls than any other. That stadium is also known for the Sugar Bowl and for serving as a 
makeshift shelter for many victims of Hurricane Katrina. For 10 points, name this city which is home to the 
Hornets, and whose Louisiana Superdome hosts the NFL’s Saints. 
ANSWER:  
New Orleans 
082-10-18-04121 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  6 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One of this man’s works concerns a Burger Chef owner who mistakes a science-fiction book for the 
literal truth, while foma and granfaloons are elements of Bokononism in a work of his where ice-nine 
destroys the world. Another work by this author of  
Breakfast of Champions 
 centers on an optometrist from 
Ilium, New York who experiences the firebombing of Dresden in World War II and becomes “unstuck in 
time.” For 10 points, name this author of  
Cat’s Cradle 
 who told the story of Billy Pilgrim in  
Slaughterhouse-Five 
. 
ANSWER: Kurt  
Vonnegut 
082-10-18-04122 
7. Kendall notation allows one to characterize models based on actual instances of this structure. Multilevel 
feedback scheduling uses these data structures. Double ended ones are possible while heaps and their 
variants are typically used to implement priority ones. This data structure supports a front operation and 
this data type is usually contrasted with a stack. For 10 points, name this data structure that is first in first 
out and are exemplified by lines at grocery stores. 
ANSWER:  
queue 
 [prompt on  
FIFO 
] 
001-10-18-04123 
8. The best-known critical work concerning this book begins with the allegory of the tower and attacks W. 
P. Ker’s statement that this book’s hero has “nothing else to do.” That critical work, J. R. R. Tolkien’s  
The 
Monsters and the Critics 
, contends that Fafnir and this work's third antagonist are the only prominent 
dragons in Northern European epic poetry. Tolkien also accepts that this epic was written “during the age 
of Bede,” and that it is not an actual depiction of “historic Denmark or Sweden about A.D. 500.” For 10 
points, name this Old English poem about a hero who defeats the monster Grendel. 
ANSWER:  
Beowulf 
003-10-18-04124 
9. For a uniform ball rolling down an incline with angle theta, a coefficient of proportionality associated 
with this quantity must be at least two-sevenths tangent theta to prevent slipping. A slipping ball, however, 
requires a different coefficient associated with the quantity, because the coefficient depends on whether or 
not the contact points are moving. Both the static and kinetic type of this force are proportional to the 
normal force. For 10 points, name this force that opposes the direction of an object’s motion. 
ANSWER:  
friction 
al force 
003-10-18-04125 
10. Members of this religion believe in a messiah called the Mahdi. Converting to this religion only 
requires reciting the shahada. This religion's believers pray five times a day while facing qibla. Its two main 
branches are Sunni and Shi'a, and its members make annual pilgrimages to Mecca. For 10 points, name this 
religion that follows the Quran, which was dictated by its founder, Muhammad. 
ANSWER:  
Islam 
004-10-18-04126 
11. The speaker of one of this man's poems says \"I am not Prince Hamlet, nor was meant to be\" and asks 
\"Do I dare to eat a peach?\" The phrase \"Hurry up please it's time\" is repeated in \"A Game of Chess,\" the 
second section of one of his poems. That poem, whose other sections include \"What the Thunder Said\" and 
\"The Burial of the Dead,\" begins \"April is the cruellest month.\" For 10 points, name this poet of \"The Love 
Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\" and  
The Waste Land 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns  
Eliot 
045-10-18-04127 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  7 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. In RSA encryption, two of these numbers are multiplied together to create a public key. Proof of the 
Riemann hypothesis would link the distribution of these numbers to solutions of the Riemann zeta function. 
The Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic states that every positive integer greater than one is a unique 
product of these numbers. For 10 points, name these numbers that are only divisible by themselves and one. 
ANSWER:  
prime number 
s 
004-10-18-04128 
13. This author wrote a novella in which David Kepesh turns into the title body part. He included the short 
story \"The Conversion of the Jews\" in his first book,  
Goodbye, Columbus 
. Nathan Zuckerman narrates his 
novel  
The Human Stain 
. He also wrote a novel whose title character delivers a monologue about his sexual 
exploits to his psychiatrist, Dr. Spielvogel. For 10 points, name this author of  
Portnoy's Complaint 
. 
ANSWER: Philip Milton  
Roth 
024-10-18-04129 
14. One natural variety of this compound is found in blueberries, and is called anthocyanin 
(AN-tho-SYE-uh-nin). Another example of this compound is named for its similarity in color to the 
mineral malachite (MAL-uh-kite). Another one of these compounds is used as a color marker in gel 
electrophoresis, while another can turn fuchsia when it is used. Bromophenol (BRO-me-FEE-nol) blue and 
phenolphthalein (FEE-nol-THAY-leen) are examples of, for 10 points, what type of compound whose color 
changes are used to determine the pH of a substance? 
ANSWER: pH  
indicators 
081-10-18-04130 
15. John Kay and James Hargreaves made inventions that allowed for greater growth of this crop, with 
those inventions being the flying shuttle and spinning jenny. The belief that Europe was dependent on this 
crop led it to be known as \"king.\" In the late nineteenth century, this crop was ravaged by the boll weevil. 
This crop became widely grown after a machine was made to separate it from its seeds. That machine was 
made by Eli Whitney and called its \"gin.\" For 10 points, name this main crop grown by slave states in the 
American South. 
ANSWER:  
cotton 
004-10-18-04131 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  8 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 4 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. A soliloquy from this play features the main character lamenting “Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor 
player.” One character in this play was born via C-section and camouflages his soldiers in tree limbs from 
Birnam Wood, allowing him to exact revenge while fulfilling the prophecy of the three witches. The title 
character’s wife sleepwalks, uttering “Out, out damned spot!” For 10 points, name this Shakespeare 
tragedy in which the titular Thane of Cawdor murders King Duncan, often referred to as the “Scottish 
Play.” 
ANSWER:  
Macbeth 
082-10-18-04132 
2. These cells come in pyramidal and multipolar varieties. Protein synthesis in them takes place in Nissl 
(NISS-uhl) bodies. One component of them is protected by a myelin (MY-uh-lin) sheath, which may be 
formed of Schwann (SHVAHN) cells. They come in afferent and efferent types, which are also known as 
sensory and motor, respectively. They consist of a soma, dendrites, and an axon, and transmit impulses 
across synapses. For 10 points, name these cells of the nervous system. 
ANSWER:  
neuron 
s [accept  
nerve cell 
s before \"nervous\"] 
024-10-18-04133 
3. This leader survived a crushing defeat at Dyrrhachium (deer-RAWK-ee-um) to win a civil war. He built 
two concentric walls to besiege the city of Alesia, and wrote that \"all of Gaul is divided into three parts\" 
after defeating Vercengetorix (vur-sin-GET-uh-riks) there. This husband of Calpurnia won the battle of 
Pharsalus and made up the First Triumvirate with Crassus and Pompey. Like his lieutenant Mark Antony, 
he fell in love with Cleopatra. For 10 points, name this Roman dictator who was killed by Brutus and 
Cassius on the Ides of March. 
ANSWER: Gaius Julius  
Caesar 
015-10-18-04134 
4. This politician was nearly assassinated by the student Ferdinand Cohen-Blind. This politician initiated 
the Kulturkampf against his country's Catholic Church. This man formed the League of the Three Emperors 
and the Triple Alliance in order to ensure the balance of power in late nineteenth century Europe. He also 
provoked the Franco-Prussian War and worked for Wilhelm I in engineering the unification of Germany. 
For 10 points, name this German statesman nicknamed the \"Iron Chancellor.\" 
ANSWER: Otto Eduard Leopold von  
Bismarck 
004-10-18-04135 
5. This god gave the horse Gullfaxi to his son Magni after killing the giant Hrungnir with the help of his 
servant Thialfi. This god disguised himself as Freya to reclaim his weapon from Thrym, and will kill the 
Midgard Serpent at Ragnarok, only to die from its poison. He kills his enemies with lightning bolts from 
his hammer, Mjollnir. For 10 points, name this Norse god of thunder. 
ANSWER:  
Thor 
004-10-18-04136 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 4     Page  9 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
