VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 2 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Nicknamed \"Turd Blossom,\" this man once pranked Alan Dixon's campaign by giving fliers to homeless 
shelters promising free beer at his rallies. This man devised the plan of push-polling voters in South 
Carolina to claim that one candidate's Bangladeshi daughter was an illegitimate black child. He resigned as 
Deputy Chief of Staff in the aftermath of the Valerie Plame affair. This man cofounded the SuperPAC 
American Crossroads, which supports the Romney campaign. For 10 points, name this Republican political 
consultant, dubbed \"the Architect\" of Bush's electoral victories. 
ANSWER: Karl Christian  
Rove 
080-12-71-02101 
2. Ambrogio and Berta are two servants in this opera. The soprano in this work sings the aria \"Una voce 
poco fa\" while receiving a love letter that is eventually exchanged for a laundry list. The title character of 
this opera pretends to be Lindoro in order to help his employer, Count Almaviva, attract the ward of Dr. 
Bartolo, Rosina. One of the most famous arias from this opera is \"Largo al factotum.\" For 10 points, name 
this opera by Rossini about the title character, Figaro. 
ANSWER:  
The  Barber of Seville 
192-12-71-02102 
3. This man derived an equation for the propagation of voltage down the trans-Atlantic telegraph cable and 
coined the term \"kinetic energy.\" He used the temperature of the sun as the basis for his incorrect 
calculation of the age of the Earth, and also claimed that physics prevented heavier-than-air flying 
machines. For 10 points, name this man who defined the absolute temperature scale now named after him. 
ANSWER: William Thomson, Lord  
Kelvin 
 [or William  
Thomson 
] 
003-12-71-02103 
4. In one account of this war, \"all words meant their opposite\" during a riot on Corcyra (kor-SIGH-ruh), 
whose disputed control had been a cause of this war. The brief peace of Nicias was broken for this war's 
Sicilian expedition led by Alcibiades, as recounted by the historian Thucydides. This war lasted thirty years 
and started under one side's rule by the democratic statesman Pericles. For 10 points, name this war 
between Athens and Sparta, fought partly around the namesake Spartan-controlled peninsula. 
ANSWER:  
Peloponnesian 
 War 
104-12-71-02104 
5. This artist sculpted a tall bronze canopy to mark the location of a tomb. This sculptor included the 
emblem of the Pamphilij family and a towering Egyptian obelisk in one of his works, which personifies the 
Ganges and the Rio de la Plata. For the Cornaro Chapel, he created a sculpture in which a shower of gold 
light illuminates a smiling angel who pierces the title woman with his fiery spear. For 10 points, name this 
Baroque Italian sculptor of the  
Fountain of the Four Rivers 
 and the  
The Ecstasy of St. Theresa 
. 
ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo  
Bernini 
080-12-71-02105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  1 of 9 
6. \"Fighting Joe\" Wheeler led one side at this war's engagement at Las Guasimas. Leonard Wood led the 
First Volunteer Cavalry in this war. Another theater of this war saw Dewey's victory at the Battle of Manila 
Bay. One battle during this war saw Theodore Roosevelt charge San Juan Hill with the Rough Riders. This 
conflict was described as a \"splendid little war\" by John Hay and was covered by the \"yellow journalism\" 
of Hearst and Pulitzer. For 10 points, name this 1898 war that began after the USS  
Maine 
 exploded in 
Havana. 
ANSWER:  
Spanish-American 
 War 
192-12-71-02106 
7. One character in this novel warns that \"we must not always talk in the marketplace of what happens to us 
in the forest,\" after another notices the changed appearance of a man on Election Day. This novel was the 
fictional version of a manuscript discovered in an attic, as explained in its introduction, \"The 
Custom-House.\" The main characters' plan to flee to Europe is foiled after they discover that Roger 
Chillingworth booked passage on the same ship, prompting Arthur Dimmesdale to confess his sins and fall 
dead. For 10 points, name this novel about Hester Prynne, the bearer of the title mark of adultery, written 
by Nathaniel Hawthorne. 
ANSWER:  
The  Scarlet Letter 
020-12-71-02107 
8. A Keats poem in this form compares the title action to \"stout Cortes\" when he first saw the Pacific 
Ocean, and is named \"On First Looking into Chapman's Homer.\" Another poem of this type asks \"How do 
I love thee? Let me count the ways.\" A form of this poem named for Petrarch is made of an octave and a 
sestet. William Shakespeare wrote works in this genre to the Fair Youth and the Dark Lady, including \"My 
mistress's eyes are nothing like the sun\" and \"Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?\" For 10 points, name 
this form of poetry that has fourteen lines. 
ANSWER:  
sonnet 
s 
192-12-71-02108 
9. This philosopher argued that his mind, not his senses, could perceive the continuity in a piece of wax that 
was melted by a fire. A tutor to Queen Christina, he put forth a thought experiment in which everything he 
knew, even mathematics, was actually an illusion brought on by an evil demon. He used that method of 
systematic doubt to determine the fundamental principles on which knowledge could be founded in his  
Meditations on First Philosophy 
. For 10 points, name this French thinker who stated \"I think, therefore, I 
am.\" 
ANSWER: Rene  
Descartes 
 [or Renatus  
Cartesius 
] 
080-12-71-02109 
10. This class of animals includes the orders of opiliones and schizomida, and one organism within this 
class is a common vector for an infectious disease caused by a bacteria from the  
Borrelia 
 genus; that 
disease is Lyme disease. The Acari subclass within this class includes ticks and mites, and other members 
within this class possess book lungs. Scorpions and turantulas belong to this class. For 10 points, identify 
this class which includes many spiders. 
ANSWER:  
Arachnid 
s [or  
Arachnida 
] 
189-12-71-02110 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  2 of 9 
11. This man caused a victory when he discovered a key pathway during the Battle of Cerro Gordo. This 
man rose to his highest position after Joseph Johnston was wounded at the Battle of Seven Pines. This man 
inflicted heavy losses from a fortified position in the Battle of Cold Harbor. This general managed to win at 
Chancellorsville despite losing his general Stonewall Jackson. For 10 points, name this man who 
commanded the Confederate Army in the Civil War. 
ANSWER: Robert Edward  
Lee 
192-12-71-02111 
12. In this city, horse chestnut trees line the Hauptalee road through the Prater park, which is also home to 
the old Riesenrad Ferris wheel. Its other landmarks include circular Ringstrasse boulevard and the site of 
the first modern zoo at Schonbrunn Palace. This European city, the headquarters of OPEC, lots its status as 
a capital after the  
Anschluss 
, though it regained it. For 10 points, name this northernmost capital city on the 
Danube river, the capital of Austria. 
ANSWER:  
Vienna 
104-12-71-02112 
13. In this novel, a diary is recorded on the then-new phonograph by Doctor Seward. An important 
shipment of fifty boxes filled with dirt comes to London in this epistolary novel, in which the Texan 
Quincey Morris stabs the title character and Renfield goes insane. This book opens with Jonathan Harker’s 
trip to an Eastern European castle, after which he and his friend Abraham Van Helsing have to save people 
with blood transfusions. For 10 points, name this Bram Stoker novel about a Transylvanian vampire. 
ANSWER:  
Dracula 
104-12-71-02113 
14. Vesicles fuse with cytoplasmic endosomes on the pathway to this organelle. Diseases caused by the 
improper functioning of this organelle include Hurler’s syndrome and Tay-Sachs disease, which arises 
from insufficient hexosaminidase A activity. The targets of phagocytosis are sent to this organelle, which 
uses acid hydrolases to carry out its primary function. For 10 points, name this organelle responsible for the 
digestion of microorganisms and macromolecules. 
ANSWER:  
lysosome 
014-12-71-02114 
15. G. W. F. Hegel interpreted this play as a conflict between the mutually-exclusive ethics of conscience 
and the law. At the end of this play, a messenger announces that both Haemon and Eurydice have stabbed 
themselves. In this play, which is set in the aftermath of  
Seven Against Thebes, 
 Ismene refuses to help her 
sister bury their brother Polynices against the wishes of Creon. For 10 points, name this tragedy by 
Sophocles about the daughter of Oedipus. 
ANSWER:  
Antigone 
080-12-71-02115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 2 
Directed Round 
1A.  Name the objects which were first classified into multiple divisions by Giovanni Cassini, after Galileo 
and Huygens had earlier observed them. 
ANSWER:  
Saturn's ring 
s [do not prompt on or accept \"Saturn\"] 
1B.  Eamon de Valera was the president and prime minister of what country that experienced the 1916 
Easter Rising? 
ANSWER:  
Ireland 
 [or  
Eire 
] 
2A. What rapper collaborated with his album-mates from the GOOD Music label on the album  
Cruel 
Summer 
 in 2012? 
ANSWER:  
Kanye 
 Omari  
West 
 (accept either first or last name) 
2B. In 2012, what MLB team clinched its first playoff berth since 1981, when it played as the Montreal 
Expos? 
ANSWER:  
Washington Nationals 
   (accept city or team name) 
3A.  What Incan ruler defeated his brother Huascar in a civil war only to be conquered by the forces of 
Francisco Pizarro? 
ANSWER:  
Atahualpa 
3B.  What quantity from physics is equal to the product of mass and acceleration? 
ANSWER:  
force 
 [prompt on  ] 
F 
4A.  What German composed the  
Italian Symphony 
 and incidental music to  
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
? 
ANSWER: Felix  
Mendelssohn 
4B.  What author described Septimus Smith's suicide in a novel about Clarissa's party,  
Mrs Dalloway 
? 
ANSWER: Virginia  
Woolf 
 [or Adeline Virginia  
Stephen 
] 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. A thirteen-foot ladder is to be leaned against a twelve-foot 
wall so that the top of the ladder just touches the top of the wall. Assuming the wall forms a right angle 
with the ground, how many feet from the wall's base should the bottom of the ladder be placed? 
ANSWER:  
five feet 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the y-intercept of the line that passes through the points 
(5,11) and (15,17). 
ANSWER:   [or  
8 (0,8) 
] 
6A.  The \"smoking mirror\" Tezcatlipoca is the rival of what feathered serpent in Aztec myth? 
ANSWER:  
Quetzalcoatl 
6B. What author of  
Principles of Political Economy and Taxation 
 theorized comparative advantage and 
spoke out against the Corn Laws? 
ANSWER: David  
Ricardo 
7A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. In terms of a multiple of pi, how much water is needed to fill 
up three-fourths of a sphere with radius 3? 
ANSWER:  
27 pi 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A drawer contains two black socks and three white socks 
unpaired. If two socks are drawn at random, what is the probability they are the same color? 
ANSWER:  
2/5 
 [or  
0.4 
; or  
40 percent 
] 
8A.  What 1990's television show starred Will Smith as a teenager who moves from Philadelphia to live 
with his wealthy Uncle Phil in California? 
ANSWER:  
The  Fresh Prince  of Bel-Air 
8B.  What organelle contains genetic material in the form of chromosomes? 
ANSWER: cell  
nucleus 
9A.  What is the name for the formula of a compound that expresses the simplest ratio between the 
elements? An example is CH2O for glucose. 
ANSWER:  
empirical 
 formula 
9B.  Which English computer scientist lends his name to a test that can determine a machine’s ability to 
exhibit intelligence? 
ANSWER: Alan Mathison  
Turing 
10A.  In what U.S. state would one find Petrified Forest National Park surrounded by the Painted Desert? 
ANSWER:  
Arizona 
10B.  What husband of Zipporah talked to a burning bush and parted the Red Sea as he led the Israelites out 
of Egypt? 
ANSWER:  
Moses 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 2 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The five countries on the UN Security Council, plus Germany, have discussed this program in the 
\"P5+1\" talks. Russia has assisted it by completing an unfinished structure 11 miles south of Bushehr. This 
program has been the target of Operation Olympic Games, one component of which was the Stuxnet worm. 
Benjamin Netanyahu has argued that a \"red line\" must be drawn to prevent its success. For 10 points, name 
this technological program whose success could give Mahmoud Ahmadinejad access to weapons of mass 
destruction. 
ANSWER: the  
Iranian nuclear 
 program 
080-12-71-02117 
2. The speaker of this poem asks its reader to \"mark the doctrine\" under its \"strange verses\" when his eyes 
are covered so that Medusa will not turn him to stone. It describes an ice-encased monster whose three 
heads chew on Brutus, Cassius, and Judas. This poem's narrator sees the inscription, \"Abandon all hope, ye 
who enter here,\" above a gate and is guided by Vergil through nine circles that each punish a different 
brand of sinner. For 10 points, name this first portion of  
The Divine Comedy 
 which describes Dante's 
journey through Hell. 
ANSWER:  
Inferno 
 [prompt on  
The  Divine Comedy 
; prompt on  
La  Divina Commedia 
] 
080-12-71-02118 
3. The intrafusal type of this tissue is connected to the dorsal root ganglia by 1a afferents. The largest 
known protein, titin, is found in this tissue, which contains nicotinic receptors on one end of a junction 
traversed by acetylcholine. This tissue is divided into units called sarcomeres, which contain sliding 
filaments of actin and myosin, and it comes in cardiac, smooth, and skeletal forms. For 10 points, name this 
tissue which contracts when doing work and makes up the biceps. 
ANSWER:  
muscle 
 [or skeletal  
muscle 
 before “skeletal” is read] 
104-12-71-02119 
4. This language once used the  
idu 
 writing system for loanwords, and its p, t, and k consonants can be 
unaspirated, aspirated, or tense-voiced. It has up to seven “speech levels” which change verb endings for 
different degrees of formality. Its mainland form is mutually unintelligible with Jeju island dialect, and its 
24-character writing system, which uses horizontal and vertical lines for vowels and groups syllables in 
blocks, is called  
hangul 
. For 10 points, name this Asian language spoken on a divided peninsula. 
ANSWER:  
Korean 
 [or  
Hangugeo 
; or  
Chosonmal 
] 
104-12-71-02120 
5. When speaking about this event in Indianapolis, Robert Kennedy said his favorite poet was Aeschylus 
(ESK-uh-luss). An iconic photo of this event features three men standing on a balcony, all pointing to the 
upper left as a man lies on the ground. This event took place at Memphis' Lorraine Motel the day after its 
target gave his \"I've Been to the Mountaintop\" speech in support of black sanitation workers. For 10 points, 
name this April 1968 event in which James Earl Ray killed a Nobel Peace Prize-winning civil rights leader. 
ANSWER:  
assassination 
 of Martin Luther  
King 
 Jr. [or  
assassination of MLK 
; accept synonyms for 
\"assassination\" such as  
murder 
 or  
killing 
] 
052-12-71-02121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  6 of 9 
6. This quantity can assume a negative value after population inversion. The mnemonic \"oh be a fine girl 
kiss me\" places stars in decreasing values for this quantity, which is plotted with color against absolute 
magnitude in a Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. This quantity is directly related to the kinetic energy of 
particles and can be found by dividing PV by nR when rearranging the ideal gas law. The Kelvin scale for 
this quantity is based on the concept of absolute zero, its lowest attainable value. For 10 points, name this 
quantity measured in Celsius. 
ANSWER:  
temperature 
 [prompt on  ] 
T 
020-12-71-02122 
7. This author wrote a work in which a man named Soapy ends up at a church and vows to change his life 
after hearing a tune played on the organ. That story by this man ends with Soapy imprisoned in Riker’s 
Island for loitering and is titled “The Cop and the Anthem.” In one of his works, two kidnappers pay a 
boy’s father $250, while in another story, Jim sells his watch to buy a comb for his wife, who has sold her 
hair to buy him a watch chain. For 10 points, name this author of the stories “The Ransom of Red Chief” 
and “The Gift of the Magi.\" 
ANSWER: O.  
Henry 
 [or William Sidney  
Porter 
] 
052-12-71-02123 
8. The Rim Current is a phenomenon in this body of water, which includes Cape Jason and the Strait of 
Kerch. This sea is north of the Pontic Mountains and is connected to the Sea of Marmara via the Bosporus 
Strait. Cities on this sea include Varna, Odessa, and Sevastopol. The Crimean Peninsula juts into this body 
of water, which lies south of the Sea of Azov. For 10 points, name this large sea that borders Turkey, 
Russia, and Ukraine. 
ANSWER:  
Black 
 Sea 
192-12-71-02124 
9. The artist of this work later repainted it with its landscape broken up into small tiles in a work showing 
its \"disintegration.\" In the foreground of this painting, a creature with eyelashes and a tongue sticking out 
of it is draped across some rocks. This painting contains a wooden box with a dead tree growing out of it, 
and it depicts the cliffs of Cape Creus in the background. This painting's most recognizable features are 
three melting clocks. For 10 points, name this surrealist painting by Salvador Dali. 
ANSWER:  
The  Persistence of Memory 
 [or  
La  Persistencia de Memoria 
] 
080-12-71-02125 
10. One theory explaining this force relies on the concepts of confinement and asymptotic freedom. That 
theory of this force is called quantum chromodynamics. The massless particles that mediate this force can 
carry eight different types of color charge and are called gluons. This force is responsible for binding 
protons and neutrons together to form atomic nuclei. For 10 points, name this fundamental force which, as 
its name implies, is the most powerful of the four. 
ANSWER:  
strong 
 force [or  
strong 
 nuclear force] 
014-12-71-02126 
11. This man increased the tariff rates of the Underwood-Simmons Tariff by signing the 
Fordney-McCumber Tariff, and he appointed William Howard Taft to the Supreme Court. This President 
promised a \"return to normalcy.\" During this man's presidency, Harry Sinclair was implicated with Albert 
Fall over bribes for leasing some Wyoming oil fields in the Teapot Dome scandal. For 10 points, identify 
this President whose scandal-ridden time in office was ended by his 1923 death and the succession of 
Calvin Coolidge. 
ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel  
Harding 
189-12-71-02127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  7 of 9 
12. Due to omission of this book’s twenty-first chapter in the United States, that edition ends with the 
sarcastic thought, “I was cured all right.” In this work, Billyboy and Dim become police officers and the 
narrator, whose uses the word “krovvy” for blood, is unable to enjoy music after being subjected to the 
Ludovico technique. This book is largely written in a Russian-based slang called Nadsat. For 10 points, 
name this dystopian novel about Alex and his gang of ultraviolent droogs, by Anthony Burgess. 
ANSWER:  
A  Clockwork Orange 
104-12-71-02128 
13. If an odd function is expressed as a Fourier series, all of its terms contain a type of this function. When 
e is raised to the power of imaginary numbers, this function forms the imaginary part of the result. In any 
triangle, this function of an angle divided by the opposite side is the same for all three angles, according to 
the “law of” this function. This function over a similar one is the tangent function. For 10 points, name this 
function which, for a given angle, is the ratio of the opposite side to the hypotenuse of a right triangle. 
ANSWER:  
sine 
 function 
121-12-71-02129 
14. This work’s main character constantly fantasizes that her suitor Shep Huntleigh will arrive. One 
character was married to Allan Grey, who killed himself after having a homosexual affair. The protagonist 
of this play is first seen arriving at Elysian Fields Avenue and is crushed after her relationship with Mitch 
ends. This play ends with the protagonist taken to an asylum after saying that she has “always depended on 
the kindness of strangers.” For 10 points, name this Tennessee Williams play about Blanche DuBois and 
her brutish brother-in-law, Stanley Kowalski. 
ANSWER:  
A  Streetcar Named Desire 
052-12-71-02130 
15. In biology, oncotic forces are due to the combination of this property and the Gibbs-Donnan effect. The 
standard calculation of this value only applies for solutions that obey Henry's Law and says that this 
quantity is proportional to temperature, molarity, and the van't Hoff factor. For 10 points, name this 
colligative property defined as the pressure necessary to counteract the movement of water across a 
semipermeable membrane. 
ANSWER:  
osmotic pressure 
003-12-71-02131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 2 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This commander forced the signing of the Treaty of Luneville after surprising an Austrian army in the 
Battle of Marengo. He decreed that women be under the control of their husbands with his namesake 
\"code.\" After overthrowing the Directory, this man became First Consul. Though he won great victories 
like Jena (YAY-nuh) and Austerlitz, he was eventually forced into exile on St. Helena after his defeat at 
Waterloo in 1815. For 10 points, name this Corsican conqueror and French emperor. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon 
 I of France [or  
Napoleon 
 Bonaparte; or Napoleon  
Bonaparte 
] 
080-12-71-02132 
2. Identifying the degree of racemization of amino acids is one way to perform this process. The law of 
superposition is a key result used in the relative form of this process, which relies on the relative position of 
layers of sediments. Another form of this process uses tree rings and is dendrochronology. Yet another 
form of this process relies on the fact that the half-life of carbon-14 is about 5700 years and is the 
radiocarbon type. For 10 points, identify this process of determining how far in the past geologic events 
happened. 
ANSWER:  
dating 
066-12-71-02133 
3. This character disturbs the maid Charlotte by beating up Noah Claypole for insulting his dead mother in 
a funeral home. Mr. Brownlow adopts this character, who escapes the abusive crime lord Bill Sikes. He is 
introduced by the Artful Dodger to a seventy-year-old Jewish criminal named Fagin, who lets him into a 
pickpocketing gang. For 10 points, name this child whose request for more gruel gets him kicked out of a 
workhouse, the title orphan of a Charles Dickens novel. 
ANSWER:  
Oliver 
 Twist [or Oliver  
Twist 
] 
104-12-71-02134 
4. This poem informs the reader that \"there are millions of suns left\" and invites the reader, \"Stop this day 
and night with me and you shall possess the origin of all poems.\" One stanza in this poem reads, \"Do I 
contradict myself? Very well then I contradict myself, (I am large, I contain multitudes.)\" Near the 
conclusion of this long poem, the speaker declares, \"I sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world.\" 
For 10 points, name this Walt Whitman poem whose speaker celebrates himself and sings himself. 
ANSWER: \" 
Song of Myself 
\" 
020-12-71-02135 
5. A \"reduced\" form of this quantity is used in solving the two-body problem, and a change in this quantity 
for problems involving atomic nuclei is known as its namesake \"defect\" or \"deficit.\" For a rigid body with 
uniform density, the centroid is the location of the \"center\" of this quantity, and adding the prefix \"bio\" to 
this word gives a term for biological material from organisms. Dividing this quantity by volume gives 
density. For 10 points, identify this quantity measured in kilograms. 
ANSWER:  
mass 
 [prompt on  ] 
m 
189-12-71-02136 
This is a 30-second calculation question. How many real roots does the polynomial 10 x squared - 4 x + 2 
have? 
ANSWER:   [or  
0 none 
] 
Thelonious Monk and Duke Ellington were two jazz musicians who played what keyed instrument? 
ANSWER:  
piano 
forte 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     2     Page  9 of 9 
