National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 3 
Tossups 
1. The highest point in this city is Mount Majura, which is part of a nature park containing such other peaks 
as Mount Ainslie and Mount Mugga Mugga. This city honors the founding of its major university in 1968 
with a music festival called Stonefest. This city was officially “founded” on March 12, 1913, a national 
holiday in the country where this city was located. It contains a Georgian mansion called “The Lodge,” 
which has seen such occupants as Hazel Hawke and Ethel Bruce, along with their more notable husbands. 
Designed by Walter Burley Griffin and his wife, Marion, this city features the “Parliamentary Triangle” 
and was constructed as a compromise choice to settle a political dispute between Melbourne and Sydney. 
For 10 points, name this capital of Australia. 
ANSWER:  
Canberra 
052-09-12-03102 
2. This composer used a solo oboe to tell the stories of characters such as Arethusa, Niobe, and Narcissus in 
his  
Six Metamorphoses after Ovid 
. To commemmorate the twenty-six hundredth anniversary of Japan, the 
Japanese government commissioned a symphony by this composer in 1940, but rejected it because of its 
movements' Christian names. Arvo Part wrote a \"Cantus in memory of\" this composer of  
Sinfonia da 
Requiem 
, who collaborated with W. H. Auden to compose  
Hymn to St Cecilia 
 and the opera  
Paul Bunyan 
. 
He adapted the Rondeau from Purcell's  
Abdelazar 
 to compose a work for children, and used Wilfred Owen 
poems as the basis for his  
War Requiem 
. For 10 points, name this British composer of  
The Young Person’s 
Guide to the Orchestra 
 and  
Peter Grimes 
. 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
Britten 
015-09-12-03103 
3. Deriving this equation in general requires the assumption that normal stresses sum to zero, which is a 
hypothesis named for one of this equation's namesakes; that hypothesis allows the usual right-hand side of 
this equation to be written as the divergence of the stress tensor. Including a magnetostatic body force term 
on the aforementioned right-hand side results in the MHD equations. In the high-deformability limit, this 
equation reduces to the Euler equation. Using the pi theorem on the usual form of this equation yields the 
Reynolds number. For 10 points, name this vector equation that governs the motion of continuous 
Newtonian fluids and that has solvability conditions that are an important open question in physics. 
ANSWER: the  
Navier-Stokes 
 equations 
065-09-12-03104 
4. The speaker of this poem yearns \"to follow knowledge like a sinking star / Beyond the utmost bound of 
human thought\" and observes that though \"the long day wanes,\" \"'Tis not too late to seek a newer world.\" 
In the opening lines of this poem, the speaker voices his frustration at living \"By this still hearth / among 
these barren crags\" and doling \"Unequal laws unto a savage race.\" In the second stanza, the speaker 
introduces his son, who attempts to \"by slow prudence to make mild / A rugged people.\" The final stanza of 
this poem calls for mariners to join the speaker in his quest to \"sail beyond the sunset\" in \"One equal 
temper of heroic hearts.\" Ending with the speaker proclaiming that he is \"strong in will / To strive, to seek, 
to find, and not to yield,\" for 10 points, name this Tennyson poem about an aged hero of a Greek epic. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ulysses 
\" 
004-09-12-03105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  1 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This man's Minister of the Interior was the opera singer Albert Hagelin. One stint by this two year 
defense minister for the Agrarian government was the rounding up of a thousand teachers. This man made 
a 7:32 PM broadcast in NRK just after phoning coastal batteries to stop hunting ships like the Blücher, 
which was sent to invade his country. These actions by this Nasjonal Samling leader led Haakon VII to 
rally opposition to him, culminating in his execution in front of Akershus Fortress in 1945. For 10 points, 
name this Norwegian Nazi collaborator and traitor. 
ANSWER: Vidkun Abraham Lauritz Jonssøn  
Quisling 
020-09-12-03106 
6. Comic characters in this poem include Maljo, an aspiring politician who is known as \"Professor Static\" 
because of his broken syntax during campaign speeches. In the final book of this poem, the title character 
renews the narrator's faith after guiding him to the Pool of Speculation. The second book of this poem 
describes how Afolabe is renamed because of his bravery at the Battle of the Saints. Throughout this poem, 
a character who drives a van called the  
Comet 
 and a character who owns a boat with the misspelled motto 
\"In God We Troust\" fight for an arrogant maid who serves the Plunkett household. In the sixth book of this 
poem, Ma Kilman heals the wound of Philoctete, and Hector's death is mourned by Achille and Helen. For 
10 points, name this epic poem which adapts the  
Iliad 
 to the island of St. Lucia, written by Derek Walcott. 
ANSWER:  
Omeros 
020-09-12-03107 
7. Erasmus was among the first to cast doubt on this figure's authorship of a set of commentaries on the 
Pauline epistles, but he did eulogize Satyrus in his sermon  
On the Death of a Brother 
. In response to the 
resistance posed by Symmachus, this figure wrote a letter outlining the hypocrisies of the pagan priesthood 
and his belief that voluntary virginity was the most honorable kind. This brother of Marcellina opposed the 
rebuilding of a synagogoue by Theodosius, whom he made perform penance after the massacre at 
Thessalonica. The spiritual predecessor to St. Augustine, for 10 points, identify this doctor of the Church 
and Bishop of Milan. 
ANSWER: St.  
Ambrose 
 [or Aurelius  
Ambrosius 
] 
001-09-12-03108 
8. One political cartoon about this man shows him \"slaying the many headed monster,\" one head of which 
wears a top hat with the word \"Penn.\" This president nominated John McLean to the Supreme Court, and 
the case  
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge 
 was heard during his administration. This man was 
accused of bigamy by opponents due to a misunderstanding about a divorce from Lewis Robards by this 
man's wife, Rachel. A deranged English housepainter named Richard Lawrence would have assassinated 
this president had both of Lawrence's pistols not misfired. He won his first term four years after losing to 
John Quincy Adams in the \"corrupt bargain.\" For 10 points, name this seventh President of the United 
States. 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Jackson 
024-09-12-03109 
9. The first successful usage of one of these objects took place in 1900 at Lake Constance. One of these 
objects was destroyed by Egbert Cadbury. A propaganda poster developed by the British shows one of 
these objects being destroyed with the caption “The End of the Baby-Killer,” reflecting its important role in 
the military under Peter Strasser. William Randolph Hearst placed reporter Grace Marguerite on one of 
these objects as it went around the world in 1929 under the command of Dr. Hugo Eckener. The destruction 
of one of these objects was notably described on the radio by Herbert Morrison at Lakehurst, New Jersey. 
For 10 points, name this type of airship named after a German general, the most famous example of which 
is the  
Hindenburg 
. 
ANSWER:  
Zeppelin 
 [prompt on  
airship 
] 
052-09-12-03110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  2 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. A subset of a Polish space with this property has countably many isolated points by the 
Cantor-Bendixson theorem. A set with this property each of whose points is an accumulation point is called 
perfect; in general, sets with this property contain all of their accumulation points. Subsets of Euclidian 
space that are bounded and compact necessarily have this property by the Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem. A 
Set with this property contains all points with neighborhoods partly in the set, and so also contains points 
with neighborhoods partly inside and partly outside; such points are on the boundaries of the set. For 10 
points, name this property exemplified by a range of real numbers including end values and possessed by 
sets whose complements are open. 
ANSWER:  
closed 
 (accept word forms like  
closure 
) 
022-09-12-03111 
11. This thinker argued that American Intellect inhabits the \"colonial mansion,\" in his lecture \"The Genteel 
Tradition in American Philosophy.\" One concept developed by this man stated that philosophy begins with 
the non-conscious creating beliefs \"radically incapable of proof.\" A five-volume work by this man 
examines the title concept in Common Sense, Society, Religion, Art, and Science. He argued that 
philosophy begins \"in  
medias res 
\" at the beginning of a book that claims that while idealism is true, people 
live by the more pragmatic title concept. For 10 points, name this philosopher who wrote  
The Life of 
Reason 
 and  
Skepticism and Animal Faith 
, and also penned the line \"Those who cannot remember the past 
are condemned to repeat it.\" 
ANSWER: George  
Santayana 
030-09-12-03112 
12. Francis Beaufort invented one of these that was used in the Hagelin M-209 machine. An early digraphic 
one was invented by Charles Wheatstone. Johan Trithemius wrote a tract about the use of these that is 
seemingly a discourse on magic. Marian Rajewski using a cyclometer to analyze one in his  
Steganographia 
. Kasiski undermined one created by Vigenere in the 15th century. Thomas Phelippes managed to defeat 
one used by Anthony Babington while working on behalf of Francis Walsingham. Magic, Room 47, and 
Bletchly Park were all facilities dedicated to cracking them. For 10 points, name these constructs including 
Purple; Enigma; and, in modern times, RSA. 
ANSWER:  
cipher 
s (accept  
cryptograph 
s or secret  
code 
s or close equivalents) 
003-09-12-03113 
13. An open letter written to this leader describing a disenchanting visit to his lands was authored by 
George Washington Williams. E.D. Morel, helped found a reform association targeting one of the holdings 
of this leader, whose poor rule of that location led to the issuing of the Casement Report. Those lands had 
been gained for this man after he sent Henry Morton Stanley to negotiate with tribal chiefs. This man 
created an army for that land called the Force Publique, which took hands if rubber quotas were not met. 
For 10 points, name this ruler whose poor treatment of natives forced him in 1908 to give up rule of the 
Congo to his kingdom, Belgium. 
ANSWER:  
Leopold II 
 of Belgium [prompt on  
Leopold 
] 
023-09-12-03114 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  3 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. The protagonist of a novel by this author has a vision of St. Francis transforming his wooden flower 
into a real one. In that novel by this author, Helen loses her virginity to the law student Nat Pearl and is 
raped by the protagonist after he saves her from Ward Minogue. In addition to writing a novel in which 
Frank Alpine works for a Jewish grocery, this author created a character who accepts thirty five thousand 
dollars from Judge Banner in order to marry Memo Paris. That character is shot by Harriet Bird after 
striking out the Whammer, and nearly leads the New York Knights to the pennant with his bat Wonderboy. 
For 10 points, name this author of  
The Assistant 
 who wrote about the baseball player Roy Hobbs in  
The 
Natural 
. 
ANSWER: Bernard  
Malamud 
015-09-12-03115 
15. Though he was not Brazilian, this composer used a notoriously untranslatable Portuguese word for a 
feeling of futile nostalgia in a set of twelve piano suites. Those \"Saudades do Brasil\" were written in 
collaboration with the French minister to Brazil, Paul Claudel, who also collaborated with this composer on 
a ballet that uses a whip and a whistle in the percussion section, the Amazon-set  
Man and His Desire. 
 An 
encounter with the Billy Arnold Jazz Band led to another of his ballets, for which Fernand Leger designed 
the sets. In that ballet, Mzamé, Mebère, and Nkwa emerge from a piano-and-drum hailstorm, and in the 
final tableau, \"The Man and Woman Kiss.\" For 10 points, name this member of Les Six who used jazz 
forms and African myths for his ballet  
The Creation of the World. 
ANSWER: Darius  
Milhaud 
019-09-12-03116 
16. One of these daughters of Thaumas and Electra gave birth to the immortal horses Bailus and Xanthus 
after sleeping with Zephyrus. They were driven to the Strophades by Calais and Zetes, who spared them 
because of pleas made by their sister Iris. These beings, whose members included Podarges, Aello, 
Ocypete, and Celaeno, were sent by Zeus to torment a figure with too much prophetic power, which they 
did by snatching and befouling his food before he finished eating. The Argonauts learned the location of 
the Sympaglades after freeing King Phineus from, for 10 points, what half women, half birds from Greek 
myth? 
ANSWER:  
harpies 
 [or  
harpy 
iae] 
004-09-12-03117 
17. This country was home a group of painters known as the Wanderers. One artist from this country 
depicted a maid holding a doorknob and old woman rising in surprise as her gaunt son returns from 
political exile in the painting  
They Did Not Expect Him 
. An artist from this country wrote the treatise  
Concerning the Spiritual in Art 
, and another created a poster in which the word “KLINOM” appears above 
the title geometric figure, which is \"beating\" the \"whites.\" This country was home to an artist who cast his 
lot with the  
Donkey's Tail 
 and  
Jack of Diamonds 
 movements before painting  
White on White 
 and founding 
Suprematism. El Lissitzky is from this country, which spawned the movement of Constructivism. For 10 
points, name this country, home to Kasimir Malevich, Ilya Repin, and Wassily Kandinsky. 
ANSWER:  
Russia 
 [or the  
Russian Federation 
; do not accept or prompt on \"Soviet Union\" or \"USSR\"] 
001-09-12-03118 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  4 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. An example of this functionality used in buffers includes a methyl group trisubstituted with 
hydroxymethyl units and is commonly called \"tris\". The APUD system is used to create biogenic types of 
these compounds, which include substance P and epinephrine. A test for these compounds performed with 
sulfonyl chloride is named for Hinsberg. The exhaustive methylation of this functionality results in an 
elimination reaction and is named for Hofmann. Aromatic examples of this functional group include 
aniline, and alkyl versions often smell like fish. For 10 points, name this functionality that features three 
single bonds from nitrogen. 
ANSWER:  
amine 
s 
022-09-12-03119 
19. After it was published, this book was attacked by the pamphlet \"The Desolate Year.\" This book argues 
that \"the 'control of nature' is a phrase conceived in arrogance, born of the Neanderthal age of biology and 
philosophy\" in its final chapter, \"The Other Road.\" Its third chapter criticizes the makers of \"elixirs of 
death,\" and its first chapter, \"A Fable for Tomorrow,\" describes an idyllic town attacked by a \"strange 
blight,\" resulting in the destruction of birds. Upon being published in 1962, this book touched off a storm 
of criticism from companies like Cyanamid and Monsanto. For 10 points, name this book which argued 
that DDT and other pesticides destroy the ecosystem, written by Rachel Carson. 
ANSWER:  
Silent Spring 
004-09-12-03120 
20. In a play by this author, one character recalls sneaking into a \"Turkish Pavillion\" that turns out to be an 
outhouse, and nearly dying after falling asleep in some alder leaves. Another of his plays is partly set in 
Fingal's Cave, and includes a character who plays Bach's  
Toccata in Fugue 
 after a prologue that sees 
Indra's daughter incarnated as Agnes. This author wrote another play in which an apparition of a Milkmaid 
appears to Arkenholz, who rejects the teachings of the sinister wheelchair bound Hummel. He also wrote a 
play in which the valet Jean brings a razor with which the title character intends to commit suicide. For 10 
points, name this author of  
A Dream Play The Ghost Sonata 
,  , and  
Miss Julie 
. 
ANSWER: Johan August  
Strindberg 
026-09-12-03121 
21. The molecule central to this disorder can be \"conjugated\" or \"unconjugated\" depending on whether it is 
attached to glucuronic acid. Large gallstones block a duct and cause this disorder in Mirizzi's syndrome. 
Gilbert's syndrome causes a mild form of this disorder, which is more serious in Crigler-Najjar syndrome. 
The first symptom of this disorder is often scleral icterus, in which the conjunctiva of the eye is discolored. 
For 10 points, name this disorder that stems from the liver producing too much bilirubin and causes yellow 
skin. 
ANSWER:  
jaundice 
 [accept  
icterus 
 before read; or  
hyperbilirubinemia 
 before \"bilirubin;\" prompt on  
heightened bilirubin 
 or equivalents before \"bilirubin\"] 
026-09-12-03122 
22. Simon Petluria allied with Josef Pilsudski to attack this city in 1920. The history of a medieval kingdom 
named for this city is detailed in  
The Primary Chronicle 
. This city was the capital of a state ruled by 
Yaroslav the Wise and Vladimir the Great. On September 29th and 30th in 1941, the Nazis gunned down 
over thirty thousand members of this city's Jewish population in a ravine. The site of the Babi Yar 
massacre, this capital city was the center of a movement to overthrow Victor Yanukovych and elect Viktor 
Yuschenko, the Orange Revolution. For 10 points, name this city on the Dnieper River, the capital of 
Ukraine. 
ANSWER:  
Kiev 
004-09-12-03123 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  5 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
23. In one of this author's novels, a pastor takes a blind girl to a concert at Neuchatel to teach her about 
colors, but when that girl, Gertrude, recovers her vision, she commits suicide because the world is not as 
perfect as the title piece of music. In another of this author's novels, the protagonist joins Alcide in 
poaching from his estate, La Morinière, after being encouraged to live in the moment by his friend 
Ménalque. This author defended homosexuality in  
Corydon 
, and wrote a novel partially set in Biskra, 
where Michel suffers from tuberculosis and becomes fascinated by young Arab boys. For 10 points, name 
this French novelist of  
The Pastoral Symphony 
 and  
The Immoralist 
. 
ANSWER: Andre  
Gide 
004-09-12-03124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  6 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 3 
Bonuses 
1. Le Chatelier’s principle predicts that increasing the temperature of this type of reaction drives the 
equilibrium towards the reactants. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of chemical reaction that releases heat. 
ANSWER:  
exothermic 
 reaction 
[10] Hammond’s Postulate states that in an exothermic reaction, this high energy state will more closely 
resemble the reactants than the products. 
ANSWER:  
transition 
 state 
[10] The transition state with the highest energy is found in this slowest step of a chemical reaction that 
determines its overall speed. 
ANSWER:  
rate determining 
 step [or  
rate limiting 
 step; or  
RDS 
] 
064-09-12-03201 
2. Discussions of the \"transcendental analytic\" and \"transcendental dialectic\" make up this work's \"Doctrine 
of the Elements\" section. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this philosophical work that examines a priori synthetic propositions. 
ANSWER: the  
 Critique of Pure Reason 
[10] This author of  
Critique of Pure Reason 
 discussed the categorical imperative in  
The Metaphysics of 
Morals 
. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
[10] This Kantian idea described in  
Critique of Pure Reason 
 refers to sense-independent perceptions or 
concepts. It is contrasted with phenomenon. 
ANSWER:  
noumenon 
 [or  
thing in itself 
; or  
ding an sich 
] 
032-09-12-03202 
3. Bernard Mandeville's  
The Fable of the Bees 
 is often cited as an early elucidation of this economic 
concept, which was experienced by the Capital Hill Babysitting Co-op when scrip was hoarded and not 
spent. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this phenomenon in which despite increased frugality, savings remain constant and income 
declines. 
ANSWER:  
paradox of thrift 
[10] The paradox of thrift usually occurs during these economic conditions. Julius Shiskin suggestion 
defining them as two or more consecutive quarters in which GDP is down. 
ANSWER:  
recession 
[10] The Capital Hill Babysitting Co-op has also been used to explain this situation. They occur when the 
short term nominal interest rate is zero and the demand for money becomes infinitely inelastic. Many 
blamed the Japanese economic troubles of the 1990s on this situation. 
ANSWER:  
liquidity trap 
064-09-12-03203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  7 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. This goddess's cult was centered at Dendera. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this goddess who convinced Ra to reconvene a divine tribunal by exposing her genitals to him. 
She was often depicted wearing a menat and holding a sistrum. 
ANSWER:  
Hathor 
 [or  
Het-Hert 
; or  
Hetheru 
] 
[10] Hathor's name means \"house of\" this god, who was sometimes worshipped as Hathor's husband. He 
avenged the death of his father Osiris by battling Set, and was usually depicted with the head of a falcon. 
ANSWER:  
Horus 
 [or  
Heru 
; or  
Hor 
; or  
Harendotes 
; or  
Har-nedj-itef 
; or  
Har-Pa-Neb-Taui 
] 
[10] This destroyer goddess and aspect of Hathor was known as the \"eye of Ra.\" She only stopped killing 
people when Ra disguised beer as blood, causing this goddess to drink ravenously and become drunk. 
ANSWER:  
Sekhmet 
004-09-12-03204 
5. Strike-slip versions of these structures can move horizontally. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these rock fractures that undergo relative movement. 
ANSWER:  
fault 
s (or  
fault line 
s) 
[10] This term refers to faults that have an inclined fracture with vertical movement. Depending on their 
angle and motion, they can be normal, reverse, or thrust. 
ANSWER:  
dip-slip 
 faults 
[10] This is a block of rock pushed down between two faults, as contrasted with rock that is elevated in the 
same way, which is known as a horst. 
ANSWER: a  
graben 
001-09-12-03205 
6. Answer questions about a 19th-century conflict in the Midwestern United States, for 10 points each. 
[10] This war in 1832 pitted Sauk and Fox Native Americans against Illinois militiamen and began with a 
Native American victory at Stillman’s Run. 
ANSWER:  
Black Hawk 
 War 
[10] Before the war, this Superintendent of Indian Affairs signed a treaty with the Sauk and Fox that Black 
Hawk did not sanction. A former explorer, he previously worked with Lewis and Sacagawea. 
ANSWER: William  
Clark 
[10] The Americans used the Indian Creek Massacre to justify their own massacre at this final battle of the 
Black Hawk War, which saw forces on the steamboat  
Warrior 
 in action. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Bad Axe 
 [or  
Bad Axe 
 Massacre] 
034-09-12-03206 
7. The monk Eadfrith probably created this island's namesake gospels for St. Cuthbert. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this island off the coast of England, whose monastery was looted by Vikings in 793, terrifying 
the Anglo-Saxons. It is sometimes called Holy Island. 
ANSWER:  
Lindisfarne 
[10] At the time of the Viking raid, Lindisfarne was controlled by this Anglo-Saxon kingdom, which was 
bordered by Mercia to the south. Created by the union of Bernicia and Deira, its king Oswiu accepted 
Christianity at the 664 Synod of Whitby. 
ANSWER:  
Northumbria 
[10] This Northumbrian monk's  
Ecclesiastical History of the English People 
 is a valuable source of 
Anglo-Saxon history. After his death, he became known as \"the venerable.\" 
ANSWER:  
Bede 
004-09-12-03207 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  8 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Max Bruch composed three of these works, although only the first, his opus twenty-six in G minor, is 
part of the standard repertory. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of musical work for a certain solo instrument and orchestra. The fairly difficult one 
composed by Tchaikovsky includes a second movement Canzonetta, and is his opus thirty-five. 
ANSWER:  
violin concerto 
s [prompt on partial answer] 
[10] Vivaldi's  
The Four Seasons 
 begins with this violin concerto, whose first movement opens with the 
violin depicting the song of birds. Its final movement depicts nymphs and shepherds dancing during the 
title season. 
ANSWER:  
Spring 
 [or La  
primavera 
; or Opus  , number  ] 
8 1 
[10] This member of the Second Viennese School composed a violin concerto dedicated \"to the memory of 
an angel\" as well as the six-movement  
Lyric Suite 
 written using the twelve-tone row. 
ANSWER: Alban  
Berg 
004-09-12-03208 
9. This dynasty saw a revolt in Vietnam led by the Trung Sisters that was put down by Ma Yuan. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this Chinese dynasty founded by Liu Bang, which also saw the Five Pecks of Rice and Yellow 
Turban rebellions. It ultimately saw a breakdown of unity which saw the formation of the Three Kingdoms. 
ANSWER:  
Han 
 Dynasty 
[10] This Confucian scholar and Han official usurped power in 9 CE, founding the Xin Dynasty, which 
only saw one ruler 
ANSWER:  
Wang Mang 
[10] Part of Wang Mang’s reforms was an attempt to bring back this land distribution method from the 
Zhou dynasty. In it, a piece of land is divided into nine parts--the outer parts are private, the center part is 
communal. It takes its name because the shape resembles the Chinese character for a certain word. 
ANSWER:  
Well Field 
 System 
052-09-12-03209 
10. The Yagi-Uda version of this is a variant of the simple Hertzian dipole type. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these devices designed to receive and transmit electromagnetic waves. 
ANSWER:  
antenna 
s 
[10] This is the ratio of an antenna's intensity in a given direction to that due to an isotropic antenna of the 
same power. In general, this term refers to the signal increase from an amplifier or other element. 
ANSWER: the  
gain 
[10] Common approaches for creating these devices for directing electromagnetic radiation include hollow 
metal pipes and dielectrics. One common example is optical fibers. 
ANSWER:  
waveguide 
s 
001-09-12-03210 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  9 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. Thomas Maginn jealously attempts to separate Edward and Katrina Dougherty in this author's novel  
The Flaming Corsage 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author who set his novels  
Legs 
 and  
Ironweed 
 in his hometown of Albany, New York. 
ANSWER: William  
Kennedy 
[10] Three of Kennedy's novels focus on this Albany family, whose members include Billy, a gambler who 
becomes mixed up in the kidnapping of Charlie McCall, and Francis, who becomes a bum out of remorse 
for the death of his infant son Gerald. 
ANSWER:  
Phelan 
s 
[10] This nineteenth century American author used frontier New York as the setting for his novel  
The 
Pioneers 
, part of his five-book series about Natty Bumppo. 
ANSWER: James Fenimoore  
Cooper 
004-09-12-03211 
12. The title page of this narrative poem includes dedicatory verses in ancient Greek. This \"tragedy\" begins 
with a monologue in which the Chief Huntsman prays to Artemis. For 10 points each, 
[10] Name this play in verse that includes a long speech by Meleager about his journey to Colchis. In this 
work, God is called \"The supreme evil\" and \"The Lord of love and loathing and of strife.\" 
ANSWER:  
Atalanta in Calydon 
[10] This friend of the Pre-Raphealites wrote  
Poems and Ballads 
 and  
Atalanta in Calydon 
. 
ANSWER: Algernon Charles  
Swinburne 
[10] Swinburne quotes this playwright's  
Meleager 
 on the title page of  
Atalanta in Calydon 
. This dramatist 
wrote about an angry mother in Medea as well the plays  
Trojan Woman 
 and  
The Bacchae 
. 
ANSWER:  
Euripides 
063-09-12-03212 
13. He designed tombs for both Clement XIII and Clement XIV and showed the title figure kneeling in 
prayer in his monument to Pius VI. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this neoclassical sculptor of  
Psyche Revived by Cupid’s Kiss 
 who also depicted a newly minted 
Borghese as the lounging  
Venus Victrix 
. 
ANSWER: Antonio  
Canova 
[10] Canova treated a scene previously covered by Cellini in his depiction of this mythological figure with 
the head of Medusa. 
ANSWER:  
Perseus 
 [or  
Perseus  with/holding the Head of Medusa 
] 
[10] Canova also depicted this person holding a statue of Nike in his right hand and a staff in his left hand 
as \"Mars the Peacemaker.\" 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon 
 I Bonaparte [prompt on  
Bonaparte 
] 
064-09-12-03213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  10 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. Controversy about this political event involves its usage of the word “Negro.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this political process whose “National Day” this year was April 1, 2010. It is held every ten 
years and is used to determine congressional representation and federal funding rates. 
ANSWER: U.S.  
Census 
[10] This conservative congresswoman from Minnesota has said that the census asks too many “personal 
questions,” promising to only fill out number of people in her household. While running for re-election in 
2008, she urged for the investigation of “anti-American” Congressmen. 
ANSWER: Michele  
Bachmann 
[10] Bill Sparkman, a census worker in this Southern state, was found dead with the word “fed” written on 
his chest. While originally thought to be a hate crime against census workers, it was later revealed it was a 
suicide made to look like a murder to avoid the loss of insurance benefits. 
ANSWER:  
Kentucky 
052-09-12-03214 
15. One poem of this language concerns a flower who dreamily awaits the night because the moon is her 
lover. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this language of \"The Lotos Flower\" which was also used in the works  
Atta Troll 
 and  
Die 
Lorelei 
 by Heinrich Heine. This modern language was used in earlier forms by Wolfram von Eschenbach. 
ANSWER:  
German 
[10] This German author's works include a story about the Marquise of O trying to determine the father of 
her unborn child and another about Jeronimo and Josephe being saved by an earthquake in Chile. 
ANSWER: Bernd Heinrich Wilhelm von  
Kleist 
[10] This German writer was infatuated with classical Greece, creating such works as  
Hyperion 
 and the 
play  
The Death of Empedocles. 
ANSWER: Johann Christian Friedrich  
Hölderlin 
023-09-12-03215 
16. This substance is poured into the hands of an initiate five times for drinking, is poured into the initiate's 
eyes five times, and poured onto the initiate's head five times. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this substance made from water and crystallized sugar by the five Panj Pyara present at the 
ceremony. 
ANSWER:  
nectar 
 [or  
Amrit 
] 
[10] Present at the initiation ceremony, the Adi Granth is the eleventh of these figures as declared by 
Gobind Singh. Another one of these figures, Arjun Dev, compiled the Adi Granth. 
ANSWER:  
guru 
s 
[10] After the ceremony is complete, the initiate becomes part of this group started by Guru Gobind Singh, 
whose members agree to always carry the Five K's with them. 
ANSWER:  
Khalsa 
023-09-12-03216 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  11 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. Name these places which fought against Roman control, for 10 points each. 
[10] This city came to prominence during the reign of Aurelian, when its Roman client-king Odaenathus 
reconquered lands from Persia. Odaenathus's widow Zenobia declared independence and ruled over Syria 
and Egypt for several years in the 270s. 
ANSWER:  
Palmyra 
[10] The siege of Alesia, where Julius Caesar defeated Vercingetorix, ended the war for control of this 
region, corresponding to present-day France. 
ANSWER:  
Gaul 
[10] Marius and Sulla jockeyed to receive the credit for defeating Jugurtha, a ruler of this North African 
kingdom who violated the terms of a suzerainity agreement with Rome by killing several political rivals 
and Italian merchants. 
ANSWER:  
Numidia 
019-09-12-03217 
18. Name these abstract expressionists, for 10 points each. 
[10] This husband of Lee Krasner is known for his chaotic works like  
No. 5, 1948 
 and  
Lavender Mist 
, 
which use his trademark \"dripping\" technique. 
ANSWER: Paul Jackson  
Pollock 
[10] Pollock influenced the career of this woman who painted  
The Bay 
 and  
Mountains and Sea 
, which used 
her \"soak-stain\" technique. 
ANSWER: Helen  
Frankenthaler 
[10] Frankenthaler was the wife of this artist of  
Mallarme’s Swan 
 and a series of works inspired after 
hearing Andre Malraux speak in San Francisco in 1937, the  
Elegy to the Spanish Republic 
 series. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Motherwell 
064-09-12-03218 
19. This man participated in the 1933 “Revolt of the Sergeants.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who ousted the government of Gerardo Machado and ruled for sixteen years, allegedly 
in cooperation with Mafia gambling interests. 
ANSWER: Fulgencio  
Batista 
[10] This revolutionary met Castro in Mexico City and helped him return to the island in 1956 to begin the 
anti-Batista struggle. He would later serve as Cuba’s “economic czar” under Castro before leaving Cuba to 
participate in more conflicts. 
ANSWER: Ernesto “Che”  
Guevara 
 or  
Che 
[10] Before ending up in Mexico, Castro participated in an attack on the Moncada Barracks in Santiago de 
Cuba. In his trial afterwards, Castro made this famous speech in which he declared the illegality of 
Batista’s regime. It takes its name from the final sentence which comes after the defiant statement 
“Condemn me, it does not matter.” 
ANSWER:  
“History Will Absolve Me” 
 speech 
052-09-12-03219 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  12 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. For 10 points each, answer the following about the C-Value enigma. 
[10] The C-Value enigma states that the complexity of an organism is in no way related to this other value. 
ANSWER:  
genome size 
 [or the  
amount of DNA 
 in an organism's genome; or other clear-knowledge 
equivalents; prompt on  
C-Value 
] 
[10] One explanation for some parts of the C-value enigma is the ubiquity of this condition, in which an 
organism has more than two sets of sets of chromosomes, in plants. 
ANSWER:  
polyploidy 
[10] In humans, polyploidy is found in a small percentage of these cells, which are found in a certain 
abdominal organ. They synthesize all blood plasma proteins except for immunoglobulins, store and degrade 
glycogen, and convert ammonia into urea. 
ANSWER:  
hepatocyte 
s [or  
parenchymal liver 
 cells; prompt on  
liver 
 cells; prompt on  
parenchymal 
 cells] 
003-09-12-03220 
21. This author included his World War I novel  
August, 1914 
 in his  
The Red Wheel 
 series. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this Russian author who wrote about Gulag life in  
 One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich 
. 
ANSWER: Aleksandr Isayevich  
Solzhenitsyn 
[10] In this Solzhenitsyn novel, Oleg Kostoglotov meets Vera Gangart while serving a “perpetual exile” in 
the title Uzbek location. 
ANSWER:  
Cancer Ward 
 [or  
 Rakovy Korpus 
] 
[10] This Ilya Ehrenburg novel also depicted Soviet life. In it, Dmitri Koroteev has a shot at Lena when her 
factory director husband Zhuravlev moves away. 
ANSWER:  
The  Thaw 
 [or  
Ottepel 
] 
015-09-12-03221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 3     Page  13 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
