VHSL Regionals 2012 
Round 1 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This novel was critiqued in the essays “Many Thousands Gone” and “Everybody’s Protest Novel” by 
James Baldwin. Those essays appeared in a collection titled for this novel. The protagonist of this novel is 
defended by the Communist lawyer Boris A. Max in a trial where it is demonstrated that he raped and 
murdered Bessie Mears. While working as a chauffeur, the protagonist accidentally smothers to death the 
white girl Mary Dalton. For 10 points, name this novel about Bigger Thomas written by Richard Wright. 
ANSWER:  
Native Son 
014-12-55-01101 
2. The explorer Diego Velazquez de Cuellar established the first European settlement in this country at 
Baracoa. The Panopticon prison Presidio Modelo is located on this country’s island Isle of Youth, which is 
separated from the mainland by the Gulf of Batabano. This country is just north of the Cayman Islands and 
Jamaica. The Windward Passage separates this country from Haiti by fewer than ninety miles at its 
Guantanamo region. For 10 points, name this Caribbean island nation, long ruled by the Castro family. 
ANSWER:  
Cuba 
015-12-55-01102 
3. In this story, a gigantic clock chimes every hour, creating “a brief discontent,” even though everyone 
vows not to react the next time. A location in this story has seven rooms, which are all decorated in 
different colors, with the last room’s scarlet light creating “a deep blood color.” This story ends with the 
title entity holding “illimitable domain over all” after the main character and his revelers all die. For 10 
points, name this Edgar Allan Poe short story about Prince Prospero attempting to evade the title plague. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Masque of the Red Death 
\" 
052-12-55-01103 
4. This film begins with a woman embezzling money to marry her lover Sam Loomis. The end of this film 
has Dr. Fred Richmond analyzing a character who has a hobby of stuffing dead birds of prey. The detective 
Milton Arbogast is slain by the antagonist, a disturbed man who dresses like his deceased mother. In this 
movie’s most infamous scene, Marion Crane is stabbed to death while screeching violins play on the 
soundtrack. For 10 points, name this Alfred Hitchcock movie in which the murderous Norman Bates kills a 
woman in her hotel room shower. 
ANSWER:  
Psycho 
052-12-55-01104 
5. This man's predecessor may have been smothered with a pillow by Naevius (NYE-vee-uss) Sutorius 
Macro, whom this man later had executed along with his nephew Gemellus (GEH-meh-luss). According to 
Cassius Dio, during one military campaign, this man ordered his troops to collect seashells. This man 
allegedly planned to appoint his horse Incitatus (INN-cuh-tah-tuss) as a consul. This successor of Tiberius 
was assassinated by Praetorian guards and succeeded by Claudius. For 10 points, name this Roman 
emperor whose nickname means \"little boot.\" 
ANSWER:  
Caligula 
 [or  
Gaius Caesar Germanicus 
] 
142-12-55-01105 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  1 of 10 
6. In one of this author’s plays, the producer Sturdyvant stabs the pianist Toledo in a fit of rage. In another 
play by this author of  
Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom 
, Rose’s husband refuses to let their son Cory accept a 
football scholarship. This creator of the garbage man Troy Maxson also wrote a play in which Berniece 
refuses to let Boy Willie throw out the title musical instrument. For 10 points, name this African American 
playwright of  
Fences 
 and  
The Piano Lesson. 
ANSWER: August  
Wilson 
 [or Frederick August  
Kittel 
] 
079-12-55-01106 
7. A coup named for Kapp targeted this government, which was opposed by the Spartacist League. This 
government gave up territorial claims against the USSR in the Treaty of Rapallo. The Dawes Plan was an 
attempt to collect reparations from this government, which was plagued by massive inflation. Paul von 
Hindenburg was President of this government, which was supplanted by Hitler's Third Reich. For 10 
points, name this German \"republic\" that lasted for fourteen years after the end of World War I. 
ANSWER:  
Weimar 
 Republic [prompt on  
Germany 
] 
079-12-55-01107 
8. This quantity is proportional to the temperature cubed at low temperatures according to the Debye 
model, which was corrected by Einstein. This quantity is three times the gas constant divided by molar 
mass at high temperatures according to the Dulong-Petit law. A calorimeter can be used to find this 
quantity, which is one calorie, or 4.184 joules, for water. For 10 points, name this amount of heat needed to 
raise the temperature of a substance by one degree Celsius. 
ANSWER:  
specific heat 
 capacity [or specific  
heat capacity 
] 
079-12-55-01108 
9. During this monarch's reign, the \"Ministry of All the Talents\" formed during the Grenville ministry. This 
leader's Prime Minister Spencer Perceval was assassinated. The Gordon Riots were anti-Catholic riots 
during his reign, which occurred during the tumultuous ministry of Lord North. The Prince of Wales acted 
as regent in his later years due to a mental illness that earned him a reputation as a mad king. For 10 points, 
name this British king who reigned during the American Revolutionary War. 
ANSWER:  
George III 
 of Great Britain [or  
George William Frederick 
; or  
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich 
; 
prompt on  
George 
] 
052-12-55-01109 
10. The smallest cyclic alkane has this number of carbon atoms. The kinetic energy of a gas is given by one 
half this number times the absolute temperature times Boltzmann's constant. This is the van't Hoff factor 
for calcium chloride, and it is also the bond order of nitrogen gas. Aluminum ions commonly have this 
charge, which is also the number of oxygen atoms in a molecule of ozone. For 10 points, name this number 
of hydrogen atoms in ammonia which is also the atomic number of lithium. 
ANSWER: positive  
 three 
127-12-55-01110 
11. An official language in one region of this country is Aranese. The south of this country speaks a 
dialogue with \"seseo,\" a merging of the \"th\" and \"s\" sounds. A group which speaks a language isolate in 
this country is represented by the militant \"Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (yoo-SKAH-dee tah 
ah-ska-tah-SOO-nuh).\" The only non-Romance language spoken in this country is common in Biscay and 
Bilbao. For 10 points, name this country which has such official languages as Basque and Catalan, which is 
spoken in Barcelona. 
ANSWER:  
Spain 
 [or  
Espana 
] 
052-12-55-01111 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  2 of 10 
12. Sodium borohydride (bohr-roh-HIGH-dride) and lithium aluminum hydride are two compounds used to 
perform this type of reaction. Elements like lithium and sodium with low ionization energies act as good 
agents for this type of reaction. In an electrochemical cell, this reaction occurs at the cathode. Oxygen gas 
undergoes this type of reaction when it reacts with hydrogen gas to form water. For 10 points, name this 
type of reaction in which a species gains electrons, the opposite of oxidation. 
ANSWER:  
reduction 
 reaction 
064-12-55-01112 
13. One leader of this organization fell after failing to stop the Orange Riot; that figure was replaced by 
\"Honest John\" Kelly. Another member of this group, a promoter of \"honest graft,\" was named George 
Washington Plunkett. Its first leader was William Mooney. Named for a leader of the Lenape 
(leh-NAH-pay) tribe, this organization's most notorious leader was opposed by cartoonist Thomas Nast, 
who depicted this organization as a tiger. For 10 points, name this New York political machine led by Boss 
Tweed. 
ANSWER:  
Tammany 
 Hall 
048-12-55-01113 
14. One hypothesis regarding this disease states that it is caused by amyloid (AH-mih-loid) beta deposits. 
Another hypothesis regarding it is called the “cholinergic” (koh-lin-URGE-ick) hypothesis which proposes 
this disease is caused by a deficiency in acetylcholine (ay-ceet-al-col-leen), a neurotransmitter. Coming in 
early and late onset varieties, this disease tends to create “neurofibrillary (nur-oh-FIB-rih-larry) tangles” 
which clog up nerve cells within brain tissue. For 10 points, name this form of dementia, commonly found 
in senior citizens. 
ANSWER:  
Alzheimer’s 
 disease 
052-12-55-01114 
15. This hormone is inactivated by the enzyme 11-beta-HSD2, and its synthesis relies on 11-beta 
hydroxylase (high-DROX-ih-lase) acting on a derivative of cholesterol. This hormone and derivatives of it 
are used to suppress the immune system, and it is released in response to ACTH release from the pituitary 
gland. This hormone, along with androgens and aldosterone (al-DAH-steh-rone), is released from the 
adrenal cortex. For 10 points, name this hormone which like adrenaline is released in response to stress. 
ANSWER:  
cortisol 
048-12-55-01115 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2012 
Round 1 
Directed Round 
1A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the surface area of a cube with side length 2 units? 
ANSWER:   square units 
24 
1B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. List the sample space of an experiment in which a fair coin is 
tossed twice. 
ANSWER:  
{heads, heads; heads, tails; tails, heads; tails, tails} 
 [or  
{HH, HT, TH, TT} 
; or other answers 
unambiguously referring to whether the coin comes up heads or tails on each flip; do not accept or prompt 
on partial answer] 
2A.  Two of what type of animal report news of the world to Odin? 
ANSWER:  
Raven 
2B.  What formula used to factor polynomials of degree two is defined \"x equals the quantity negative b 
plus or minus the square root of b squared minus 4ac all over the quantity 2a?\" 
ANSWER:  
quadratic 
 formula 
3A.  What American author wrote the Christmas story \"The Gift of the Magi\"? 
ANSWER: O.  
Henry 
 [or William Sydney  
Porter 
] 
3B.  What part of the psyche was proposed by Sigmund Freud as controlling basic drives and guided by the 
pleasure principle? 
ANSWER:  
id 
4A.  Examples of what high male voice part include the roles of Rodolfo in  
La Boheme 
 and Pinkerton in  
Madama Butterfly? 
ANSWER:  
tenor 
4B.  What leader in the Non-Aligned Movement was also the first Prime Minister of India? 
ANSWER: Jawaharlal  
Nehru 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the sum of the first fourteen integers? 
ANSWER:  
105 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the cosecant of 210 degrees? 
ANSWER:  
-2 
6A.  Papers by this man on Brownian motion and the photoelectric effect were published in 1905, his 
\"Annus Mirabilis.\" Who was this scientist that also wrote a paper on special relativity that same year? 
ANSWER: Albert  
Einstein 
6B.  Name the second-longest river in South America, which forms the Rio de la Plata with the Paraguay 
and Uruguay rivers and is stopped by the massive Itaipu (eet-EYE-poo) Dam. 
ANSWER:  
Parana 
 River 
7A.  The only movement from  
Carnival of the Animals 
 that Saint-Saens allowed performances of during 
his lifetime depicted what animal? 
ANSWER:  
The  Swan 
 [or  
Le  cygne 
] 
7B.  In January 2011, what son of a former Michigan governor was criticized by his primary opponents for 
engineering layoffs and firm closures while an executive at Bain Capital? 
ANSWER: Willard Mitt  
Romney 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  4 of 10 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Solve for x: quantity (x+2) over the quantity (x +3x+2) 
2 
equals -1. 
ANSWER:  
empty set 
 [or the answer  
does not exist 
; or other obvious equivalents stating that no number 
satisfies the equation; do not accept \"-2\"] 
8B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If the range of a set of five numbers is 8 and the median is 
17, then what is the smallest possible mean for this set of numbers? Express your answer as a decimal to 
the tenths place. 
ANSWER:  
13.8 
 [the set is {9, 9, 17, 17, 17}] 
9A. What figure of speech uses something associated with an entity to refer to that entity, such as referring 
to the U.S. government as \"the White House\"? 
ANSWER:  
metonymy 
 (meh-TAHN-uh-mee) 
9B.  \"Minimum spanning\" and \"binary seach\" are types of what data structure that has \"roots\" and 
\"leaves?\" 
ANSWER:  
tree 
10A.  Miles Warren created Ben Reilly as a clone of what character, who failed to save Gwen Stacy from 
the Green Goblin? 
ANSWER:  
Spider-Man 
10B.  What ancient school of philosophy, founded by Zeno of Citium, did Marcus Aurelius write about in 
his  
Meditations? 
ANSWER:  
Stoic 
ism 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2012 
Round 1 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The Watts Riots occurred under this President, who appointed Abe Fortas to the Supreme Court. He once 
told an aide, \"We have lost the South for a generation.\" He defeated Coke Stevenson by eighty-seven votes 
in a Senate election, earning the nickname \"Landslide.\" This President used the \"Daisy Ad\" to defeat Barry 
Goldwater in an election. The War on Poverty, Voting Rights Act, and Medicare were part of his Great 
Society. For 10 points, name this President who succeeded JFK. 
ANSWER:  yndon Baines  
L Johnson 
 [or  
LBJ 
; prompt on  
Johnson 
] 
079-12-55-01117 
2. One section of this poem describes a “gem of purest ray serene”. The final nineteen lines of this poem 
are spoken by a \"hoary-headed swain,\" and this poem describes a place \"far from the madding crowd's 
ignoble strife.\" This speaker of this poem imagines “some mute inglorious Milton” and “some Cromwell 
guiltless of his country’s blood” dwelling in the title location. This poem opens by describing the curfew 
that \"tolls the knell of parting day.\" For 10 points, name this elegy written by Thomas Gray. 
ANSWER: \" 
Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard 
\" 
064-12-55-01118 
3. This group of organisms contains an organizational center for growth called a Spitzenkorper 
(SPIT-zen-korp-ehr). They reproduce via cells called basidia (bah-SIH-dee-uh) and asci (AS-key), both of 
which produce spores. Lichens are a type of symbiotic organism composed of an algae and a member of 
this group of organisms. They contain a mass called a mycelium (my-SEEL-eh-um) composed of a thread 
like material composed of chitin (KIE-tin) called hyphae (HIGH-fay). For 10 points, name this kingdom of 
eukaryotic (yoo-kah-ree-YAH-tick) organisms studied by mycologists that include yeasts and mushrooms. 
ANSWER:  
fungi 
 [or  
fungus 
] 
064-12-55-01119 
4. He is not Estes Kefauver, but this man's father refused to sign the Southern Manifesto while serving as a 
senator from Tennessee. As a Senator, this man's wife co-founded the Parents Music Resource Center to 
raise awareness of violent music but resigned after he became Vice President. With running mate Joe 
Lieberman, this man lost an election that hinged on a contentious recount process in Florida. For 10 points, 
name this loser of the 2000 election to George W. Bush 
ANSWER: Albert Arnold  
Gore 
, Jr. 
052-12-55-01120 
5. Wayne Wheeler was a prominent advocate for this movement. The enforcement of this movement is 
sometimes referred to as the \"Noble Experiment.\" Carrie Nation was an ardent supporter of this movement 
known for using a hatchet. This movement was ushered in by the Volstead Act, drafted by the Anti-Saloon 
Act, and led to the rise of illegal speakeasies. For 10 points, name this movement in American history that 
was repealed after the Twenty-First Amendment allowed the sale of alcohol. 
ANSWER:  
Prohibition 
 [or  
temperance 
; prompt on similar answers like  
banning alcohol 
] 
064-12-55-01121 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  6 of 10 
6. In one of this man’s plays, the critics Moon and Birdboot see a murder mystery play out at Lady 
Muldoon’s estate. In another play by this author of  
The Real Inspector Hound, 
 the story of an 1890s 
teenage mathematician is intercut with the present-day story of Bernard Nightingale. In another of his 
plays, the title characters hide in barrels after a flipped coin lands on heads ninety-two times in a row. For 
10 points, name this British playwright of  
Arcadia 
 and  
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. 
ANSWER: Tom  
Stoppard 
 [or Tomas  
Straussler 
] 
079-12-55-01122 
7. In the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus tells the Pharisees that this man's story parallels his own. According to 
the Qur'an, this man's father is Amittai (AM-it-eye). He first appears in Second Kings as a prophet during 
the reign of Jeroboam II. In his namesake book, God provides him with a tree for shade, but then God sends 
a worm to destroy the tree. He flees to Tarshish after God commands him to preach in Nineveh. For 10 
points, name this prophet who is eaten by a large fish. 
ANSWER:  
Jonah 
 [or  
Yunus 
] 
079-12-55-01123 
8. This character’s half-brother buys a locket and a ring from the Widow Corney and her husband. After 
getting shot, he is nursed back to health at the home of the Maylies. This character’s real father is Edwin 
Leeford, and his half-brother is revealed to be Mr. Monks. After his mother dies, this character ends up in 
the care of Bumble. This title character meets the Artful Dodger and joins a gang of pickpockets led by 
Fagin. For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens character, an orphan who asks for more food at a 
workhouse. 
ANSWER:  
Oliver 
 Twist [or Oliver  
Twist 
] 
052-12-55-01124 
9. The speaker of this work contrasts his love with \"dull sublunary lovers' love,\" which \"cannot admit of 
absence.\" This poem concludes that \"thy firmness makes my circle just and makes me end where I begun.\" 
The speaker of this poem claims that he and his lover \"endure not yet a breach, but an expansion,\" claiming 
that they are two only as two legs of a compass are two. For 10 points, name this poem by John Donne 
which tells the addressee not to weep for him in his absence. 
ANSWER: \"A  
Valediction: Forbidding Mourning 
\" 
080-12-55-01125 
10. The Prandtl (PRANT-ul) number is the ratio of a type of this to thermal diffusivity. Poiseuille's 
(pwuh-SELLZ) equation states that the pressure drop is proportional to this quantity. Six pi times the radius 
of a spherical object times its speed times this quantity gives the drag force by Stoke's Law. The ratio of 
inertial forces to forces due to this is given by the Reynold's number. Newtonian fluids have a constant 
value for this. For 10 points, name this measure of the internal friction of a fluid. 
ANSWER:  
 viscosity 
127-12-55-01126 
11. In a commercial parody of “The Newlywed Game,” this player appeared with the man he succeeded in 
one position, Kurt Warner. After being drafted, this man was immediately traded for Philip Rivers after 
refusing to play for San Diego. In one Super Bowl, this Ole Miss alum threw a thirty-two-yard pass to 
David Tyree, who caught the pass with his helmet. This quarterback’s team won a Super Bowl by 
defeating a previously undefeated New England Patriots squad. For 10 points, name this quarterback for the 
New York Giants, whose brother is named Peyton. 
ANSWER:  lisha Nelson  
E Manning 
 [prompt on  
Manning 
] 
052-12-55-01127 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  7 of 10 
12. In one of this author’s works, the protagonist is stirred by hearing his beloved exclaim, “Klopstock!\" 
(KLOP-SHTOK). In that novel, the title character recites Ossian to his beloved, who is engaged to Albert. 
This author, who created a man who kills himself for love of Lotte (LAHT-uh), also wrote a closet drama 
about an insatiable scholar who seduces Gretchen after making a deal with Mephistopheles. For 10 points, 
name this German author of  
The Sorrows of Young Werther 
 (VER-ter) and  
Faust. 
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von  
Goethe 
 (GER-tuh) 
052-12-55-01128 
13. One character in this movie owns a copy of  
The Art of Domestic Horticulture, 
 although the flowers on 
his windowsill are dead. The antagonist of this movie frequently hums from Schubert's song \"The Trout,\" 
calling himself the fisherman and the protagonist the caught fish. This movie climaxes at a diplomatic 
conference, where the disguised gypsy Rene plans to cause a world war by shooting an ambassador. After 
that plan is stopped, the title character jumps off of Reichenbach Falls with his nemesis, Professor 
Moriarty. For 10 points, name this 2011 sequel about a detective created by Arthur Conan Doyle. 
ANSWER:  
Sherlock Holmes: A  Game of Shadows 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"Sherlock Holmes\"] 
080-12-55-01129 
14. In one of this man’s short stories, a banker bets a lawyer two million rubles that the death penalty is 
preferable to life imprisonment. In one play by this author of “The Bet,” Irina celebrates her name day with 
Olga and Maria. In another of his plays, Konstantin Treplev compares the actress Nina to the title bird. 
Madame Ranevskaya (RAN-ehf-SKIE-uh) is forced to relinquish the title piece of land in another play by 
this man. For 10 points, name this Russian playwright of  
Three Sisters, The Seagull, 
   and  
The Cherry 
Orchard. 
ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich  
Chekhov 
079-12-55-01130 
15. Most modern forms of these devices are made of tantalum or ceramics. Their strength is inversely 
proportional to the distance between their ends and directly proportional to their area. Unlike resistors, the 
strength of these devices in parallel equals the sum of their individual strengths. They contain an insulating 
material called a dielectric. On a circuit diagram, they are represented by two parallel lines. For 10 points, 
name these circuit components used to store electrical energy. 
ANSWER:  
capacitor 
s 
064-12-55-01131 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2012 
Round 1 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. In 1978, this future world leader ordered the kidnapping of a man who later escaped his country and 
directed  
3 Ninjas Knuckle Up, 
 but only after making several films under duress for this political figure. 
After he came to power, he established the policy of \"Songun,\" or military first, in 1995. In 1983, this man 
was accused of ordering a bombing in Rangoon, Burma in an attempt to kill Chun Doo-hwan, the 
then-President of South Korea. For 10 points, name this Supreme Leader of North Korea who died in 2011. 
ANSWER:  
Kim Jong-Il 
 [prompt on  
Kim 
] 
088-12-55-01132 
2. In bacteria, nif genes code for a process that involves both this element and an enzyme with an 
iron-molybdenum complex. The rhizobia (rie-ZOE-bee-uh) in the root nodules of plants convert this 
element to a certain compound. This element provides base-like characteristics to pyrimidine 
(pih-RIH-mih-deen) and purine (PURE-een) and is bonded to carbon in a peptide bond. This element, 
which is found in amines, is converted to ammonia via its namesake fixation. For 10 points, name this gas 
that makes up eighty percent of Earth’s atmosphere, with symbol N. 
ANSWER:  
nitrogen 
 [accept   before mentioned] 
N 
079-12-55-01133 
3. One of his paintings features seated man in a black coat who looks at the title nude and responds to a 
similarly-titled Manet painting. He also painted two men in brown hats focused on a game with a bottle 
between them. In addition to  
A Modern Olympia 
 and  
The Card Players 
, he painted trees leaning into a 
V-shape above the title nudes in another work. For 10 points,  
The Bathers 
 is by which French 
post-impressionist, who painted many views of Mont-Sainte Victoire (mon-san vick-TWAR) and still-lives 
such as  
The Basket of Apples 
? 
ANSWER: Paul  
Cezanne 
 (say-ZAHN) 
127-12-55-01134 
4. This desert contains the Calico Early Man Site, the only Western Hemisphere dig of Louis Leakey. 
Within this desert, sodium bicarbonate is harvested from the dry Soda Lake. It contains the towns of 
Lancaster and Victorville, and its southwest is the foothills of the San Gabriel and San Bernardino 
mountains. Also bordering Lake Mead, its intersection with the Great Basin is found at Death Valley. For 
10 points, name this southwestern American desert in Nevada and California, the home of Joshua Tree 
National Park. 
ANSWER:  
Mojave 
 Desert 
019-12-55-01135 
5. Features on the surface of these objects include light and dark bands known as ogives (OH-jives), and 
one type of volcano associated with these objects is called a tuya. Water enters these objects through 
moulins (MOO-lawns), and the accumulation zone is above the firn (FEERN) line on these objects. The 
movement of these objects causes moraines (muh-RAINS) and drumlins to form. Cracks in them are 
known as crevasses. For 10 points, identify these large masses of ice. 
ANSWER:  
glacier 
s 
132-12-55-01136 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  9 of 10 
This is a calculation question. In slope-intercept form, what is the equation for a line with a slope of 3 that 
passes through the point (1,1)? 
ANSWER:  
y = 3x - 2 
132-12-55-01137 
What name is given to the period of racial segregation and subjugation ended in 1994 in South Africa? 
ANSWER:  
apartheid 
132-12-55-01137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 1     Page  10 of 10 
