National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 17 
Tossups 
1. The son of this film's director claims that Charlie Chaplin's Chinese projectionist would faint every time 
he showed this movie. A scene set \"eight years later\" in this film shows a man with a metal box strapped 
around his neck bicycling down the street dressed in a nun's habit. An androgynous woman pokes at a 
severed hand with a cane in this film, only to be hit by a car; one of the two figures watching her from an 
upstairs window then drags two pianos filled with decaying dead donkeys across the room. The most 
recognizable scene in this film shows a woman's eyeball slowly cut by a razor blade. For 10 points, name 
this surrealist 1921 film, a collaboration between Salvador Dali and Luis Buñuel. 
ANSWER:  
Un  chien andalou 
 [or  
An  Andalusian Dog 
] 
022-09-12-17102 
2. One island in this body of water is Lord Howe's Island. Cities on its eastern side include Greymouth and 
New Plymouth, while cities on its western side include Newcastle and Wollongong [WOOL-ung-gong]. 
Norfolk Island lies in its northern part, near its border with the Coral Sea. Its namesake also gives his name 
to an island whose capital is Hobart and which is separated by the Bass Strait from mainland Australia. For 
10 points, name this body of water between Australia and New Zealand. 
ANSWER:  
Tasman 
 Sea 
024-09-12-17103 
3. Paul Theroux detailed this author's monomaniacal behavior in a book named for this writer's \"shadow.\" 
Derek Walcott called this author \"a rodent in old age\" in \"The Mongoose,\" a poem written in retaliation for 
this author's dismissal of Walcott in the first chapter of  
A Writer's People 
. This author wrote \"The world is 
what it is; men who are nothing, who allow themselves to become nothing, have no place in it\" as the 
opening line of a novel about a dictator who imprisons the Indian narrator Salim. This author described his 
journeys to the Islamic world in  
Beyond Belief 
 and  
Among the Believers 
, and gained renown for a novel 
about Mohun's quest to own a home. For 10 points, name this author of  
A Bend in the River 
 and  
A House 
for Mr. Biswas 
. 
ANSWER: Sir V(idiadhar) S(urajprasad)  
Naipaul 
004-09-12-17104 
4. The frequency of creation of these entities from a long circular cylinder is governed by the Strouhal 
number. One of these named for Rankine consists of a free one surrounding a forced one. Van Karman 
names a process of shedding of so-called streets of these - one instance of that process created the resonant 
force that destroyed the Tacoma Narrows Bridge. They are similar to eddies except they contain no voids in 
their centers. Usually occurring in regions where the circulation per unit area is non-zero, for 10 points, 
identify these entities found in fluids; local regions of circulatory flow exemplified by cyclones and 
tornadoes. 
ANSWER:  
vortex 
 [or  
vortices 
] 
048-09-12-17105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  1 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. The speaker of one poem in this collection promises to \"strike you without anger,\" like Moses struck the 
rock. One poem in this collection declares “no, there’s no bow that plays upon my heart, that perfect 
instrument,” and describes a creature that can scarcely be heard when it mews. This collection contains the 
poem \"The Self-Torturer,\" as well as a poem that repeats “There is all order and beauty” and another that 
describes a past-time involving a “weak and gauche” bird that amuses several crewmen. Poems such as 
“Invitation to a Voyage” and “The Albatross” are found in this collection which was censored for its 
reference to Satan as \"thrice great\" and divided into sections like “Wine,” and “Spleen and Ideal.” For 10 
points, name this work of symbolist poetry by Charles Baudelaire. 
ANSWER:  
Les  Fleurs du Mal 
 [or  
The  Flowers of Evil 
] 
020-09-12-17106 
6. The first movement of Ysaye's second violin sonata is based on this song. The final movement of 
Rachmaninoff's  
Symphonic Dances 
 pits this song in conflict with the traditional Russian melody \"Blessed 
is the Lord.\" Liszt's  
Totentanz 
 consists of variations on this song, which is played by the piano in the 
seventh variation of  
Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini 
. The final movement of  
Symphonie Fantastique 
combines a parody of this song with a witches' dance. In Verdi's  
Requiem 
, this song is accompanied by 
pounding fortissimo brass chords, and follows the Kyrie eleison. For 10 points, name this medieval Latin 
hymn whose name means \"days of wrath.\" 
ANSWER:  
Dies Irae 
 [or  
days of wrath 
 before mentioned] 
004-09-12-17107 
7. This man tried to sway businessmen to the New Deal by writing the book  
I’m For Roosevelt. 
 He 
relinquished one position to John Winant when his statement that “Democracy is finished in England” led 
him to be replaced as ambassador. This man was appointed the first head of the Maritime Commission after 
instituting reforms such as requiring regular filing of financial statements as the first Chairman of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. His son Robert served as Attorney General from 1961 to 1964 and 
was assassinated by Sirhan Sirhan. For 10 points, name this wealthy Bostonian whose son John was elected 
president in 1960. 
ANSWER:  
Joseph 
 Patrick  
Kennedy, Sr. 
 [or  
Joe 
 Patrick  
Kennedy, Sr. 
; prompt on  
Joseph Kennedy 
; 
prompt on  
Joe Kennedy 
] 
015-09-12-17108 
8. Lucian describes how this figure erected a temple in Northern Syria, where pilgrims carried vessels of 
sea water bi-annually. One son of this figure deposed Cranaus and formed the Amphictyonic League, 
which was overthrown by Erichthonius, another king of Athens. After visiting an oracle of Themis, this 
figure interpreted the \"mother\" to be Gaia, and her \"bones\" to be rocks, which he and his wife threw over 
their shoulders to create people. This was made necessary after Lycaon sacrificed a child to Zeus, who 
brought a flood, forcing this man and his wife Pyrrha to construct an Ark. For 10 points, name this son of 
Prometheus and Noah-like figure. 
ANSWER:  
Deucalion 
064-09-12-17109 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  2 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. The speaker of W. S. Merwin's poem \"Looking for Mushrooms at Sunrise\" encounters \"chanterelles\" of 
this color, which \"pushed through a sleep that was not mine.\" A Communist who took this color as his 
surname published an article calling Gertrude Stein \"a literary idiot\" and wrote the novel  
Jews Without 
Money 
. In \"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird,\" Wallace Stevens asks the \"thin men of Haddam\" 
why they imagine birds of this color. The speaker of \"Sailing to Byzantium\" commands sages in a mosaic 
of this color to be the \"singing-masters\" of his soul. A poem named for this color declares \"Then leaf 
subsides to leaf / So Eden sank to grief,\" and begins by claiming that \"Nature's first green\" is this color. For 
10 points, name this color central to a Robert Frost poem whose title claims that nothing of this color can 
stay. 
ANSWER:  
gold 
 [accept  
golden 
 on the clue about \"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird\"] 
004-09-12-17110 
10. The Metropolitan Kirill probably commissioned this man’s biography, and this man defeated Earl 
Birger in a battle that gave this man his sobriquet. This man exposed his brother Andrew’s conspiracy to 
Sartak, and his son Daniel founded the House of Moscow. This man collaborated with Batu Khan and the 
Golden Horde, and he was commissioned by Pope Gregory IX to Christianize the Baltic. A saint of the 
Russian Orthodox Church, an order named for this man was created by Catherine the Great and revived by 
the Soviet Union in 1942. For 10 points, name this prince of Novgorod and Kiev who defeated the Teutonic 
Knights at the Massacre on the Ice in 1242. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Nevsky 
 [or Aleksandr  
Nevsky 
; or Aleksandr  
Yaroslavich 
] 
030-09-12-17111 
11. In one story by this author, the Italian orphan Tina spurns the chaplain of Cheverel Manor for Anthony 
Wybrow. That work, “Mr. Gilfil’s Love Story,” is set near her fictional town of Milby along with her story 
“Janet’s Repentence.” In one of her novels, Harold Transome’s electioneering results in a riot at which the 
title character accidentally kills a constable, forcing him to serve prison time before marrying Esther Lyon. 
Another of her protagonists falls in love with the Methodist preacher Dinah Morris and the dairy farmer 
Hetty Sorrell. This author of  
Scenes of Clerical Life 
 and  
Felix Holt, the Radical 
 also wrote of a weaver 
from Raveloe who adopts Eppie and hides a stash of gold. For 10 points, name this British author of  
Adam 
Bede 
 and  
Silas Marner 
. 
ANSWER: George  
Eliot 
 [or Mary Ann  
Evans 
] 
015-09-12-17112 
12. Anthony Cheng published a work subtitled after the \"myth\" of this man decrying the attributed impact 
of his most famous experiment. While on vacation, this man discovered pure nickel. This teacher of 
Adolphe Kolbe also purified aluminum, an endeavor at which Davy, Oerstedt, and Berzelius had failed. He 
is better known for heating a mixture of potassium cyanate and ammonium chloride \"without needing a 
kidney, whether of man or dog\" and thus disproving vitalism. For 10 points, name this German chemist 
who became the first to make an organic molecule from inorganic materials with his synthesis of urea. 
ANSWER: Fredrich  
Wohler 
003-09-12-17113 
13. This man’s son became a paraplegic after being tortured and thrown out of a window, leading him to 
establish a welfare fund for the disabled. This man did not care if a cat was white or black as long as it 
caught mice, emblematic of his “seeking truth from facts.” This creator of the “one country, two systems” 
policy attracted foreign investment in the Special Economic Zones and was demoted to one post in favor of 
Hua Guofeng. The spiritual successor to Zhou Enlai and actual successor to Mao, for 10 points, identify 
this Chinese chairman whose reign saw the Tiananmen Square protests, and who ruled in the 1980s. 
ANSWER:  
Deng 
 Xiaoping 
020-09-12-17114 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  3 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. The beginning of this man’s term as Prime Minister saw a standoff between Britain and Spain over 
control of the Falkand Islands. He became Home Secretary in a coalition with Charles Fox and was 
succeeded by the Marquess of Rockingham as prime minister. He succeeded Charles Townshend as 
Chancellor of the Exchequer, was prime minister during the Gordon Riots, and was forced to resign after 
his country was defeated at the Battle of Yorktown. For 10 points, name this British Prime Minister during 
the Revolutionary War. 
ANSWER: Lord Frederick  
North 
, Earl of Guilford 
064-09-12-17115 
15. This molecule is the \"gas\" in the water-gas shift reaction used to produce hydrogen gas, and it can be 
produced by the reaction of concentrated sulfuric acid and formic acid. This molecule is reacted with 
impure nickel in the Mond process, and blast furnaces reduce hematite by reacting it with this molecule. It 
is produced by insufficient combustion of hydrocarbons, which is why running an automobile in an 
enclosed area can lead to high air concentrations of it. For 10 points, name this heteronuclear diatomic 
molecule that has over two hundred times as high a binding affinity for hemoglobin as oxygen does. 
ANSWER:  
carbon monoxide 
 [or  
CO 
; do not accept or prompt on \"carbon dioxide\"] 
003-09-12-17116 
16. The fourth section of this book begins by comparing people to fish living in a sea of \"sensible facts\" 
who are only briefly able to come in contact with the air of abstract ideas above them. The second section 
of this book argues that belief in an Absolute Mind allows a person to take \"a moral holiday.\" The sixth 
section of this book critiques the correspondence theory of truth, and claims that truths are \"made\" by being 
verified by experience. This book's opening section, \"The Present Dilemma in Philosophy,\" attempts to 
reconcile the rationalist and empiricist mindsets. It argues that ideas should be judged based on their 
\"cash-value,\" meaning their practical consequences. For 10 points, name this 1907 book which outlined a 
new kind of American philosophy, written by William James. 
ANSWER:  
Pragmatism : A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking 
004-09-12-17117 
17. The colony-forming unit CFU-E is central to the differentiation of these cells. As these cells 
differentiate, they switch from staining basophilic to staining acidophilic. A protein found in these cells is 
switched by the transcription factor GATA1 from an infant to an adult form. The hormone EPO regulates 
the production of these cells, which can be produced in an \"extramedullary\" manner in the spleen and liver. 
These biconcave cells lack a nucleus. For 10 points, name these that can be \"sickle\" shaped in a type of 
anemia, and carry oxygen using hemoglobin. 
ANSWER:  
red blood 
 cells [accept  
RBC 
s; or  
erythrocyte 
s; or  
erythroid 
 cells; or  
haematid 
s] 
026-09-12-17118 
18. This work contains a chapter opening with \"My child, you are not yet a brave and wise lover.\" Its third 
section consists of dialogues between a disciple and the voice of the title figure, and is called \"Internal 
Consolation.\" This work was influenced by the Brethren of the Common Life, and the larger trend of  
devotio moderna. 
 From the invention of the printing press until the early twentieth century, this book 
trailed only the Bible in the number of copies in circulation. For 10 points, name this work about spiritual 
living, which was written sometime around 1400 and is often attributed to Thomas à Kempis. 
ANSWER:  
The  Imitation of Christ 
 [or  
Imitatio Christi 
] 
019-09-12-17119 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  4 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. A statement made by Gustaf Ramstedt, among others, says that the most prevalent of these should 
actually not be classified as one of them. That statement is the Altaic hypothesis, which concerns a 
language which includes seven \"speech levels\" and is written in Hangul. One of these languages is 
controversially thought to be the reason a nearby tongue saw initial /f/ become initial /h/; that 
ergative-absolutive language contains the word ezker, which is known to be the source of a Spanish root for 
\"left.\" For 10 points, give this term, applying to Basque and Korean, which refers to languages that do not 
have any clear genetic relationship to others. 
ANSWER:  
language isolates 
 [accept  
isolates 
 after \"language\"] 
022-09-12-17120 
20. The artist of this painting is said to have repainted its background in richer colors after seeing John 
Constable’s  
The Haywain 
, which debuted in the same Salon. In the background of this work, a series of 
white buildings on a hill give way to the sea under an orange sky. On the right of this painting’s 
foreground, a standing woman obscures her face with her right arm while grappling with the ropes that bind 
her. Behind the main figures of this painting, a turbaned gunman stands in the shadows and a soldier on a 
rearing horse draws his saber. It was its artist's second submission to the salon, after  
The Barque of Dante 
. 
For 10 points, name this painting that depicts the slaughter of Greek residents of the namesake island by 
Turkish oppressors, by Eugene Delacroix. 
ANSWER:  
Scenes from the  Massacre of Chios 
 [or  
Scenes from the  Massacre at Chios 
, or  
Scene des  
massacres de Scio 
] 
015-09-12-17121 
21. One character in this play fires the tutor Weinhold for disagreeing with him and plays a game of whist 
with Pastor Kittelhaus. Another character is forced to kill his pet dog for food but it unable to keep it down, 
having not eaten meat for two years. A policeman warns against the singing of a song taught to the central 
characters of this play by the soldier Moritz Jaeger. This play is subtitled “a drama of the forties” and ends 
as the elderly Hilse is killed by a stray bullet. The industrialist Dreissiger barely escapes with his family 
after Becker is freed from police custody and leads an angry mob against his house. For 10 points, name 
this dramatization of a Silesian wage riot of the title workers, a work of Gerhardt Hauptmann. 
ANSWER:  
The  Weavers 
 [or  
Die  Weber 
] 
015-09-12-17122 
22. A test symbolized by this letter was developed by William Pugh to determine whether integer solutions 
exist to a given set of linear equations and inequalities. This letter denotes the density parameter found in 
the Friedman equation. This letter describes compounds like docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic 
acid, where it indicates the position of the final double bond. Whereas upper asymptotic bounds of 
functions are denoted with big-O notation, lower asymptotic bounds are denoted this letter writ big. One 
quantity symbolized by this letter is equal to the inverse of the square root of the inductance times the 
capacitance in an LC circuit. For 10 points, name this Greek letter a capital one of which is used to denote a 
quantity equal to the projection of a surface from a point onto the unit sphere, the solid angle. 
ANSWER:  
omega 
064-09-12-17123 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  5 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
23. Inspired by Giles of Rome's  
De Regimene Principum 
, this king encouraged his subjects to call him 
\"your highness\" and \"your majesty,\" popularizing the use of those terms. During the reign of this king, a 
tax levied by the Bad Parliament incited a rebellion against him. This king's favorite advisers, such as 
Robert de Vere and Michael de la Pole, were condemned to death by the Lords Appellant during the 
Merciless Parliament. This son of Edward the Black Prince ended a threat to his rule after a meeting at 
Smithfield, where the mayor of London killed Wat Tyler. For 10 points, name this Plantagenet king of 
England who put down the Peasants' Revolt and was dethroned by Henry IV after ruling from 1377 to 
1399. 
ANSWER:  
Richard II 
 Plantagenet [prompt on  
Richard 
] 
004-09-12-17124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  6 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 17 
Bonuses 
1. At the end of this play, Hector Hushabye breaks from his passivity and runs around the title structure 
turning on lights, in defiance of a wartime blackout order. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play, in which Ellie Dunn refuses to marry the blowhard Boss Mangan after being 
converted to Captain Shotover's quest for the \"seventh degree of concentration.\" 
ANSWER:  
Heartbreak House 
[10] Bluntschli is identified as the \"chocolate cream soldier\" and proposes to Raina at the end of this other 
play, after avoiding a machine-gun duel with Sergius. 
ANSWER:  
Arms and the Man : An Anti-Romantic Comedy 
[10] Both  
Heartbreak House 
 and  
Arms and the Man 
 were written by this member of the Fabian Society and 
author of  
Pygmalion. 
ANSWER: George Bernard  
Shaw 
019-09-12-17201 
2. You want to evaluate some integrals. For 10 point each... 
[10] You might use this theorem, according to which the integral of a function is simply any of its 
anti-derivatives. 
ANSWER: the second  
fundamental theorem of calculus 
 [prompt on  
FTC 
] 
[10] It's no problem if you've got a multiple integral since, according to this theorem, you can evaluate it as 
an iterated integral in any order of integration as long as the integrand is sufficiently nice. A more general 
result of which this one is a corollary is Tonelli's theorem. 
ANSWER:  
Fubini’s 
 theorem 
[10] If you've got a Cartesian area integral that you want to convert to circular polar coordinates, you've got 
to divide through by this value, which you can verify by computing the Jacobian of the transformation. 
ANSWER: the circular  
radius 
 [accept   or  
r rho 
] 
064-09-12-17202 
3. Answer some questions about a certain school of thought, for 10 points each: 
[10] This philosophical school of German neo-Marxists examined media institutions and social structures. 
Its more notable members included Theodor Adorno, Max Horkheimer, and Erich Fromm. 
ANSWER:  
Frankfurt 
 School 
[10] Adorno and Horkheimer wrote a work called the  
Dialectic of 
 this time period, explaining its so-called 
failures. This philosophical time period saw the work of Voltaire and Diderot in France. 
ANSWER:  
Enlightenment 
[10] Another Frankfurt School philosopher was this author, who examined what he believed to be a modern 
repressive society in such works as  
Eros and Civilization 
 and  
One-Dimensional Man 
. 
ANSWER: Herbert  
Marcuse 
052-09-12-17203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  7 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. A soldier who earns money by participating in strange medical experiments is told to go home and check 
Marie for hairs from another man's beard while shaving The Captain. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play which ends with that soldier fatally stabbing his lover for an affair with The Drum 
Major. 
ANSWER:  
Woyzeck 
[10] This author of the emotional novel  
Lenz 
 wrote  
Woyzeck 
. 
ANSWER: Karl Georg  
Büchner 
[10] Buchner also wrote a play about the \"death\" of this French Revolutionary radical, who led the 
Committee of Public Safety until replaced by Robespierre. 
ANSWER: Georges Jacques  
Danton 
019-09-12-17204 
5. This work opens with a “proem” and ends by ordering the title city to “hold thy floating singer late!” in 
“Atlantis.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this lengthy poem which includes “Southern Cross” among its “Three Songs” along with the 
poems “The Tunnel,” “Cutty Sark,” and “Van Winkle.” 
ANSWER:  
The  Bridge 
[10]  
The Bridge 
 was written by this cryptic American poet who included the “Voyages” series in his 
collection  
White Buildings 
. 
ANSWER: Hart  
Crane 
[10] The narrator of this Crane poem contemplates the “dice of drowned men's bones” “beneath the wave, 
wide from this ledge” while paying resects to the title author. 
ANSWER: “ 
At Melville’s Tomb 
” 
015-09-12-17205 
6. For 10 points each, answer the following about composers of galops. 
[10] This composer of the  
Circus Galop 
 is better known for his marches, which include the \"Washington 
Post\" and \"The Stars and Stripes Forever.\" 
ANSWER: John Philip  
Sousa 
[10] This comic opera by Jacques Offenbach includes an \"Infernal Galop.\" In its first act, Public Opinion 
orders the title character to rescue his wife. 
ANSWER:  
Orpheus in the Underworld 
 [or  
Orphée aux enfers 
] 
[10] This composer wrote flashy pieces such as  
Grand galop chromatique 
 to show off his virtuosity. His 
late compositions include  
Grey Clouds 
 and  
The Lugubrious Gondola 
. 
ANSWER: Franz  
Liszt 
004-09-12-17206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  8 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. This practice was re-initiated by Leo V the Armenian in 815. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this practice which occurred several times during the Byzantine Empire, in which emperors and 
Orthodox Church councils imposed bans on religious images. It takes its name from the Greek for 
“image-breaking.” 
ANSWER:  
iconoclasm 
[10] This Byzantine empress was married to iconoclast Leo IV, although she reportedly privately concealed 
icons herself. While she restored the veneration of icons upon taking power after Leo’s death, Pope Leo III 
regarded her as an enemy and crowned Charlemagne emperor as a slap against her. 
ANSWER:  
Irene 
 of Athens [or  
Irene Sarantapechaina 
] 
[10] Irene and Leo IV were members of this Byzantine dynasty, begun by Leo III, who withstood the 
second Arab siege of Constantinople. It takes its name from Leo’s birthplace, a poor and mountainous 
province in Asia Minor. 
ANSWER:  
Isaurian 
 dynasty 
052-09-12-17207 
8. These organisms use pedicellaria to keep their bodies clean, have tube feet called podia, and have a 
skeletal plate structure called stereom. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this phylum of spiny-skinned sea creatures. 
ANSWER:  
Echinodermata 
 [or  
echinoderm 
s] 
[10] This internal hydraulic system helps the echinoderms move, breathe, and feed. 
ANSWER:  
water vascular 
 system 
[10] This largest class of Echinodermata includes the coral reef-killing crown-of-thorns starfish and its 
members are sometimes known as sea stars. 
ANSWER:  
asteroidea 
 [or  
asteroid 
s] 
023-09-12-17208 
9. This composer attacked Meyerbeer and Mendelssohn in his Anti-Semitic essay \"Judaism in Music.\" For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this German composer, who built an opera house in Bayreuth dedicated to the performance of 
his  
Ring 
 cycle. 
ANSWER: Richard  
Wagner 
[10] The dissonance expressed in Wagner's operas  
Tristan and Isolde 
 and  
Parsifal 
 helped inspire this 
composer's pioneering atonal music, which includes his one-act opera  
Expectation 
 and his unfinished opera 
Moses and Aaron 
. 
ANSWER: Arnold  
Schoenberg 
[10] This Austrian composer of the  
Italian Serenade 
 was devoted to the music of Wagner. Before dying in 
an insane asylum, he composed many lieder based on the poetry of Eichendorff and Morike. 
ANSWER: Hugo  
Wolf 
004-09-12-17209 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  9 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. Before spectroscopy was developed, a series of simple qualitative chemical tests could determine the 
class of a compound. For 10 points each: 
[10] Unsaturated double bonds could be detected by reacting it with this element, the only halogen that is a 
liquid at standard temperature and pressure. 
ANSWER:  
bromine 
 [or  
Br 
] 
[10] Unsaturated carbon bonds could also be detected with Baeyer’s reagent, a powerful oxidant containing 
this transition metal in its characteristic +7 oxidation state. 
ANSWER:  
manganese 
 [or  
Mg 
] 
[10] Primary and secondary alcohols can be detected by reacting them with a reagent containing this other 
transition metal. The reaction occurs when this metal goes from its +6 to +3 oxidation state, producing a 
blue-green precipitate. 
ANSWER:  
chromium 
 [or  
Cr 
] 
064-09-12-17210 
11. This term was introduced by Alfonso V in 1443, and it denoted a political construct which lasted until 
Ferdinand II surrendered to the Risorgimento in 1860. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this kingdom, which included both the namesake island and a portion of the Italian mainland, 
and was ruled in the early modern period by the House of Aragon. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of the  
Two Sicilies 
[10] The mainland portion of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies was centered on this southern Italian city, 
whose attempt to tax fruit was opposed by Masaniello's rebellion. 
ANSWER:  
Naples 
[10] This brother of Napoleon, who had earlier negotiated the Treaty of Mortfontaine to end France's naval 
war with the U.S., displaced the Bourbons and became King of Naples in 1806, but two years later he left 
that throne to become king of Spain for the remainder of the Napoleonic period. 
ANSWER:  oseph  
J Bonaparte 
 [or  iuseppe  
G Buonaparte 
; prompt on  
Bonaparte 
] 
019-09-12-17211 
12. It may come in short-term or long-term varieties. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this capacity to remember things. 
ANSWER:  
memory 
[10] The inability to convert from short-term to long-term memory may cause this type of amnesia, in 
which a person is unable to remember new things. 
ANSWER:  
anterograde 
 amnesia 
[10] George Miller's research has shown that most adults' short-term memory stores this many, plus or 
minus two, bits of information 
ANSWER:  
seven 
003-09-12-17212 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  10 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. The Foraker Act described one government of this place; later, independence activists from here 
invaded the Blair House in an attempt to assassinate Harry Truman. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this location, whose native militants also fired thirty shots from the observation gallery of the 
U.S. House of Representatives in 1954. 
ANSWER:  
Puerto Rico 
[10] Puerto Rico's transfer to American control following the Spanish-American War was one consequence 
of the mysterious 1898 explosion of this battleship in Havana harbor. 
ANSWER: the U.S.S.  
Maine 
[10]  
Goetze v. U.S., De Lima v. Bidwell, 
   and  
Fourteen Diamond Rings v. U.S. 
 were among this series of 
1901 Supreme Court rulings that declined to apply full rights of citizenship to Puerto Ricans, holding that 
\"the Constitution does not follow the flag.\" 
ANSWER: the  
Insular Cases 
019-09-12-17213 
14. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, this country was home to the Baoulé kingdom and the Kong 
Empire. For 10 points each:http://hsapq.com/QProgram/editor.php?set=60&qid=10465 
[10] Name this country ruled from 1960 to 1993 by Felix Houphouët-Boigny. From 2002 to 2007, it was 
the location of a civil war between the New Forces and President Laurent Gbagbo. 
ANSWER:  
Côte d'Ivoire 
 [or  
Ivory Coast 
] 
[10] Côte d'Ivoire is the world's leading producer of this crop, whose sale funded both sides of its civil war. 
It was first cultivated by the Olmecs and brought back to Spain by Hernan Cortes. 
ANSWER:  
cocoa 
 beans 
[10] Côte d'Ivoire, like other French colonies in Africa, was fought over by the Vichy regime and this 
resistance army, which was led by Charles de Gaulle after Henri Giraud lost popularity. 
ANSWER:  
Free French 
 Forces [or Forces  
Françaises Libres 
] 
004-09-12-17214 
15. This term was coined in a 1946 speech by Winston Churchill and some commentators claimed it took a 
hit when Barack Obama gave Gordon Brown an unremarkable gift of DVDs. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this term used to describe the close ties between the UK and the United States following World 
War II. 
ANSWER:  
special relationship 
[10] The special relationship was on display during this 1982 conflict, when the US prohibited arms sales 
to Argentina while the UK invaded the central island group. 
ANSWER:  
Falklands 
 War 
[10] Gordon Brown apologized for calling Labour supporter Gillian Duffy this derogatory term during his 
campaign. 
ANSWER:  
bigot 
ed 
015-09-12-17215 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  11 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. Due to a mistaken belief that this building was the Temple of Solomon, the Knights Templar modeled 
their European churches after it. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this building in Jerusalem, constructed by the caliph Abd al-Malik, which marks the spot on 
the Temple Mount from which Muhammad ascended to heaven. 
ANSWER: the  
Dome of the Rock 
 [or  
Qubbat al-Sakhrah  
] 
[10] Under the Dome of the Rock is this cave, which Muslims believe sits atop the rivers of heaven and is 
the waiting place for the dead prior to Judgement Day. 
ANSWER: the  
Well of Souls 
 [or  
Bir el- Arweh 
] 
[10] Muhammad ascended from Jerusalem to heaven once before his death, during this miracle in which 
the winged horse Buraq carried the prophet from Mecca to Jerusalem and then heaven 
near-instantaneously. 
ANSWER: the  
Night Journey 
 [or  
Isra 
 and  
Miraj 
] 
019-09-12-17216 
17. This work identified Want, Disease, Ignorance, Squalor, and Idleness as the \"five giants.\" For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this report, that proposed a plan in which workers contributed to a fund that would pay benefits 
to the sick, injured, and unemployed, and which is considered the founding document of the modern British 
welfare state. 
ANSWER:  
Beveridge 
 Report [or  
Social Insurance and Allied Services 
] 
[10] Many of the ideas outlined in the Beveridge Report, such as the establishment of the National Health 
Service, were instituted under this Prime Minister, whose time in office also saw the independence of most 
of Britain’s Asian colonies, including India. 
ANSWER: Clement Richard  
Attlee 
[10] This Prime Minister and his Conservative coalition suffered a shocking landslide defeat in the 1945 
elections, despite his wartime leadership, in part because of the Labour Party’s campaign promises to 
implement the Beveridge Report. 
ANSWER: Winston Leonard Spencer- 
Churchill 
003-09-12-17217 
18. This man’s half-brother Evnissyen caused a whole bunch of trouble by mutilating Matholwch's horses 
and throwing this man’s nephew Gwern into a fire. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who later commanded that his head be cut off and placed under the White Mount, 
promising that the Island of Britain would never be invaded by sea while it stayed there. 
ANSWER:  
Bran 
 the Blessed [or Bendigeid  
Vran 
 Fendigaidd] 
[10] Bran is associated with this animal, who stuck a thorn in Seagull's foot to create the sun, moon, and 
stars in Native American myth, where he was a trickster alongside Coyote. 
ANSWER:  
raven 
s [or  
crow 
s; or  
corvid 
s] 
[10] Bran's story appears in \"Branwen, the Daughter of Llyr,\" one branch of this collection of tales from 
Welsh mythology that was first translated into English by Charlotte Guest. 
ANSWER:  
Mabinogi 
on 
003-09-12-17218 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  12 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19.  
The Hurdy-Gurdy Player 
 is one of this man’s rare daylight paintings. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French painter of candlelit scenes such as  
The Lamentation over St. Sebastian 
 and  
St. 
Joseph the Carpenter 
 who used street people for models of religious subjects. 
ANSWER: Georges de la  
Tour 
[10] Georges de la Tour is one of the disciples of this Italian painter whose  
Death of the Virgin 
 was rejected 
by the Carmelites due to the depiction of Mary’s bare legs and belly. He was renowned for his usage of 
tenebrism, the extreme contrast between light and dark also called chiaroscuro. 
ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi da  
Caravaggio 
[10] In this Caravaggio painting, Christ is shown entering the room of the title toll collector, who attempts 
to hide his coins. A diagonal beam of light emanates from the window at upper left. 
ANSWER:  
The  Calling of St. Matthew 
030-09-12-17219 
20. The expansion coefficients of the eigenstates of this quantity are the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity. For a classical particle, it is equal to the mass times the cross-product of position 
and velocity. 
ANSWER: the  
angular momentum 
 [prompt on  ; do not accept \"spin\"] 
L 
[10] For an extended body, the angular momentum is equal to the this quantity times the angular velocity. 
For a particle of mass m that is a distance r from the axis of rotation, this quantity is given by m times 
r-squared. 
ANSWER: the mass  
moment of inertia 
 [or  
angular mass 
; or  
rotational inertia 
; prompt on  ; prompt on  
I J 
] 
[10] In quantum mechanics, angular momentum is quantized in units of h-bar, which is equal to this 
constant over twice pi. This constant is approximately 6.626 times ten to the negative thirty-fourth 
Joule-Seconds. 
ANSWER:  
Planck 
's constant [prompt on  ] 
h 
026-09-12-17220 
21. This character has an assistant named Gecko and ultimately dies of a heart attack. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character from the novel  
Trilby 
, a master musician and hypnotist. He uses his powers to 
turn the title character into a great singer, unbeknownst to her. 
ANSWER:  
Svengali 
[10]  
Trilby 
 was written by this French-born author and cartoonist. His granddaughter wrote such ghoulish 
short stories as “The Birds” and “Don’t Look Now.” 
ANSWER: George  
du Maurier 
[10] George’s granddaughter, Daphne, is best known for this novel whose protagonist marries Maxim de 
Winter and moves into Manderley, only to discover that he still seems obsessed with his dead first wife, the 
title character. 
ANSWER:  
Rebecca 
052-09-12-17221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 17     Page  13 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
