VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 2 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The inequality named after one of these shapes states that the absolute value of quantity x plus y is less 
than or equal to the absolute value of x plus absolute value of y. Two of these figures are not necessarily 
congruent if SSA is satisfied, but they are if SAS is. The Euler line goes through their incenter, orthocenter, 
and centroid. For 10 points, what are these polygons whose area equals one-half base times height? 
ANSWER:  
triangle 
s 
233-13-93-02101 
2. This man adopted the Creek Indian boy Lyncoya after he was orphaned in a battle, and he executed the 
British agents Arbuthnot and Ambrister during a military raid, causing an international crisis. This man lost 
his first run for President to John Quincy Adams due to what he called a \"Corrupt Bargain.\" For 10 points, 
identify this President nicknamed \"Old Hickory\" whose issuing of the Specie Circular may have ruined the 
presidency of his successor, Martin Van Buren. 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Jackson 
135-13-93-02102 
3. Organic mechanisms depict the “movement” of these particles with curvy arrows. These particles were 
discovered in Crookes tubes. “Scanning” and “tunneling” microscopes use these particles. They are 
described by four quantum numbers. By setting the radius of orbit equal to an integral multiple wavelength, 
Bohr was able to derive a model where these particles are in fixed orbits. For 10 points, name these 
negatively charged particles in a “cloud” outside the nucleus. 
ANSWER:  
electron 
s 
190-13-93-02103 
4. In an opera by this composer, Queen Tye joins the title character and his wife at the Window of Public 
Appearances. The phrase “Bank robbery is punishable by twenty years in federal prison” is repeated in 
another of his operas, whose libretto employs solfege symbols. That opera by him includes the section \"I 
Feel the Earth Move\" and has its acts separated by Knee Plays. For 10 points, name this minimalist 
composer of  
Satyagraha Akhenaten 
,  , and  
Einstein on the Beach 
. 
ANSWER: Philip  
Glass 
224-13-93-02104 
5. Beta-mercaptoethanol and this compound were used to denature proteins in Anfinsen’s experiment. 
Wohler disproved vitalism by synthesizing this compound, which he called ammonium cyanate. ADH 
controls how much of this compound is secreted into the Loop of Henle. It's produced in the liver by the 
ornithine cycle. Fish simply excrete ammonia, rather than this compound, while birds use uric acid. For 10 
points, name this nitrogenous compound mixed with water to form urine. 
ANSWER:  
urea 
190-13-93-02105 
6. This European city featured numerous searchlights that formed the “cathedral of light,” one of Albert 
Speer’s architectural designs. A movie with scenes at the Luitpold Arena was set here and directed by Leni 
Riefenstahl. The film  
Triumph of the Will 
 documents a rally held in this city, which was where Hermann 
Goering and Rudolf Hess were put on trial. For 10 points, name this German city, whose Palace of Justice 
hosted post-World War II war crimes trials. 
ANSWER:  
Nuremberg 
052-13-93-02106 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  1 of 9 
7. Meromictic types of these geologic structures are stratified, and their topmost layer is called the 
epilimnion. During the fall overturn, the thermocline in these structures disappears. Buildup of point bars 
creates oxbow types of these structures from a meander. Retreating glaciers can create the kettle type of 
these structures, an artificial type of which may be called a reservoir. For 10 points, identify these 
landlocked bodies of water such as Ontario and Erie. 
ANSWER:  
lake 
s [prompt on  
pond 
s] 
228-13-93-02107 
8. At one point in the work in which he appears, this character recalls his childhood admiration for a certain 
timpanist. Earlier, he tells another character that he has just had an operation on his clavichord, and he tells 
Mrs. Morrow that he has a brain tumor using the alias \"Rudolf Schmidt.\" He meets up with Carl Luce, talks 
about  
Romeo and Juliet 
 with a nun, and has a conversation with Phoebe after being expelled from Pencey. 
For 10 points, name this narrator of  
The Catcher in the Rye 
. 
ANSWER:  
Holden 
 Caulfield [or  olden  
H Caulfield 
; prompt on  
Caulfield 
] 
142-13-93-02108 
9. Thomas Gates attempted to abandon this colony, but it was saved by the timely arrival of Baron de la 
Warr. Under Governor William Berkley, it was burned down during Bacon's Rebellion. Earlier, John Rolfe 
pioneered the cultivation of tobacco in this colony. A \"Starving Time\" was provoked in this colony by 
hostility from the nearby Powhatan. For 10 points, name this Virginia settlement that was the first 
permanent English settlement in America. 
ANSWER:  
Jamestown 
 Colony 
139-13-93-02109 
10. In one novel by this writer, a door tied with a crepe streamer is compared to a porch dangled with dead 
cucumber vines as the title character imagines the death of his wife Zeena. In another novel by this writer, 
May Welland remains a loyal wife despite her suspicions that her cousin Countess Ellen Olenska is having 
an affair with her husband Newland Archer. For 10 points, name this American writer who wrote  
Ethan 
Frome 
 and  
The Age of Innocence. 
ANSWER: Edith  
Wharton 
 [or Edith Newbold  
Jones 
] 
130-13-93-02110 
11. This protein, stored biologically as a hexamer, has histidine residues coordinated to zinc atoms, which 
break apart in its active monomeric form. Because this protein only has fifty-one amino acids, it was the 
first protein to be sequenced, by Frederick Sanger in 1951. Overproduction of it may lead to hypoglycemia. 
This hormone prompts the liver to uptake glucose as glycogen. For 10 points, name this protein which, like 
glucagon, is synthesized in the pancreas. 
ANSWER:  
insulin 
190-13-93-02111 
12. The only member of this group to die was Charles Floyd, who succumbed to illness despite taking the 
“thunder clappers” created by Benjamin Rush. Its leaders negotiated an alliance with the Hidatsa people 
while wintering at Fort Mandan. Civilians associated with this group included the slave York and the 
trapper Toussaint Charbonneau, whose wife Sacagawea lent valuable translation skills. For 10 points, name 
this group which explored the Louisiana Purchase. 
ANSWER:  
Lewis and Clark 
 expedition [or  
Corps of Discovery 
] 
015-13-93-02112 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  2 of 9 
13. This man wrote a parody of Robert Southey’s eulogy for George III called  
The Vision of Judgment. 
This poet of  
Manfred 
 also created a man who is kidnapped by his lover Haidee’s pirate father and who is 
easily seduced by women, inverting the Spanish legend. This poet wrote  
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage 
 and  
Don Juan 
 (JOO-uhn). For 10 points, name this philandering Romantic poet who died in the Greek War of 
Independence. 
ANSWER: Lord  
Byron 
 [or George  
Gordon 
] 
030-13-93-02113 
14. Hiram Bingham discovered a city of this empire which is believed to have been built for Emperor 
Pachacuti (PACH-uh-koo-tee). This empire used knotted ropes called quipu (KEE-poo) for record-keeping. 
A conflict in this empire pitted Huascar (HWASS-car) against a man who was captured at Cajamarca 
(ca-ha-MAR-ka) and ransomed for a roomful of gold, Atahualpa (aht-uh-WALL-puh). For 10 points, name 
this empire which contained Machu Picchu, and was located in modern-day Peru. 
ANSWER:  
Inca 
n Empire 
122-13-93-02114 
15. Velocity is crossed with this phenomenon in the definition of the Lorentz force. This phenomenon is 
related to electric current by Ampere's law, and Faraday's law relates the change in it to the production of a 
voltage. Inductors store energy in this phenomenon, which is typically called the B or H field. It can be 
measured in gauss or teslas. For 10 points, identify this phenomenon whose namesake lines connect the 
north and south poles of a magnet. 
ANSWER:  
magnetic field 
 [or  
B field 
 until it is read; or  
H field 
 until it is read] 
234-13-93-02115 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 2 
Directed Round 
1A.  What mountain in Argentina is the highest peak in the Andes? 
ANSWER:  
Aconcagua 
1B.  What British physicist came up with a namesake law of cooling and realized gravitational force varied 
with the inverse-square of distance? 
ANSWER: Isaac  
Newton 
2A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the area of a rhombus with two sixty degree angles 
and sides of length 2? 
ANSWER:   times the square  
2 root 
 of  
3 
2B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the cosecant of the third-quadrant angle whose 
tangent is 4/3? 
ANSWER:  
-5/4 
3A.  What city was the site of a fatal July 6, 2013, plane crash involving Asiana Airlines Flight 214? 
ANSWER:  
San Francisco 
3B.  What Heian-era woman wrote the early Japanese novel  
The Tale of Genji 
? 
ANSWER: Lady  
Murasaki 
 [or  
Murasaki 
 Shikibu] 
4A.  Lord Dunmore's 1775 seizure of Williamsburg's munitions re-entered the public conscience after what 
first doll in the American Girls Collection was written to have experienced it? 
ANSWER:  
Felicity 
 Merriman [or Felicity  
Merriman 
] 
4B.  Identify the island whose namesake Vespers involved the massacre of Frenchmen in a revolt against 
the Angevin king Charles I. 
ANSWER:  
Sicily 
 [or  
Sicilia 
] 
5A.  What English engineer created the world’s first computer with his “difference engine”? 
ANSWER: Charles  
Babbage 
5B.  In German, the choice of which article, \"der,\" \"die,\" or \"das,\" is correct is governed by what property 
of a noun? 
ANSWER: grammatical  
gender 
6A.  Name the Renaissance sculptor of  
Gatamellata 
 (\"GAH\"-tah mel-\"LAH\"-tah) and a bronze  
David 
. 
ANSWER:  
Donatello 
 [or Donato di Niccolo di Betto  
Bardi 
] 
6B.  Which American actor has starred as Sherlock Holmes and played Tony Stark in three  
Iron Man 
films? 
ANSWER: Robert John  
Downey 
 Jr. 
7A.  According to Sigmund Freud, what section of the psyche is driven by the pleasure principle and 
satisfies libido? 
ANSWER:  
id 
7B.  What African country’s Westgate shopping mall was attacked by an Islamic militant group in 
September 2013, resulting in over 60 deaths? 
ANSWER:  
Kenya 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  4 of 9 
8A.  What lake sits in the caldera of the collapsed volcano Mount Mazama in Oregon? 
ANSWER:  
Crater 
 Lake 
8B.  What poetic foot consists of a stressed syllable followed by an unstressed one? 
ANSWER:  
trochee 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all values between 0 and 180 degrees for which sine 
squared of x equals 3 times cosine squared of x. 
ANSWER:   and  
60 120 
 degrees [both answers required, do not prompt on just one] 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If a data set consists of 5 distinct positive integers, with mean 
7, what is the largest the median could be? 
ANSWER:  
9 
10A.  The Super Bowl championship is named for what legendary coach of the Green Bay Packers, who 
won the first two Super Bowls? 
ANSWER: Vince  
Lombardi 
10B.  What Mesopotamian hero befriends Enkidu and spurns Ishtar in a namesake epic? 
ANSWER:  
Gilgamesh 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 2 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One type of this phenomenon involves internal conversion and can be caused by neutron capture. In 
another type of this phenomenon, a positron and a neutrino are emitted and the atomic number decreases by 
1. This property is exhibited when an energetic helium nucleus is emitted from an atom of uranium-238. 
Some isotopes of lighter elements also have this property, which enables carbon dating. For 10 points, 
alpha and beta decay are forms of what decomposition of unstable atomic nuclei? 
ANSWER:  
radioactivity 
 [or  
radioactive 
 decay] 
142-13-93-02117 
2. At the beginning of this play, a man refers to a woman as his “little squirrel.” It ends with a woman 
saying she has “never exchanged one serious word” with her husband. A character in this play is Dr. Rank, 
who suffers from syphilis. The protagonist illegally borrows money from her husband’s work and is 
blackmailed by Krogstad. This play ends with a woman slamming the door as she walks out on her banker 
husband. For 10 points, name this Henrik Ibsen play about Torvald and Nora Helmer. 
ANSWER:  
A  Doll's House 
 [or  
Et  dukkehjem 
] 
052-13-93-02118 
3. Nine of these pieces appear in the  
Goldberg Variations, 
 each with an increasing interval size. More 
complex types of this technique include mensuration, retrograde, and inversion. \"Frere Jacques\" and \"Row, 
Row, Row Your Boat\" are the most famous pieces to use this technique, in which an imitation of a melody 
is played some time after it is first introduced. For 10 points, name this technique used in the most famous 
piece by Pachelbel. 
ANSWER:  
canon 
063-13-93-02119 
4. In one of these passages, a widow annoys an indifferent judge persistently enough that he eventually 
gives her justice. In another of these passages, a man envies his pigs the pods they eat after he squanders 
his inheritance. One of these passages praises a man who helps a robbery victim by the roadside. These 
passages include ones about the Prodigal Son and the Good Samaritan. For 10 points, name these short, 
often allegorical stories related to the disciples by Jesus. 
ANSWER:  
parable 
s 
014-13-93-02120 
5. The Sackur-Tetrode equation gives this quantity for an ideal gas. The derivative of temperature with 
respect to pressure equals the derivative of volume with respect to this quantity by the Maxwell relations. 
Boltzmann derived this quantity as proportional to the natural log of the number of microstates. The second 
law of thermodynamics states that it increases with time in a closed system. For 10 points, name this 
physical quantity that measures the total disorder of a system. 
ANSWER:  
entropy 
127-13-93-02121 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  6 of 9 
6. This thinker believed that sympathy works by turning \"ideas\" of another person’s passion into what he 
called \"impressions\" in the mind. Summaries of this man’s work ended the \"dogmatic slumber\" of 
Immanuel Kant. He allowed induction only in the ase of a \"missing shade of blue\" in a book drawing on his 
earlier  
Treatise of Human Nature. 
 For 10 points, name this Enlightenment empiricist skeptic who wrote an  
Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding 
 in his native Scotland. 
ANSWER: David  
Hume 
104-13-93-02122 
7. An antagonist in this poem, a descendant of Cain pained by drunken singing, was re-imagined in a novel 
by John Gardner. This poem, which begins by praising Scyld Scefing (SHIELD SHEAF-ing) and includes 
the skeptical Unferth, was retranslated in 1999 by Seamus Heaney. Its title hero, who dies fighting a 
dragon, comes from Geatland to the hall of Heorot and slays the beastly mother of his first opponent, 
Grendel. For 10 points, name this Old English epic. 
ANSWER:  
Beowulf 
104-13-93-02123 
8. These compounds usually have low-energy LUMOs. Inorganic examples of these compounds include 
boron trifluoride and ammonium chloride. Adjacent electronegative elements increase the strength of these 
compounds because they can better stabilize a negative charge. These substances can accept electrons 
according to the Lewis theory but are often proton donors in solution. For 10 points, name these 
compounds which turn litmus paper red and taste sour. 
ANSWER: Lewis  
acid 
s [or Bronsted-Lowry  
acid 
s; or Arrhenius  
acids 
] 
190-13-93-02124 
9. A novel by this man tells the story of Joel Knox discovering his homosexuality while growing up in 
Louisiana. In addition to writing  
Other Voices, Other Rooms 
, this man described Alvin Dewey’s tracking 
of Perry Smith and Eugene Hickock for the murder of the Clutter family in another work. For 10 points, 
name this author who created Holly Golightly, the author of  
In Cold Blood 
 and  
Breakfast at Tiffany’s 
 who 
was the basis for Dill in  
To Kill a Mockingbird 
. 
ANSWER: Truman  
Capote 
123-13-93-02125 
10. A function F taking in this type of data as inputs equals x times F plus x prime times F prime, according 
to Shannon's expansion theorem. An expression outputting this type of data appears in the first line of a 
while loop. Conjunction and disjunction are operations applied to this type of data, which Ludwig 
Wittgenstein first manipulated in \"tables\". For 10 points, name this type of data which can only take on two 
values, true and false, named for a British logician. 
ANSWER:  
Boolean 
 data [or  
logical 
 data; or  
true and false 
 before mention; prompt on “truths”] 
190-13-93-02126 
11. This letter denotes the quotient of the minimum and maximum stresses in a fatigue test. At constant 
pressure, heat capacity of an ideal gas equals five-halves times a quantity symbolized by this letter. The 
correlation coefficient is represented by this letter. Species which reproduce quickly and provide little 
paternal nurturing are described by this letter, as opposed to K. The side chain of an amino acid is 
symbolized with this capital letter. For 10 points, name this letter which denotes the gas constant. 
ANSWER:  
r 
190-13-93-02127 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  7 of 9 
12. Henry and Bill only appear in the beginning of this novel, but are introduced to Kiche, this title 
character's mother, who kills their dogs. Lip-lip leads the others in his village in tormenting him. He is first 
traded when Grey Beaver goes to Fort Yukon and passes him to Beauty Smith, who is interested in using 
him for fights. This book's title character is eventually tamed by Weedon Scott, who takes him in and 
integrates him into his family. For 10 points, name the Jack London book about dog that is part-wolf. 
ANSWER:  
White Fang 
147-13-93-02128 
13. This country’s northernmost point is a cape named after the philanthropist Morris Jesup. The capital of 
this country was originally known as “Godt-Haab.” It is home to the world’s largest national park, and its 
northern peninsula is named “Peary Land” after the explorer Robert Peary. This island’s name was 
supposedly given by Erik the Red as a way to attract settlers. For 10 points, name this largest island in the 
world, which despite greater autonomy, is still controlled by Denmark. 
ANSWER:  
Greenland 
 [or  
Kalaallit Nunaat 
] 
052-13-93-02129 
14. An annual prize named for this painter is awarded to the best artist under 50. He made a watercolor of 
the 1834 burning of the Houses of Parliament, which he then developed into two different paintings. In 
another painting by this artist, sailors prepare for an approaching typhoon by throwing slaves overboard. 
This \"painter of light\" depicted a train on the Great Western Railway barreling into the foreground of one 
of his landscapes. For 10 points, name this painter of  
Rain, Steam, and Speed 
. 
ANSWER: John Mallord William  
Turner 
190-13-93-02130 
15. The Slaughter-House cases largely stripped the power of this amendment’s Privileges and Immunities 
Clause. Rulings under this amendment are often later applied to Washington D.C. under the Fifth 
Amendment, since both have Due Process clauses. This amendment may be best known for its Equal 
Protection Clause, which prevents state discrimination against protected classes. For 10 points, name this 
amendment to the Constitution which granted freed slaves citizenship. 
ANSWER:  
Fourteenth 
 Amendment 
015-13-93-02131 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 2 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. These organisms have two mating types: a and alpha. The first eukaryotic genome to be sequenced was 
of one of these organisms.  
S. pombe 
 is one of these organisms, which also include  
Candida albicans 
 and  
Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
. These organisms metabolize glucose to carbon dioxide and ethanol, reproduce 
by budding, and are classified as both ascomycotes and basidiomycotes. For 10 points, name these 
unicellular fungi which undergo fermentation. 
ANSWER:  
yeast 
s [or  
S accharomyces  cerevisiae 
 before mention; or  
S accharomyces  pombe 
 before 
mention; prompt on “fungi”; prompt on “ascomycotes” or “Ascomycota”; prompt on “basidiomycotes” or 
“Basidiomycota”] 
190-13-93-02132 
2. This party’s views were explained in the Tamworth Manifesto, and it was the target of the Midlothian 
campaign. A leader of this party split his party by repealing the Corn Laws and earlier founded the London 
Metropolitan Police Force. During the late 1800’s, a leader of it was the main rival of William Gladstone. 
This party is also known as the “Tory Party.” For 10 points, name this British political party of Robert Peel 
and Benjamin Disraeli, which opposed the Liberal Party. 
ANSWER:  
Conservative 
 and Unionist Party of the United Kingdom [or  
Tory 
 until mentioned] 
052-13-93-02133 
3. This property defines the threshold where pahoehoe lava changes to a’a lava. Substances that include 
long-chain alkane molecules have high values for this property because of hydrogen bonds. This property 
always decreases as temperature as temperature increases and is measured in Poise. Stokes's law describes 
this property in laminar flow and Reynolds's number is a dimensionless parameter of the ratio of this 
property. For 10 points, name this internal resistance to flow in fluids. 
ANSWER:  
viscosity 
124-13-93-02134 
4. This author wrote a satire of the misogynist mindset in a work in  
Corbaccio 
, or  
The Crow. 
 Another of his 
poems was the basis for Chaucer's  
The Knight's Tale 
 and another tells the story of Trolio and Creseida. This 
author of  
Teseida 
 and  
Il Filostrato 
 is better known for a set of stories, including that of the Patient Griselda, 
told by ten people fleeing the plague. For 10 points, name this medieval Italian author of the  
Decameron 
. 
ANSWER: Giovanni  
Boccaccio 
040-13-93-02135 
5. At the end of this novella, the narrator's \"indistinct and silent\" demeanor is compared to \"the pose of a 
meditating Buddha.\" This novella begins with a description of a \"cruising yawl\" called the  
Nellie 
 on the 
Thames. One character in this novella lies to a woman by telling her that the final words of a dead man 
were her name, when they were in fact \"The Horror! The Horror!\" For 10 points, identify this novella about 
an ivory trader named Kurtz and a man named Marlow in the Belgian Congo, a work by Joseph Conrad. 
ANSWER:  
Heart of Darkness 
189-13-93-02136 
What English philosopher described the  
tabula rasa 
 in his  
An Essay Concerning Human Understanding 
? 
ANSWER: John  
Locke 
This is a calculation question. From a standard deck of cards, diamonds are removed until the probability of 
drawing one is less than 1/6. How many diamonds are removed? 
ANSWER:  
6 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     2     Page  9 of 9 
