VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 4 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This quantity can be expressed as the derivative of Helmholtz free energy with respect to temperature, 
and can also be expressed as Boltzmann’s constant times the natural log of the microstates. This quantity 
can be described as a system’s tendency towards positions with higher probabilities, and the second law of 
thermodynamics indicates that it is always increasing. For 10 points, identify this property which is 
sometimes described as the disorder of a system, symbolized S. 
ANSWER:  
entropy 
189-12-71-04101 
2. One section of this novel is written as a hallucinatory play in which Edward VII appears while a 
protagonist fights with Private Carr. This novel opens as \"stately, plump Buck Mulligan\" performs a mass 
with shaving tools, and it concludes with a stream-of-consciousness monologue by the protagonist's wife, 
Molly. This novel follows the half-Jewish Leopold Bloom and the writer Stephen Dedalus through episodes 
like \"Circe,\" \"Telemachus,\" and \"Eumaeus.\" For 10 points, name this modernist novel inspired by the  
Odyssey 
 and written by James Joyce. 
ANSWER:  
Ulysses 
080-12-71-04102 
3. This organ contains specialized macrophages known as Kupffer cells, and it is the site of albumin 
production. This organ is responsible for converting ammonia into urea, and it is the site of 
gluconeogenesis. This organ is also the site of lipid and cholesterol synthesis, and this organ also produces 
bile. For 10 points, identify this organ which can be afflicted by hepatitis, and which can be afflicted by 
cirrhosis in cases of alcoholism. 
ANSWER:  
liver 
189-12-71-04103 
4. This author wrote about a Women's Tribunal that tries a magical fish for fostering male chauvinism in  
The Flounder. 
 In another of his books, the protagonist is imprisoned in a mental asylum for the murder of 
Sister Dorothea. This author included  
Cat and Mouse 
 and  
Dog Years 
 in a set of three novels beginning with 
one in which Oskar Matzerath stops his own growth at age three. For 10 points, name this postwar German 
author of  
The Tin Drum. 
ANSWER: Günter  
Grass 
 [Günter Wilhelm  
Grass 
] 
080-12-71-04104 
5. In finance, a quantity denoted beta measures this value for an asset. Attempts by companies to set prices 
based on an average value for this quantity lead to a market failure called adverse selection. Daniel 
Kahneman and Amos Tversky examined its effect on decision-making in creating prospect theory. 
Diversification can reduce this quantity, as occurs in hedge funds; when it is non-diversifiable, it can be 
\"spread\" through insurance. For 10 points, name this measure of volatility that, when high, can correlate 
with high returns. 
ANSWER:  
risk 
 [or  
volatility 
 before it is read] 
080-12-71-04105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  1 of 9 
6. James Clerk Maxwell modified Ampere’s law by adding a term for the “displacement” type of this 
quantity. This quantity can be written as the dot product of its namesake density, symbolized J, and 
cross-sectional area. This quantity can be measured using a galvanometer, and according to Ohm’s law, 
this quantity is equal to voltage divided by resistance. For 10 points, name this quantity measured in 
amperes that describes the rate of flow of electric charge. 
ANSWER: electric  
current 
014-12-71-04106 
7. Maxwell Taylor headed a \"study group\" that reported on lessons that were learned from this event. One 
component of this event was a \"deception flight\" flown by a B-26 numbered 933. Officially known as 
Operation Pluto and Operation Zapata, this event included a planned landing at the foothills of the 
Escambray Mountains. The participants in this event were exiles from the Batista regime and were trained 
in several South Florida facilities by the CIA. For 10 points, name this botched 1961 attempt to overthrow 
Castro. 
ANSWER:  
Bay of Pigs 
 Invasion [or  
Operation Trinidad 
; or  
Operation Pluto 
 before read; or  
Operation 
Zapata 
 before read] 
020-12-71-04107 
8. This character was raised by his Aunt Clara and hallucinates her scolding him at the end of the novel he 
appears in. This man was chased out of Weed on accusations of rape and is given a puppy by the “jerkline 
skinner” Slim. This figure’s fate is foreshadowed by the death of Candy’s dog. Constantly dreaming of 
being able to take care of the rabbits, he loves to pet soft things and accidentally breaks the neck of 
Curley’s wife. For 10 points, name this mentally disabled ranch hand who is shot by his friend George at 
the conclusion of  
Of Mice and Men. 
ANSWER:  
Lennie 
 Small [or Lennie  
Small 
] 
052-12-71-04108 
9. Properties of this substance can be measured with a CTD instrument. Samples of this substance can be 
obtained with a Niskin bottle. A secchi disk is used to measure the transparency of this substance. The 
presence and size of objects in this substance can be detected using SONAR. For 10 points, identify this 
substance that occupies most of the surface of the Earth and which typically has a salinity of about 35 parts 
per thousand. 
ANSWER: ocean  
water 
 [or sea  
water 
] 
066-12-71-04109 
10. This leader dealt with American sailors being rowdy in Valparaiso in Chile after those sailors 
disembarked from the USS  
Baltimore 
. This running mate of Levi Morton dealt with the high-spending 
Billion Dollar Congress, signing the silver purchase and anti-trust acts of John Sherman and a tariff named 
for then-Senator William McKinley. For 10 points, name this Republican President who served between 
the two terms of Grover Cleveland, a grandson of the ninth president, William Henry. 
ANSWER:  enjamin  
B Harrison 
 [prompt on  
Harrison 
] 
104-12-71-04110 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  2 of 9 
11. This figure asks her friend “Jacque” if she might touch her breasts but is denied. This figure addresses 
most of her prose to someone named “Kitty,” who is likely an imaginary friend. She receives her first kiss 
from Peter and writes that she still believes “people are really good at heart.” Along with the Van Daans, 
Mr. Dussel, and her father, Otto, this figure spends her time in the upper room of her father’s office 
building in Amsterdam. For 10 points, name this Jewish girl whose diary documents her family’s attempt 
to hide during World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Anne 
 Frank [or Anne  
Frank 
; or  
Annelies 
 Frank; or Annelies  
Frank 
] 
052-12-71-04111 
12. This state was served by Hiram Revels, the first black Congressman. James Chaney, Andrew Goodman, 
and Michael Schwermer were murdered in this state in 1964 while working on Freedom Summer, and 
James Meredith integrated its state university. This state at the southern end of the historical Natchez Trace 
trail is also where John Pemberton surrendered at Vicksburg. For 10 points, name this Southern state that 
once had as Senator the future Confederate president, Jefferson Davis. 
ANSWER:  
Mississippi 
104-12-71-04112 
13. This player's 2008 dunk over Kevin Garnett prompted Kevin Harlan to exclaim that it was done \"with 
no regard for human life.\" This player scored twenty-five consecutive points in a double-overtime victory 
over the Pistons in the 2007 Eastern Conference Finals. Dan Gilbert wrote a vitriolic letter attacking this 
player's decision to take his talents to South Beach in July of 2010. For 10 points, identify this NBA 
superstar who left the Cleveland Cavaliers to join Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade on the Miami Heat. 
ANSWER: LeBron  
James 
 [prompt  
LBJ 
] 
189-12-71-04113 
14. The reciprocal of density is called the “specific” type of this quantity. Through is \"b\" constant, the van 
der Waals equation accounts for the fact that this quantity is nonzero for the particles being described. The 
product of this quantity and pressure appears in the ideal gas law, and this quantity is directly proportional 
to temperature in Charles’s law. Density is calculated as mass divided by this quantity. For 10 points, name 
this quantity describing the amount of space taken up by an object. 
ANSWER:  
volume 
014-12-71-04114 
15. In one novel set in this country, Maureen and Bamford Smales flee to a village with the title servant 
woman. In another work set in this country, the lawyer Mr. Carmichael defends the accused murderer of 
activist Arthur Jarvis. That novel set here ends with the execution of Absalom, the son of pastor Stephen 
Kumalo. This is the home country of the author of  
July’s People, 
 Nadine Gordimer, as well as Alan Paton. 
For 10 points, name this country, the setting of the novel  
Cry, the Beloved Country 
 and other works 
criticizing apartheid policies. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
South Africa 
052-12-71-04115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 4 
Directed Round 
1A.  In 1965, Singapore was expelled from what neighboring country, which it was a part of for the 
previous two years? 
ANSWER:  
Malaysia 
1B.  What outermost of the sun, easily visible during solar eclipses, is much hotter than its surface and 
emits namesake mass ejections? 
ANSWER:  
corona 
2A.  Which tsar of Russia was assassinated by the People's Will and emancipated the serfs? 
ANSWER:  
Alexander II 
 of Russia [or  
Aleksandr Nikolayevich 
] 
2B.  Which type of algorithm in computer science, which uses a divide-and-conquer strategy in its binary 
variety, is used to locate a particular object? 
ANSWER:  
search 
ing algorithm 
3A.  What country’s troops led Operation Lightning Thunder in an attempt to fight the Lord’s Resistance 
Army and capture Joseph Kony? 
ANSWER:  
Uganda 
3B.  Percy Bysshe Shelley wrote what sonnet about a ruined statue of Ramses the Great? 
ANSWER: \" 
Ozymandias 
\" 
4A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the reference angle for the angle 1300 degrees. 
ANSWER:   degrees [or  
40 2pi/9 radians 
; do not accept or prompt on \"2pi/9\"] 
4B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the area of an isosceles triangle whose base is 6 units 
long and whose two legs are each 5 units long? 
ANSWER:   square units 
6 
5A.  What Norse deity wields the hammer Mjolnir (\"me\"-YOL-\"near\") and is the god of thunder? 
ANSWER:  
Thor 
5B.  Which language, whose diacritical marks include  
tashkeel 
, is the basis for our numeral system, and is 
the official language of countries such as Oman and Kuwait? 
ANSWER:  
Arabic 
6A.  Members of what profession in Britain brought down the Edward Heath government in a 1974 strike, 
but were thwarted in a 1985 action against Margaret Thatcher led by the NUM? 
ANSWER: coal  
miner 
s 
6B.  Name this art movement whose glorification of technology and violence can be seen in works by 
Giacomo Balla and Umberto Boccioni. 
ANSWER: Italian  
Futurism 
 [or word forms] 
7A.  What man defeated Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Hastings and became the first Norman king of 
Britain? 
ANSWER:  
William the Conqueror 
 [or  
William I 
 of England; or  
William the Bastard 
; or  
Guillaume le 
Conquerant 
; or  
Guillaume le Batard 
; or  
William II of Normandy 
; prompt on  
William 
] 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all real solutions to the equation (x+3)(x-2) = 6 (READ 
\"quantity x + 3, times quantity x - 2, equals 6\"). 
ANSWER:   and   [must have both, accept either order] 
3 -4 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the probability of selecting a red sock, then a blue 
sock from a drawer that contains, in total, 3 red socks, 2 blue socks, and 5 green socks? 
ANSWER:  
1/15 
 [or  
.067 
; or  
6.7% 
] 
8B.  Members of what religion practice the  
i-tal 
 diet and ritually smoke cannabis? 
ANSWER:  
Rasta 
farianism 
9A.  Euler's solution of the Seven Bridges of Konigsberg problem was an important milestone in the study 
of what mathematical objects made of vertices and edges? 
ANSWER:  
graph 
s 
9B.  What state capital, which forms a metropolitan area with nearby Ewing, overlooks the Delaware River 
despite being in another state? 
ANSWER:  
Trenton 
, New Jersey 
10A.  What Babylonian king promulgated his namesake law code, which often punished 'an eye for an 
eye?' 
ANSWER:  
Hammurabi 
 [or  
Hammurapi 
] 
10B.  Which actor won an Oscar for his role of Lester Burnham in  
American Beauty 
 and also played Lex 
Luthor in  
Superman Returns 
? 
ANSWER: Kevin  
Spacey 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 4 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In linear regression, this letter squared shows how good a fit the regression equation is. Selection that 
favors maximizing the number of offspring without regards to population density is called this type of 
selection. Avogadro's number times Boltzmann's constant gives a constant represented by this letter, the 
ideal gas constant. It refers to a set of numbers that includes algebraic and transcendental numbers in 
addition to the rationals. For 10 points, name this letter that represents the real numbers. 
ANSWER:  
R 
121-12-71-04117 
2. Arias in this opera include “O patria mia” and “Ritnorna vincitor.” The first act of this opera includes a 
ceremony involving priestesses in the Temple of Vulcan, and one figure in this opera professes her love for 
another after she is tricked by Amneris. Other characters in this opera include a king named Amonasro and 
a priest named Ramfis, and the title figure in this opera dies with her lover, Radames. For 10 points, 
identify this Giuseppi Verdi opera about the title Ethiopian princess. 
ANSWER:  
Aida 
189-12-71-04118 
3. In one chapter of this work, several characters soliloquize on the meaning of an Ecuadorean doubloon 
nailed to a post. One character is this work worships a small, black idol called Yojo. That man frightens the 
narrator when they share a bed together at the Spouter-Inn. Both characters are in the crew of first mate 
Starbuck, who worries about the obsession of the captain of the  
Pequod. 
 For 10 points, name this novel by 
Herman Melville about Captain Ahab's quest for the title white whale. 
ANSWER:  
Moby-Dick 
121-12-71-04119 
4. In this city, Sean Smith’s body was recently recovered from a burning building containing former Navy 
SEALS Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods. This was the founding site and first home of a National 
Transitional Council led by Mustafa Abdul Jalil. In September 2012, an attack in this city, once blamed on 
the YouTube video “Innocence of Muslims”, killed ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three others at a 
US consulate. For 10 points, name this non-capital city where the 2011 revolution started in northeast 
Libya. 
ANSWER:  
Benghazi 
, Libya 
104-12-71-04120 
5. This thinker asks how his reader would react to the news that one must live the same life over and over, 
forever, in a work which also describes a madman wandering with a lantern. He argued in  
On the 
Genealogy of Morals 
 that Christianity brought about a “slave morality” that doesn’t respect the will to 
power, and hailed the coming of an  
ubermensch 
. For 10 points, name this German philosopher who wrote  
The Gay Science 
 and  
Also Sprach Zarathustra 
, who declared “God is dead” before going mad. 
ANSWER: Friedrich Wilhelm  
Nietzsche 
104-12-71-04121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  6 of 9 
6. This scientist's findings about atomic weights and molecular formulas were popularized by Stanislao 
Cannizzaro. This scientist's gas law states that, at a constant pressure and temperature, the volume of a gas 
is directly proportional to the amount of gas present. This man's number gives the amount of molecules in a 
mole of a given substance. For 10 points, identify this scientist who names the number 6.022 times 10 to 
the 23rd power. 
ANSWER: Lorenzo Romano Amedeo Carlo  
Avogadro 
023-12-71-04122 
7. The title character of this work angrily tells another, “You can’t eat the orange and throw the peel 
away!” One character in this work is upset when another woman is in possession of his mother’s stockings 
and later burns a pair of sneakers. Howard Wagner fires this work’s protagonist, whose older brother, Ben, 
made a fortune in the diamond mines of Africa. Other characters in this work include Linda, Happy, and 
Biff. For 10 points, identify this Arthur Miller play about the last days of Willy Loman. 
ANSWER:  
Death of a Salesman 
189-12-71-04123 
8. This region is legendarily home to a bird with metallic wings who brings luck to any miner who can 
follow it without being caught. This region was once home to the world’s largest natural supply of sodium 
nitrate, but is now riddled with over a hundred abandoned mining towns. The weather in this area can 
possibly be blamed on the Humboldt current and the South Pacific High creating an inversion layer which 
results in the high level of aridity. For 10 points, name this South American region west of the Andes which 
is considered the driest desert in the world. 
ANSWER:  
Atacama 
 Desert 
052-12-71-04124 
9. While the invention of this game is officially credited to Charles Darrow, it was effectively designed by 
Lizzie Magie as a way to demonstrate the philosophy of Henry George. A children’s version of this game 
has the player running a water slide and a roller coaster. The original locations in this game were named 
after real places in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Tokens in this game include a thimble and a battleship. For 
10 points, name this board game in which the player tries to avoid going to jail while buying properties like 
Boardwalk and Park Place. 
ANSWER:  
Monopoly 
 [or  
Monopoly Junior 
; or  
The  Landlord’s Game 
] 
052-12-71-04125 
10. This poet concluded \"And yet, God has not said a word!\" in a poem whose speaker uses \"one long 
yellow string\" of his love's hair to strangle her. This author of \"Porphyria's Lover\" wrote a poem whose 
speaker points to a bronze statue of Neptune cast by Claus of Innsbruck after moving on from a painting by 
Fra Pandolf of the title character. In that dramatic monologue, this poet wrote of a nobleman who 
complains his ex-wife's heart was \"too soon made glad\" and implies that he had her killed. For 10 points, 
name this Victorian poet of \"My Last Duchess.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Browning 
080-12-71-04126 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  7 of 9 
11. One condition resulting from defects in this organ is Meckel's diverticulitis. This organ features the 
Crypts of Lieberkuhn and Brunner's glands, and contains lymphoid tissue known as Peyer's Patches. It 
begins at the Sphincter of Oddi and is made up of the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. This organ's 
microvilli help it absorb nutrients from the food that passes through it. For 10 points, name this organ that 
receives food from the stomach, which has a \"large\" counterpart. 
ANSWER:  
small intestine 
192-12-71-04127 
12. This composer was inspired by a storm in Majorca to repeat the note A-flat in imitation of the title 
phenomenon in his  
Raindrop Prelude 
, which is similar to the third of his four ballades. Famous pieces by 
this composer include a work inspired by the November Uprising in his home country, the funeral march 
from his second piano sonata, and a piece depicting a small dog chasing its tail, whose title does not reflect 
its duration. For 10 points, the  
Revolutionary Etude 
 and  
Minute Waltz 
 were composed by what Pole? 
ANSWER: Frédéric François  
Chopin 
020-12-71-04128 
13. These particles undergo a decrease in energy in the Raman effect and the Compton effect, in contrast to 
the elastic interaction they undergo in Rayleigh scattering. The energy of one of these particles is given by 
the product of Planck’s constant and its frequency, and Thomas Young fired these particles at a double slit 
in an experiment demonstrating their wave nature. For 10 points, name these particles that comprise 
electromagnetic radiation such as visible light. 
ANSWER:  
photon 
s 
014-12-71-04129 
14. One of this artist's works depicts himself in his studio painting a wreathed model carrying a book and 
trumpet as Clio. This artist of  
The Allegory of Painting 
 painted a woman in yellow and blue standing in 
front of a table full of broken bread and pouring the title liquid of another work. In another work by this 
artist of  
The Milkmaid 
, a turbaned woman wears the title piece of jewelry. For 10 points, name this Dutch 
artist from Delft who painted  
Girl with a Pearl Earring 
. 
ANSWER: Jan  
Vermeer 
 [or Johannes  
Vermeer 
] 
080-12-71-04130 
15. One component of this project was produced by  
Rolling Stone 
 editor Timothy Ferris. It resulted in the 
1990 image known as the “Family Portrait,” a mosaic of 60 individual frames. This project also produced 
the photograph “Pale Blue Dot,” which inspired a book by Carl Sagan. This project is best known for 
having its spacecraft contain phonograph records containing sounds and images for viewing by 
extraterrestrials. For 10 points, name this NASA program which launched two unmanned probes in 1977 to 
explore the outer solar system. 
ANSWER:  
Voyager 
 [or  
Voyager 1 
; or  
Voyager 2 
] 
052-12-71-04131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 4 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This poet stated that \"Eden sank to grief, so dawn goes down to day,\" in his \"Nothing Gold Can Stay.\" 
He described a horse who \"gives his harness bells a shake\" in a poem that ends with the repetition of the 
line, \"And miles to go before I sleep.\" Another of his poems states that the speaker \"took the road less 
traveled by, and that has made all the difference.\" For 10 points, name this American poet of \"Stopping by 
Woods on a Snowy Evening\" and \"The Road Not Taken.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Frost 
 [or Robert Lee  
Frost 
] 
192-12-71-04132 
2. This author created the distinction between \"round\" and \"flat\" characters in a series of lectures called  
Aspects of the Novel 
. Margaret Schlegel pleads, \"Only connect!\" in this author's socially-aware novel  
Howard's End 
. This author created Lucy Honeychurch, who falls in love with George Emerson in Florence. 
In another of his novels, Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of assaulting her in the Marabar Caves. For 10 
points, name this English author of  
A Room with a View 
 and  
A Passage to India 
. 
ANSWER: Edward Morgan  
Forster 
080-12-71-04133 
3. Upton Sinclair ran as the Democratic candidate for governor in this state's 1934 election. Another person 
who lost a gubernatorial election in this state after serving as its Senator told reporters they wouldn't have 
him \"to kick around anymore\" in 1962. That man, Richard Nixon, failed to do what another man, 
nicknamed \"the Gipper,\" did in defeating Pat Brown to become governor of this state. For 10 points, 
Ronald Reagan was governor of what state, currently home to Jerry Brown and Nancy Pelosi? 
ANSWER:  
California 
121-12-71-04134 
4. This pathway contains the enzyme sedheptulose biphosphate, and results in the formation of G3P. This 
process includes reduction and regeneration phases, and NADPH acts as a reducing agent during this 
process. This process, which is partially named for Andrew Benson, uses the most abundant protein on 
earth as an enzyme; that enzyme is RuBisCO. Taking place in the stroma of the chloroplasts, for 10 points, 
identify this “dark reaction” which is paired with the light reactions of photosynthesis. 
ANSWER:  
Calvin 
-Benson Cycle [prompt on  
C3 C4 CAM 
,  ,  , or  
carbon fixation 
] 
189-12-71-04135 
5. By evaluating one over n prime times the integral from a to x of quantity x minus t to the n plus f n plus 
one of t dt, this amount can be found for the Taylor series. Performing the modulo operation yields this 
value. A story about a woman who loses a basket of eggs is often used to introduce a method to work 
backwards given several of these values; that is the \"Chinese\" theorem about them. This number is obtained 
alongside a quotient. For 10 points, name this amount left over during a division. 
ANSWER:  
remainder 
 [or  
residual 
] 
020-12-71-04136 
This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the sine of 870 degrees. 
ANSWER:  
1/2 
What author wrote about Ellen Olenska's affair with May Welland's husband, Newland Archer, in  
The Age 
of Innocence 
? 
ANSWER: Edith  
Wharton 
 [or Edith Newbold  
Jones 
] 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     4     Page  9 of 9 
