2012 NHBB Set C 
Bee Round 3 
BEE ROUND 3 
1. This book was translated into English by Nicholas of Hereford on behalf of the Lollards. Another person 
who translated this book into English was William Tyndale. One version of this book is officially called the 
Authorized Version, 
 and St. Jerome translated this book as the Vulgate. Martin Luther translated this text 
into German. For the point, name this book that comes in a King James version and is composed of the 
New and Old Testaments. 
ANSWER: the  
Bible 
 [prompt on  
New Testament Old Testament 
,  , or any individual book of the Bible 
before \"authorized version\" is read] 
149-12-64-13101 
2. This document was largely written by Courtney Whitney and Milo Rowell. It provides for a bicameral 
legislature whose upper house was the House of Councillors. It consists of one hundred three articles, 
including Article 9, which states that the people governed by it \"forever renounce war as a sovereign right 
of the nation.\" For the point, name this document approved during U.S. occupation of an Asian island 
nation following World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Constitution 
 of  
Japan 
 [or obvious equivalents mentioning both a  
Constitution 
 and  
Japan 
; or 
obvious equivalents mentioning a  
Constitution 
 and  
Nippon 
 or  
Nihon 
; or  
Postwar Constitution 
; or  
Peace 
Constitution 
; or  
Sengo-Kenpo 
; or  
Heiwa-Kenpo 
] 
003-12-64-13102 
3. One member of this family gained a valuable friend in Carl Buderus after selling Buderus a valuable 
coin. Buderus was an adviser to William of Hesse, whom this family arranged loans for. Lionel was a 
member elected six times as a member of Parliament before being allowed in by the House of Lords, thanks 
to the campaigning by Benjamin Disraeli. This family was active in the push for a Jewish homeland, and 
one member was the recipient of the Balfour Declaration. For the point, name this Jewish banking family. 
ANSWER:  
Rothschild 
s 
121-12-64-13103 
4. A history of one of their rulers, Chan Muan, can be found in murals in the city of Bonampak. The 
ceremonial center of these peoples included the Plaza of the Seven Temples and was Tikal. A popular game 
of this civilization was po-ta-pok. An observatory in one of their cities was known as El Caracol, or “The 
Snail,” and can be found at Chichen Itza. For the point, name this Mesoamerican civilization located in 
southern Mexico and Guatemala that developed a calendar with a 365 day year. 
ANSWER:  
Maya 
ns 
030-12-64-13104 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  1 of 7 
5. One improvement in this device’s history replaced silver chloride with silver iodide and was called 
calotyping. One type of this device uses a part invented at Bell Labs by Willard Boyle and George Smith; 
that part is a charge-coupled device. A system of mirrors and prisms improves the accuracy of the SLR type 
of this device. Early versions of this device created daguerreotypes, which could require exposures of up to 
20 minutes. For the point, name this device used to record images, either digitally or on film. 
ANSWER:  
camera 
132-12-64-13105 
6. In April 2012, a tall glass pyramid designed by Renzo Piano was finished in this city. That building 
nicknamed “the Shard” is the tallest on its continent. Inigo Jones's Banqueting Hall is the only remaining 
building from its Palace of Whitehall. Three domes are nested in a cathedral built by Christopher Wren 
after a 1666 fire destroyed much of this city. Augustus Pugin designed a neo-Gothic parliament building 
here that includes a famous bell tower. For the point, name this city home to Big Ben. 
ANSWER:  
London 
, England [or  
London 
, United Kingdom] 
121-12-64-13106 
7. One speech during this event pointed out the false claims of Klement Gottwald, and this event was 
largely rooted in the Action Program espoused by its leader. This event included the publishing of Ludvik 
Vaculik's \"Two Thousand Words\" manifesto, and this event was met by Soviet invasion. The leader of ths 
event sought to achieve liberalization measures while advocating \"Socialism with a human face.\" For the 
point, identify this 1968 period of political reform, led by Alexander Dubcek in the capital of 
Czechoslovakia. 
ANSWER:  
Prague Spring 
 [or  
Prazske Jaro 
; or  
Prazska Jar 
] 
189-12-64-13107 
8. Near the end of this battle, the defenders failed to withdraw to Gloucester point after redoubts nine and 
ten fell. The defeat of Thomas Graves by the Comte de Grasse cut off supplies before this battle where the 
Comte de Rochambeau and George Washington forced Lord Cornwallis to surrender. For the point, name 
this last major battle of the American Revolution fought on a namesake peninsula. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Yorktown 
 [or Siege of  
Yorktown 
; or Surrender of  
Yorktown 
] 
153-12-64-13108 
9. Cecile Renault was arrested for attempting to assassinate this man, and his followers included Louis de 
Saint-Just. This man promoted the deistic Cult of the Supreme Being, and his rivals included Georges 
Danton. This man was nicknamed \"the Incorruptible,\" and he was overthrown and ultimately guillotined 
during the Thermidorian Reaction. For the point, identify this head of the Committee of Public Safety, who 
was responsible for the deaths of many people during the Reign of Terror in the French Revolution. 
ANSWER: Maximilien Francois Marie Isidore de  
Robespierre 
189-12-64-13109 
10. The capture of Louisbourg (LEW-ee-borg) was a pivotal event in this war, in which the grand-army 
battle style of General Braddock led to disaster. Pontiac's Rebellion followed the end of this war, in which a 
victory on the Plains of Abraham led to the capture of Quebec. It was followed by the Proclamation of 
1763. For the point, name this war between Britain and France, which heavily involved their respective 
North American colonies. 
ANSWER:  
French and Indian 
 War [or  
Seven Years 
 War] 
020-12-64-13110 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  2 of 7 
11. Early employees of this company included Al Alcorn and Warren Robinett, whose work led to this 
company coining the term \"Easter egg\". Anger at this company's CEO Ray Kassar prompted the founding 
of Activision. This producer of the VCS was founded by Ted Dabney and Nolan Bushnell. In Alamagordo, 
New Mexico, it buried millions of unsold copies of  
E.T. the Extraterrestrial 
. For the point, name this early 
video game company, known for its 2600 console and for producing  
Pong 
. 
ANSWER:  
Atari 
 Inc. 
029-12-64-13111 
12. Henry Green and Robert Juet were two figures in a plot against this man, and one of his crewmates, 
John Colman, was killed when shot in the neck by an Indian. He went on an expedition between Svalbard 
and Novaya Zemlya while working for the Muscovy Company. This man first sited the Belcher Islands, 
and his ships included the  
Discovery 
 and the  
Half Moon 
. For the point, name this English explorer for the 
Dutch who tried in vain to find the Northwest Passage and for whom a large Canadian bay is named. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Hudson 
030-12-64-13112 
13. A doctrine known as the dormant “this” is implied in the Constitution and prohibits burdensome state 
laws. Cases involving it are generally ruled upon using rational basis review. John Roberts wrote that it was 
the government’s taxing authority and not this provision that allowed for the individual mandate in the 
Affordable Care Act. For the point, name this provision of the Constitution found in Article 1, Section 8 
which provides the Federal government broad authority to regulate trade within the borders of the United 
States. 
ANSWER:  
Commerce 
 Clause 
030-12-64-13113 
14. This scientist's development of the \"three-color\" theory was used by Thomas Sutton to take one of the 
first color photographs. In 1859, he proposed that Saturn's rings were made of many independent particles 
of matter. He developed a set of namesake relations between the partial derivatives of thermodynamic 
quantities, and he proposed a thought experiment in which the second law of thermodynamics is violated 
by his namesake \"demon.\" For the point, name this Scottish physicist who created 4 equations of 
electromagnetism. 
ANSWER: James Clerk  
Maxwell 
080-12-64-13114 
15. Elizur Butler was arrested for living among these people without a state license. The missionary Samuel 
Worcester helped to start the newspaper of these people, the  
Phoenix. 
 This group's leader John Ross never 
signed the Treaty of New Echota, a treaty which was authorized by the Indian Removal Act of 1830. For 
the point, name this member of the “Five Civilized Tribes” that was forced to walk to Oklahoma on the 
Trail of Tears. 
ANSWER:  
Cherokee 
 people 
121-12-64-13115 
16. Objectives during this battle included the Pegasus Bridge and Caen. US Army Rangers assaulted Point 
du Hoc during this operation. The town of (sant mare eg-LEES) Sainte Mere-Eglise was captured by the 
airborne component of this operation that breached Hitler’s Atlantic Wall. Juno, Gold, Sword, Utah, and 
Omaha were its five beaches. For the point, name this 6 June amphibious assault, a Second World War 
Allied landing in northern France. 
ANSWER:  
D-Day 
 [or  
Normandy landing 
s; or  
Normandy Invasion 
; or  
Battle of Normandy 
; or 
Operation  
Overlord 
; or Operation  
Neptune 
; prompt on  
6 June 1944 
 before mention] 
153-12-64-13116 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  3 of 7 
17. In this work's overture, a pastoral duet for English horn and flute precedes a fast section whose opening 
motive is usually performed with the ricochet bowing technique. The lead tenor, Arnold, must avenge his 
father Melcthal, although he is in love with Mathilde, the princess of Austria. The title character tells 
another character not to move in one aria, after refusing to bow to Gesler's hat. For the point, name this 
Rossini opera in which the title Swiss rebel shoots an apple on his son's head. 
ANSWER:  
William Tell 
 [or  
Guillaume Tell 
] 
142-12-64-13117 
18. This set of conflicts resulted in the burning of the Old Summer Palace, and one portion of this set of 
conflicts was caused in part by Charles Elliot's actions in Kowloon. Another portion of this set of conflicts 
was set off by the storming of the HMS Arrow. Treaties signed at Wangxia and Tientsin were part of the 
Unequal Treaties during this set of conflicts, which also included the Treaty of Nanking. For the point, 
identify this conflict between the Qing Dynasty and Great Britain, sparked by imports of a certain drug. 
ANSWER:  
Opium War 
s 
189-12-64-13118 
19. During this battle, General Bauduin was killed during an engagement at Hougoumont, and this battle 
also included fighting at Plancenoit. This battle was preceded by the Battle of Ligny, and Prussian troops 
were commanded by Gebhard von Blucher during this battle. This battle took place at the end of the 
Hundred Days of the losing commander, who had come back from Elba. For the point, identify this 1815 
victory for the Duke of Wellington in Belgium, which was Napoleon's final defeat. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Waterloo 
189-12-64-13119 
20. This state sends both the longest and second-longest-serving Congressmen to the House. Those 
congressmen are John Conyers and John Dingell. The governor of this state is the former chairman of 
Gateway, Inc. and is Rick Snyder. For the point, name this Midwestern state currently represented through 
the 2012 elections by Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow in the Senate, and where Dave Bing is the mayor of 
Detroit. 
ANSWER:  
Michigan 
030-12-64-13120 
21. One group active during this event, the Brothers of the Cross, performed a certain activity for 
33-and-a-half-day periods. During this event, Edward III of England passed the Statute of Labourers to 
limit wage increases. The University of Paris was considered a center of expertise on its causes, which 
some attributed to Jews poisoning wells. Today, though, it is attributed to  
Yersinia pestis 
 borne by rat fleas. 
For the point, name this 1348-1350 epidemic that killed at least a third of Europe’s population. 
ANSWER:  
Black Death 
 [prompt on bubonic  
plague 
 or black  
plague 
] 
132-12-64-13121 
22. A 2002 plane crash killed a sitting U.S. Senator from this state, Paul Wellstone. A presidential 
candidate from this state lost to Ronald Reagan in the 1984 election; that candidate, Walter Mondale, only 
won electoral votes from the District of Columbia and this state. For the point, name this U.S. state, whose 
current senators are Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and whose representative from the Sixth District is 
Michele Bachmann. 
ANSWER:  
Minnesota 
194-12-64-13122 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  4 of 7 
23. This man published the newspaper  
The Commoner 
 for twelve years. He admitted that he had never 
thought about the consequences of the Biblical account of Joshua making the sun stand still while being 
questioned by Clarence Darrow during the Scopes Monkey Trial. This man was the Democratic nominee 
for President in 1896, 1900, and 1908 and advocated bimetallism. For the point, name this Populist 
politician best known for his “Cross of Gold” speech. 
ANSWER: William Jennings  
Bryan 
131-12-64-13123 
24. Matthew Ridgway spent one year as the military governor of this country. This country’s military was 
responsible for the deaths of ten thousand prisoners of war on an eighty-mile forced march called the 
Bataan Death March. This country was targeted by the Doolittle Raid, and this country’s military 
committed the Rape of Nanking. For the point, name this Pacific country in which atomic bombs were 
dropped on the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 
ANSWER: State of  
Japan 
 [or  
Nihon 
-koku; or  
Nippon 
-koku] 
014-12-64-13124 
25. One disguise adopted by this character is foiled when he forgets his name and nearly kills a rat with a 
lump of lead at the direction of Mrs. Loftus. This character is upset by the death of his friend Buck due to 
the Shepherdson-Grangerford feud. This boy helps protect the Wilks sisters from being scammed by the 
Duke and Dauphin as he attempts to travel north with the escaped slave Jim. For the point, name this boy 
created by Mark Twain, the best friend of Tom Sawyer. 
ANSWER:  
Huckleberry 
 Finn [or Huckleberry  
Finn 
; or  
Huck 
 Finn] 
105-12-64-13125 
26. Troops from this country made up over half of the “Rats of Tobruk.” An invasion of this country by 
Japan was stopped at the Battle of Coral Sea. This country’s “unofficial” national anthem was written by 
Banjo Paterson and is called “Waltzing Matilda.” A cove at the Battle of Gallipoli was named for a group 
composed of soldiers from this country and its smaller neighbor; that was ANZAC. For the point, name this 
member of the Commonwealth that experienced massive flooding in Queensland in 2011. 
ANSWER:  
Australia 
149-12-64-13126 
27. Pope Innocent X condemned this agreement as \"invalid, iniquitous, unjust\" in the bull  
Zelo Domus Dei 
. 
In this treaty, Spain recognized the independence of the Dutch Republic. This treaty reaffirmed the 
principle of (COO-yus RAY-jee-oh, AY-us ray-LEE-jee-oh)  
cuius regio, eius religio 
 defined in the earlier 
Peace of Augsburg. Negotiated in Osnabruck and Munster, this treaty severely weakened the power of the 
Holy Roman Empire over its constituent states. For the point, name this 1648 settlement that ended the 30 
Years' War. 
ANSWER: Peace of  
Westphalia 
 [or Treaty of  
Westphalia 
] 
080-12-64-13127 
28. This politician served as head of the U.S. Liaison Office in Beijing during the Ford administration. 
Upon the election of Jimmy Carter, he resigned from his position as Director of the CIA. He used the term 
“voodoo economics” to criticize Ronald Reagan, who later appointed him as his running mate. As 
president, he ordered Operation Desert Storm against the forces of Saddam Hussein. For the point, name 
this 41st president, the father of another president nicknamed \"Dubya.\" 
ANSWER: George  erbert  alker  
H W Bush 
 [prompt on George  
Bush 
] 
014-12-64-13128 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  5 of 7 
29. During this war, a man was killed at the Battle of Wakefield by the forces of Queen Margaret. During 
it, the “kingmaker,” Richard Neville, was killed at Barnet. Henry VI was captured in this war at the Battle 
of Northampton. At the end of this war, Richard III was killed at Bosworth Field. This war was fought 
between houses represented by red and white flowers. For the point, name this English Civil War that was 
fought between the Houses of York and Lancaster. 
ANSWER: War(s) of the  
Roses 
149-12-64-13129 
30. Jerome Kersey lost the 1987 version of this event, losing to a man who would go on to win the 1988 
version of this event, at the end of which one announcer stated, \"They gave him a fifty!\" The phrase \"And 
that sends everyone reeling!\" was announced during one of these events, another of which led to Vince 
Carter delivering a blow to his elbow. For the point, identify this event during NBA's All Star Weekend, 
which once provided the setting for a high-flying duel between Dominique Wilkins and Michael Jordan. 
ANSWER: National Basketball Association  
Dunk Contest 
 [prompt on NBA  
All Star Weekend 
, but do 
not accept or prompt on “All Star Game”] 
189-12-64-13130 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  6 of 7 
Extra Questions 
31. One resistance movement on this island was led by Caractacus. This island was the site of a 
fortification built by Antonius Pius, a northward extension of a structure extending to Solway Firth. The 
rape of two young Iceni women in this island led to Boudica's revolt. Visited early on by Julius Caesar 
during his campaigns in Gaul, this island was lost in 410 AD, after which it was invaded by Jutes, Angles, 
and Saxons. For the point, Hadrian's Wall was built on what island, the northernmost Roman territory? 
ANSWER: Great  
Britain 
 [or  
Britannia 
; prompt on  
England 
] 
020-12-64-13131 
32. This city is bounded by the Blue Mountains to the east and Lake Macquarie to the south. Bennelong 
Point is a place named from a native interpreter for the British, and is the site of this city's most famous 
building, designed by Jorn Utzon. This city overlooks Botany Bay and hosted the 2000 Summer Olympics. 
For the point, name this place whose shell-like opera house overlooks its harbor, the largest city in 
Australia. 
ANSWER:  
Sydney 
, New South Wales, Australia 
121-12-64-13132 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  7 of 7 
