2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 1 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 3  
Related Tossups &  
Bonuses 
1. One ruler of this nation was overthrown at the Battle of Caseros after persecuting followers of Juan  
Lavalle with the Mazorca, a secret police. In addition to Juan Manuel de Rosas, this nation was led by  
Bartolome Mitre when it fought against Paraguay with Brazil and Uruguay during the War of the Triple  
Alliance, and during the late 1970’s it experienced state persecutions in the Dirty War. Earlier, it was  
ruled by a man supported by the descamisados and succeeded by his wife Isabel. For 10 points, name  
this country ruled by Juan Peron.  
ANSWER:  Argentina 
Bonus: It was founded by Babur after he defeated Ibrahim Lodi at the First Battle of Panipat.  For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this Indian empire.  
ANSWER:  Mughal 
 Empire  
[10] During his reign, this son of Humayun repealed the jizya and enacted other religious reforms  
tolerant of the Hindus.  
ANSWER: Jalaluddin Muhammad  Akbar 
 [or  Akbar the Great ]  
7. An equation relating diffusion and viscous flow is named after Stokes and this man, and an equation  
relating diffusion and conduction in ionic solutions is named for Nernst and this man. John Bell resolved  
a paradox named after this man, Podolsky, and Rosen.  He used osmotic pressure as the basis for his  
investigations into Brownian motion, and proposed the particle theory of light to explain the  
photoelectric effect.  For 10 points, name this physicist who also proposed the equivalence principle and  
other hallmarks of special relativity.  
ANSWER: Albert  Einstein 
Bonus: It is the constant of proportionality between a photon’s frequency and energy.  For 10 points  
each:   
[10] Name this constant, symbolized h, that when divided by two pi gives Dirac’s constant.   
ANSWER:  Planck 
’s constant   
[10] This man’s namesake wavelength is given by Planck’s constant over a particle’s momentum.  He  
hypothesized the wave:particle duality of any moving object.   
ANSWER: Louis  de Broglie 
 ;“de BROY”?  
@. This composer contributed music to Broadway musicals like  Pardon My English  and  Oh Kay!  He  
borrowed the song “Échale Salsita” to compose his  Cuban Overture , and he also composed an opera set  
on Catfish Row that includes the songs “Gone, Gone, Gone” and “Summertime.” This man used blues  
and Charleston rhythms in his Piano Concerto in F, and one of this composer’s works for piano and jazz  
band opens with a clarinet glissando. For 10 points, name this American composer of  Porgy and Bess   
and  Rhapsody in Blue .  
ANSWER: George  Gershwin 
 [or Jacob  Gershovitz ] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 2 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: It includes movements named CThe Grave:SongC and CThe Convalescent.C For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this tone poem, which begins with trumpets playing the rising notes C:G:C.  
ANSWER:  Also Sprach Zarathustra 
 [or  Thus Spake Zarathustra ]  
[10] This German composed  Also Sprach Zarathustra , as well as the opera  Der Rosenkavalier .  
ANSWER:  R 
ichard  Strauss   
D. This author collaborated with Gregory Bateson on  Balinese Character: A Photographic Analysis , and  
Derek Freeman was a critic of this author of  Male and Female . Research with Reo Fortune into the  
Manus of New Guinea is described in part of this authorEs autobiographical book  Blackberry Winter , and  
this cultural determinist wrote a book examining  Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies . For  
10 points, name this author of  Coming of Age in Samoa .  
ANSWER: Margaret  Mead 
Bonus: Robert Merton examined “social structure and” this concept, and it was first defined in CThe  
Division of Labor in Society.C For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this sociological concept, resulting from the breakdown of societal standards and values,  
ultimately causing social instability.  
ANSWER:  anomie 
[10] Emile Durkheim identified anomie as a major cause of the titular occurrence in this study of the  
forces that drive men to kill themselves.  
ANSWER:  Suicide 
F. One neurometabolic disorder resulting from a mutation in these structures is called Leigh’s disease,  
and a malfunction in them can also result in Leber’s hereditary optic neuropathy. These structures  
contain channel proteins called porins, and they release cytochrome C during apoptosis. They contain  
two membranes, with folds in the inner one called cristae. These organelles may have originated as  
endosymbiotic prokaryotes, and they possess their own DNA. For 10 points, name these organelles that  
produce energy in animal cells.  
ANSWER:  mitochondria 
 [accept  mitochondrion ]  
Bonus: It can be decoupled by the protein thermogenin and pumps hydrogen atoms from the matrix  
into the inter:membrane space. For 10 points:  
[10] Name this series of four enzyme complexes within the inner mitochondrial membrane that utilizes  
coenzyme Q in the Q cycle, and produces ATP through oxidative phosphorylation.   
ANSWER:  electron transport chain 
[10] This element is reduced by complex IV of the electron transport chain, and serves as the final  
electron acceptor in the electron transport chain.  
ANSWER:  oxygen 
 [accept  ]  O 
2 
I. One character in this play believes that the Cmind of GodC contains the vastness of the universe, and  
several others sing CBlessed Be the Tie that Binds.C That choir is led by Simon Stimson, a character who  
hangs himself in his attic. At the beginning of this play, a time capsule is placed in a bank. Wally and Mrs.  
Soames are among two dead souls whose voices are heard in its last act, CDeath.C This play is narrated  
by the Stage Manager and is set in GroverEs Corners. For 10 points, name this play in which Emily Webb  
and George Gibbs marry and die, written by Thornton Wilder.  
ANSWER:  Our Town 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 3 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: One of his plays ends with Jerry impaling himself on a knife after a bizarre conversation on a park  
bench. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this playwright of  The Sandbox  and  Zoo Story .  
ANSWER: Edward  Albee 
[10] In this Albee play, Martha and George play some vicious party games with Nick and Honey. Its final  
act reveals that Martha and GeorgeEs son was imaginary all along.  
ANSWER:  Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf 
7. This ruler directly contradicted a papal prohibition to marry the daughter of Count Baldwin of  
Flanders. The later years of his reign saw church reform under his archbishop Lanfranc, as well as the  
defeat of Malcolm Canmore in retribution for his sheltering of Edgar Atheling, the successor of his great  
opponent, Harold Godwinson. He was succeeded on the mainland by Robert II and in England by William  
Rufus. For 10 points, name this victory at the 10II Battle of Hastings, the first Norman king of England.  
ANSWER:  William the Conqueror 
 [or  William I , or  William the Bastard J prompt on CWilliamC]  
Bonus: Although officially established in 1@D@, it is oftentimes dated back to a 17D1 defensive alliance  
between Lübeck and Hamburg. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this economic coalition of German cities that dominated trade in northern Europe for much  
of the late Middle Ages.  
ANSWER:  Hanseatic League 
 [or  Hansa ]  
[10] Among the many ports founded by the Hanseatic League was this city in what is now northern  
Poland.  During the 19L0’s its shipyards were the center of the Solidarity movement.  
ANSWER:  Danzig 
 [or  Gdansk ]  
L. In this people’s belief system, a god represented by the planet Venus was a destructive force who  
failed to shoot down the sun, and their earth goddess wore a necklace of hearts taken from her victims.   
The rain god of this people was depicted with a crown of heron feathers, and carried four jugs, the last  
of which brought destruction.  In addition to Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli, Coatlicue, and Tlaloc, they also  
worshipped a feathered serpent, who was said to one day return by boat. For 10 points, name this  
people of Central America, known for their worship of Quetzalcoatl.  
ANSWER:  Aztec 
s  
Bonus: Usually acting on behalf of his father Nyame, at one point he decided to hoard all of the worldEs  
knowledge in a calabash. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Ashanti god, often depicted as a spider, who gave the world stories after outsmarting  
various creatures.  
ANSWER:  Ananzi 
 [accept  Anansi ]  
[10] Ananzi is an example of this type of god, whose other forms include the Native American Coyote,  
the Chinese Sun Wukong, and occasionally the Greek Hermes.  
ANSWER:  trickster 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 4 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 3  
Category Quiz  
Bonus Choices 
Arts  
Current Events   
Geography  
History  
Literature  
Math Calculation   
Philosophy  
Social Science  
Arts  
Current Events   
Geography  
History  
Literature  
Math Calculation   
Philosophy  
Social Science 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 5 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 3  
Category Quiz Tossups 
9. The title character of one of this manEs plays sees the Latin words Cfly, manC appear on his arm in his  
own blood. This author wrote the line that begins John DonneEs CThe Bait,C and created a character who  
trains a slave named Ithamore to be his evil aid before falling into a boiling cauldron after poisoning his  
own daughter Abigail. He wrote Ccome live with me and be my loveC in CThe Passionate Shepherd to His  
Love.C For 10 points, name this author of  Doctor Faustus  and  The Jew of Malta .  
ANSWER: Christopher  Marlowe 
10. One artist from this country painted  The March of Humanity  and founded the radical magazine  
Machete . Another artist from this country painted  The Epic of American Civilization  on the walls of  
DartmouthEs Baker Library. A third artist from this country painted several self:portraits with monkeys,  
which also display her notable unibrow. Yet another artist from this country painted murals like  Man at  
the Crossroads  and  The Day of the Dead . For 10 points, name this country home to David Siquieros, Jose  
Orozco, Frida Mahlo, and Diego Rivera.  
ANSWER:  Mexico 
11. The city of Gwadar in this country was once an Omani colony, and the Hunza and Nagar valleys are  
known for the longevity of their residents. Chitral and Gilgit are major cities in this countryEs north, and  
the colonial legacy can be seen in city names such as Abbottabad and Jacobabad. Malat and Quetta are  
large cities in this countryEs portion of Baluchistan, and Muzaffarabad is the administrative capital of  
Azad Mashmir. It is home to cities such as Rawalpindi, Multan, Marachi and Lahore.  For 10 points, name  
this country whose capital is Islamabad.  
ANSWER:  Pakistan 
17. In 700D, he became the first NFL quarterback to throw for thirty touchdowns while throwing fewer  
than ten interceptions.  In 700@, he found Freddy Mitchell to convert an improbable fourth and twenty: 
six against Green Bay in the NFC Championship Game.  In 700L, he admitted he did not know the NFL  
had ties after his team tied Cincinnati, and he led his team to the 7009 NFC Championship game, in  
which he led a near:comeback against Arizona.  For 10 points, name this former Syracuse quarterback  
who now starts for the Philadelphia Eagles.  
ANSWER: Donovan  McNabb 
1@. A Ramachandran plot can be constructed by extending a set of rules, developed by this scientist and  
Corey, which deals with the conformation and configuration of the polypeptide backbone. This scientist  
demonstrated that a defect in hemoglobin was the cause of sickle cell anemia, and he was the first to  
propose the concept of orbital hybridization. For 10 points, name this scientist who recommended a  
high intake of Vitamin C, and won Nobel Prizes in both Chemistry and Peace.   
ANSWER: Linus  Pauling 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 6 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1D. This city withstood a siege under the Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV due to its support of Countess  
Matilda. The 179@ Ordinances of Justice established this city’s Signoria, and an event known as the  
Bonfire of the Vanities occurred in this city when it was led by the Dominican monk Savonarola. Pope  
Sixtus IV backed the Pazzi conspiracy, which took place in this city’s cathedral, and it was the center of a  
feud between the Guelph and Ghibelline political factions. For 10 points, name this Italian city that was  
dominated by the Medici family during the 1Fth century.  
ANSWER:  Florence 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 7 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 3  
Category Quiz  
Bonuses 
Arts:  This painting uses fallen spears to create a linear perspective, and features Niccolo da Tolentino  
wearing a magnificent red and gold hat. For 1F points, name this painting of a 1D@7 victory over Siena by  
Paolo Uccello.  
ANSWER:  The  Battle of San Romano 
Current Events:  His attempts to flee the country failed when a company would only accept a wire  
transfer, and Jon Stewart recently blasted CNBC for letting this man off the air with only the question  
CHow does it feel to be a billionaireNC For 1F points, name this perpetrator of what has been described  
as a massive Ponzi scheme.  
ANSWER: Sir Allen  Stanford 
Geography:  Its low salinity made it prone to freezing over as recently as the 1970s, and it is fed by the  
Don and the Muban. For 1F points, name this shallowest sea on earth, connected to the Black Sea at the  
Strait of Merch.  
ANSWER: Sea of  Azov 
History:  The father:in:law of John C. Fremont, this statesman and author of the memoir  Thirty Years’  
View  once fought a duel with Andrew Jackson. For 1F points, name this Missouri senator who earned  
the nickname COld BullionC for his support of hard money.  
ANSWER: Thomas Hart  Benton 
Literature:  In one work, this author told of Helen Graham, who marries the rapscallion Mr. Huntingdon.  
For 1F points, name this author of  Agnes Gray  and  The Tenant of Wildfell Hall , a sibling to the author of  
Villette .  
ANSWER:  A 
nne  Bronte  [prompt on  Bronte J accept  cton  A Bell J prompt on  Bell ]   
Math Calculation:  For 1F points, given a standard F7:card deck, calculate the probability that the top  
two cards are both aces.  Express your answer as a fraction in lowest terms.  
ANSWER:  1/221 
Philosophy:  He preceded William James in founding pragmatism.  For 1F points, name this American  
author of “The Fixation of Belief” and “How to Make Our Ideas Clear.”  
ANSWER: Charles Sanders  Peirce 
Social Science:  Historical ones involved John Law’s Mississippi Company and the tulip trade.  For 1F  
points, name this economic phenomenon in which prices become unsustainable and unreasonably high  
before suddenly collapsing.  
ANSWER:  bubble s 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 8 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 3  
Stretch Phase 
1F. Artistic depictions of this figure suggest that his obesity, ballooning skull, and other deformities  
might have been caused by either Fröhlich’s syndrome or Marfan’s syndrome. Towards the end of his  
reign, he adopted Smenkhkare as his coregent.  Letters from Tushratta were among those excavated  
from his capital, Tell el:Amarna.  He suppressed the worship of Amon:Re, and was succeeded by his son,  
Tutankhamen. For 10 points, name this husband of Nefertiti, who established a cult dedicated to the sun  
disk Aton.  
ANSWER:  Akhnaton 
 [or  Akhenaten J or  Amenhotep IV J or  Amenhopis IV ] 
Bonus: The “total internal” form of this phenomenon is actually a special kind of refraction.  For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this phenomenon by which a wave changes direction at a boundary, bouncing back into the  
medium from which it came rather than refracting into another medium.  
ANSWER:  reflection 
[10] This phenomenon occurs to the reflected wave when it is perpendicular to the refracted wave.  It  
occurs when the vibrations of a transverse wave are confined to a single plane.  
ANSWER:  polarization 
[10] This is the angle of incidence at which an unpolarized incident wave will become a polarized  
reflected wave.  It is equal to the arctangent of the ratio of indices of refraction.  
ANSWER:  Brewster 
’s angle [prompt on  polarization angle ]  
1I. In one of this authorEs works, an encounter with Matya Bagnelli in Nice prompts the daughter of the  
Communist physician Lionel to return to her native country and treat crippled children. Another of her  
novels focuses on the evolving relationship between the Smales and their servant Mwawate. The  
discovery of a corpse by Jacobus prompts the rich industrialist Mehring to reevaluate the state of his life  
in this authorEs  The Conservationist . For 10 points, name this South African author of  Burgher1s Daughter  
and  July1s People .     
ANSWER: Nadine  Gordimer 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 9 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: The Soviet Union experienced a lot of growing pains during the early twentieth century.  For 10  
points each:   
[10] Following the death of Lenin, this leader of the Red Army lost out in a power struggle to Joseph  
Stalin. He fled to Mexico, but was still murdered by a Stalinist assassin in 19D0.  
ANSWER: Leon  Trotsky 
 [or Lev Davidovich  Bronstein ]  
[10] This 1971 to 197L economic plan abandoned “war communism” and even reintroduced private  
ownership.  Viewed as a sell:out, it was likewise assassinated by Joseph Stalin.  
ANSWER:  N 
ew  conomic  olicy [or  ovaya  konomicheskaya  olitika]  E P N E P 
[10] What Stalin did like was this system of prisons and forced:labor camps for political dissidents.  
ANSWER:  Gulag 
 system [or  lavnoye  pravlyeniye Ispravityel’no:Trudovih  G U Lag yeryey I koloniyJ or  Chief  
Administation of Corrective Labor Camps and Colonies ]  
17. The term “shirk” is used in this religion to describe the sin of attributing divine traits to non:divine  
beings. Members of this religion use prayer beads to recite the ninety:nine names of God. Buraq is a  
flying horse that the founder of this religion used to make the “Night Journey,” in which he ascended  
into heaven while visiting Jerusalem. Sects of this religion include the Seveners and the Twelvers, whose  
name denotes how many imams they recognize. For 10 points, name this religion, founded by  
Mohammad, that worships Allah.   
ANSWER:  Islam 
Bonus: The speaker admonishes good men and grave men to Crage, rage against the dying of the light.C  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this poem in which the speaker asks his father to Ccurse, bless me now with your fierce tears,  
I prayC before making the title request.  
ANSWER: C Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night 
C  
[10] CDo Not Go Gentle into That Good NightC is a poem by this British poet of the play  Under Milk Wood  
and the short story collection  Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog .   
ANSWER: Dylan  Thomas 
[10] This other Thomas poem recounts a young man who is held green and dying by time in the titular  
location, which is reminiscent of the Garden of Eden.  
ANSWER: C Fern Hill 
C   
1L. A leading figure at this gathering’s third session was Saint Charles Borromeo.  It only moved to its  
primary site after failures to convene in Mantua and Vicenza. Its most important document is generally  
said to be  Benedictus Deus , issued by Pius IV, and it also issued a namesake “Roman Catechism.” First  
called by Pope Paul III, it organized opposition to Lutheran teachings while expanding the role of the  
new Jesuit order. For 10 points, name this 1FDF to 1FI@ church council, held in northern Italy, that kick: 
started the Counter Reformation.  
ANSWER: Council of  Trent 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 10 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: Found primarily in blood and lymph, they include basophils and eosinophils. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these disease:fighting cells that come in granulocytic and agranulocytic classes.  
ANSWER:  leukocyte 
 [or  white blood cell ]  
[10] These leukocytes contain either CDD or CDL glycoproteins, which bind to MHC Class I or MHC Class  
II molecules, and are classified as either helper or cytotoxic.  
ANSWER:  T 
 cells [accept  T lymphocyte s]  
[10] Helper T cells are targeted by this retrovirus.  Infection by this virus leads to a weakened immune  
system and vulnerability to opportunistic infection.  
ANSWER:  HIV 
 [or  human immunodeficiency virus J do not accept “AIDS”]   
19. A phasor plot represents this function in a complex plane, and this function also appears in the  
Fourier and Laplace transforms.  It is equal to the sum of the hyperbolic sine and hyperbolic cosine.   
Euler’s formula states that this function of   theta equals cis theta.  This function, the only nonzero one  i 
to equal its own derivative, is often used in problems involving radioactive decay and compound  
interest.   For 10 points, name this inverse of the natural logarithm, which involves a base   being raised  e 
to a power.  
ANSWER: natural  exponential 
 function [accept  exponentiation ]  
Bonus: In one of this man’s plays, Pentheus is killed by the title characters, a group of madwomen led by  
his mother.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this ancient Greek playwright of  Bacchae  and  Medea .  
ANSWER:  Euripedes 
 [10] This Euripedes play follows title characters such as Hecuba, Cassandra, and Andromache, as they  
reflect on how their lives have changed after their city was destroyed by the Greeks.  
ANSWER:  Trojan Women 
 [or  Troades J or   Women of Troy ]  
[10] This Euripedes play places the title woman in Egypt, where she is assured by Theonoe that her  
husband is aliveJ that husband later appears, shipwrecked on his way back from Troy.  
ANSWER:  Helen 
70. One character in this novel dreams that mice are crawling all over him, and another is read the  
biblical story of Lazarus. That character receives a cross near the end of this work, and debates  
Lebezyatnikov. In this novel, the dastardly Pyotr Luzhin becomes engaged to the protagonistEs sister. The  
central character is questioned by Porfiry Petrovich, and is befriended by Razumikhin, as well as the  
former prostitute Sonya. For 10 points, name this novel beginning with a murder committed by  
Raskolnikov, written by Fyodor Dostoevsky.  
ANSWER:  Crime and Punishment 
 [or  Prestupleniye i Nakazaniye ] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 11 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: He was declared to be an outlaw by the Congress of Vienna. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this man, who escaped from exile on the island of Elba, and retook control of the French  
Army following his 1L1F return to Paris.  
ANSWER:  Napoleon 
  Bonaparte  [accept either name]  
[10] Napoleon’s army marched into Belgium, where he was met and subsequently defeated by allied  
forces under the command of this man.  He would later serve twice as Prime Minister of Great Britain.  
ANSWER: Arthur  Wellesley 
, Duke of  Wellington  [accept either underlined part]  
[10] This name was given to time period during which Napoleon returned to power after escaping from  
exile. It ended with the restoration of Ming Louis XVII to the throne of France.  
ANSWER:  Hundred Days 
71. This artist depicted four girls in a drawing room along with a Japanese vase in  The Daughters of  
Edward Darley Boit . Two men in dark coats look at their instruments towards the left and two brightly  
clothed women wave their hands in the background as a plainly dressed woman dances in the  
foreground in  El Jaleo . In another painting, he depicted a woman facing right, her hand on a curved red  
table, her pale skin contrasting with the dark background and black dress. For 10 points, name this  
painter who depicted Virginie Gautreau in  Madame X .  
ANSWER: John Singer  Sargent 
Bonus: He works for Potiphar and interprets the Pharaoh’s dream about the coming of a famine. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this Old Testament figure, whose brothers sell him into slavery after he receives a colorful  
coat.  
ANSWER:  Joseph 
[10] Joseph is the son of Rachel and this man, who also fathers Reuben, Simeon, and four others with  
Rachel’s sister Leah.  
ANSWER:  Jacob 
[10] This is the youngest son of Jacob, and his only other son with Rachel.  
ANSWER:  Benjamin    
77. A weak form of this interaction can arise between a soft acid and soft base consisting of pi electrons.  
The low barrier form of this interaction occurs in enzymatic transition states where the donor and  
acceptor are closer than usual. Its presence in secondary protein structure allows for the formation of  
alpha helices and beta sheets. This type of interaction also links adjacent nuclear bases in DNA. For 10  
points, name these bonds that form between electronegative elements with lone pair electrons and the  
namesake element, which occurs in liquids like ammonia and water.   
ANSWER:  hydrogen bond 
Bonus: He designed Boston’s Christian Science Center and the east wing of the National Gallery. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this Chinese:American architect of the JFM Presidential Library.  
ANSWER: Ieoh Ming  Pei 
[10] Pei designed a glass pyramid that sits outside this French museum.  
ANSWER: the  Louvre 
[10] Pei also created the building for this Cleveland museum, whose features include a glass pyramid  
sticking out of a square tower.  
ANSWER:  Rock and Roll Hall of Fame 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 12 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 3  
Tiebreakers + Extras 
1. In the second act of this opera, a mezzo:soprano sings CVieni: sul crin ti piovanoC to try to forget her  
jealousyJ earlier, she and two other members of a love triangle sing the trio CVeni, o diletta appressati.C  
This opera’s title character sings the arias CRitorna vincitorC and CO patria mia,C and it includes a  
“Triumphal March” celebrating a military victory. Though Amonasro escapes to his native land in the  
third act, the princess Amneris condemns her fiancé, an Egyptian officer, to capture and death. For 10  
points, Radames is buried alive with an Ethiopian princess in what opera by VerdiN  
ANSWER:  Aida 
7. These structures are lined by the tunica intima, tunica media, and tunica adventitia.  The tunica media  
contains a circular layer of smooth muscle cells that contract and relax in vasoconstriction and  
vasodilation, respectively.  One subset of these structures is inflamed in phlebitis and contains valves  
that fail to function in their “varicose” variety, while a second subset includes the aorta.  For 10 points,  
name these structures through which blood flows, which include capillaries, arteries, and veins.  
ANSWER:  blood vessel 
s [prompt on  vein sJ prompt on  arteries ]  
@. As a senator, this man backed Hattie Carraway and led a filibuster against the Glass Steagall Act. He  
built one third of a road after his state legislature gave him one third of the money he asked for. He  
simultaneously held the positions of senator and governor, and used the motto “Every Man a Ming” as  
part of his Share Our Wealth program, before he was shot by Dr. Carl Weiss in 19@D. For 10 points, name  
this man, nicknamed the “Mingfish,” who ruled over Louisiana politics during the 19@0s.  
ANSWER: Huey Pierce  Long 
Extra 70:point bonus:   
This man wrote of being wakened to the thought of Judgment Day by “gunnery practice out at sea” in  
“Channel Firing.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this British author who also wrote novels like  Jude the  Obscure and  The Return of the Native .  
ANSWER: Thomas  Hardy 
[10] In this Hardy novel, Gabriel Oak works as a shepherd while hiding his love for Bathsheba Everdene,  
but they end up happily married in the end.  
ANSWER:  Far From the Madding Crowd 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 3   Page 13 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Extra @0:point bonus:   
They depict bonds as lines between atoms. For 10 points each:   
[10] Identify these molecule schematics that also show lone pairs of electrons.   
ANSWER:  Lewis 
 dot structures [or  Lewis  diagrams]   
[10] Multiple Lewis dot structures can be drawn for molecules exhibiting this phenomenon, in which  
electrons are delocalized over bonds.   
ANSWER:  resonance 
[10] This quantity is calculated by subtracting the number of bonds and unshared electrons from valence  
electrons on an atom.   
ANSWER:  formal charge 
