Tournament 33 
Round 8 
Tossups 
1.  
During the thirteenth century, this country's Alexander III removed Norse influence by defeating 
Haakon IV and signing the Treaty of Perth. This country formed the Auld Alliance with France. 
Edward Balliol briefly ruled this country, although the Treaty of Northampton had earlier 
recognized this country's independence. A defining moment for this country was its victory against 
(*) 
 Edward II at the Battle of Bannockburn. For 10 points, name this country whose independence was 
fought for by Robert the Bruce and William Wallace. 
ANSWER:  
Scotland 
140-13-75-08101 
2.  
A ring in which this operation is defined for all nonzero elements is a field. Taking the limit of an 
expression containing two functions connected by this operation can be done with L'Hopital's rule. 
One variant of this operation that can be done with a monic linear polynomial is its (*) 
 synthetic 
variety. Like subtraction, this operation is not commutative over the real numbers. The result of this 
operation is the quotient. For 10 points, name this inverse operation of multiplication. 
ANSWER:  
division 
131-13-75-08102 
3.  
This thinker argued that a man may make acorns his own property by expending labor in 
collecting them. In another work, he claimed there are \"no innate principles\" in children but that 
people develop ideas through sensing \"secondary qualities.\" The (*) 
 Declaration of Independence was 
influenced by this man's notion that government exists to protect \"life, liberty, and estate.\" For 10 points, 
name this philosopher who wrote  
Two Treatises of Government. 
ANSWER: John  
Locke 
121-13-75-08103 
4.  
This film opens with a close-up of a worm, followed by a zoom-out showing the worm being placed 
on a hook. One character in this film sings \"Mist and shadow, cloud and shade, all shall fade\" in a 
scene that cuts from a volley of arrows to a mouth dripping with red juice. This movie won eleven (*) 
Academy Awards, which Billy Crystal joked was \"one for each ending.\" Its climactic moments include 
Eowyn's slaying of the Witch-King and Gollum's fall into Mount Doom. For 10 points, name this final 
movie in Peter Jackson's  
Lord of the Rings 
 trilogy. 
ANSWER:  
The Lord of the Rings: The  Return of the King 
080-13-75-08104 
5.  
In one short story by this author, a wizard creates a fireproof boy only to discover that he was 
made by someone else's dream. This author wrote another story in which Carlos Daneri's home 
contains the title point in space that contains all other points. In another story by this author of \"The 
(*) 
 Circular Ruins\" and \"The Aleph,\" the spy Yu Tsun discovers that the title book was written by his 
ancestor Ts'ui Pen before he murders Stephen Albert. For 10 points, name this blind Argentinian author of 
\"The Garden of Forking Paths.\" 
ANSWER: Jorge Luis  
Borges 
186-13-75-08105 
Tournament 33     8     Page  1 of 11 
6.  
This man's last purely instrument work was a clarinet concerto intended for Anton Stadler. This 
composer's four horn concertos are some of many works in which he revealed his bizarre fondness 
for scatological jokes. Ludwig Köchel catalogued this man's music, creating the “K number” still 
used for naming his works. Franz (*) 
 Süssmayr finished the piece he was working on before his death, 
this man's requiem. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of  
Eine kleine Nachtmusik 
 (EYE-nuh 
KLIE-nuh NOCT-moo-zeek). 
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
121-13-75-08106 
7.  
In one poem by this author, the speaker recalls a wise man who told him, “Give crowns and 
pounds and guineas but not your heart away.” This author wrote a poem where the title figure is said 
to “eat your victuals fast enough.” In another poem, this author of \"When I Was (*) 
One-and-Twenty\" reminds the title figure of when people “chaired you through the market-place” after 
“you won your town the race.” For 10 points, name this British poet of the collection  
A Shropshire Lad, 
including \"Terence, This Is Stupid Stuff\" and \"To an Athlete Dying Young.\" 
ANSWER: A. E.  
Housman 
 [or Alfred Edward  
Housman 
] 
140-13-75-08107 
8.  
In meteorology, a modification to this equation is known as the Magnus-Tetens approximation. 
Another modification of this equation features the term B over T+C and is called the Antoine 
equation. It can be derived by assuming the difference in Gibbs free energy between two points are 
the same, and can be written with the right hand side as latent heat over temperature times (*) 
volume change. This equation gives the slopes of the tangents to the coexistence curve. For 10 points, name 
this equation that characterizes pressure and temperature along phase boundaries. 
ANSWER:  
Clausius-Clapeyron 
 relation 
201-13-75-08108 
9.  
In the background of this painting, a steamship is blowing smoke while four men in white are 
rowing. A girl holds her mother’s pink skirt in its middle, to the right of a man playing a trumpet. 
The artist of this paining depicted the same setting from a different vantage point in his other work,  
Bathers at Asnieres . This painting's foreground features a (*) 
 dog sniffing the ground, a man leaning 
back with a pipe in his mouth, and a woman with a parasol over her shoulder holding a monkey on a leash. 
For 10 points, name this pointillist painting, a masterpiece by George Seurat. 
ANSWER:  
A  Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte 
 [or  
Un  dimanche apres-midi a l'Ile de 
la Grande Jatte 
; or  
La Grande Jatte 
] 
192-13-75-08109 
10.  
The first American company in this industry was named for Seneca and set up after Edwin Drake 
started production in Titusville. This business made a millionaire of Los Angeles's Edward Doheny, 
whose bribes were investigated by Thomas Walsh. An expose of this industry in  McClure's Magazine 
was penned by Ida Tarbell. The federal leasing of Elk Hills to this industry caused the (*) 
 Teapot 
Dome scandal. For 10 points, name this business whose monopoly by John D. Rockefeller ran delivery 
lines from crude refineries. 
ANSWER:  
oil 
 industry [or  
petroleum 
 industry; prompt on  
gas 
oline] 
104-13-75-08110 
Tournament 33     8     Page  2 of 11 
11.  
In this country, a form of shadow puppet theater called  wayang  is accompanied by the heptatonic  
pelog  scale as mallets hit a row of tuned metal gongs. One anthropologist described a crowd here as a 
“superorganism” and compared Morocco’s religious practice to this country in  Islam Observed . 
Ethnomusicologists love this country’s (*) 
gamelan 
 ensemble. In the essay  
Deep Play 
, Clifford Geertz 
describes a cockfight he saw here. For 10 points, name this country with different ethnic communities in 
Bali and Java. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Indonesia 
 [or Republik  
Indonesia 
] 
104-13-75-08111 
12.  
Persecution against these people was intensified after a series of bills were posted at various 
places including on the king's bedchamber door in the Affair of the Placards. In supposed revenge 
for the death of Francis, duke of Guise, one of these people was targeted for assassination. That effort 
failing triggered a general massacre against these people called the (*) 
 St. Bartholomew's Day 
massacre. For 10 points, name these French Protestants who enjoyed toleration for a while under the Edict 
of Nantes. 
ANSWER:  
Huguenot 
s [prompt on  
French Protestant 
s before read] 
201-13-75-08112 
13.  
The impedance of these components is directly proportional to angular frequency. The energy 
stored in these components is proportional to the current squared. Their characteristic measure is 
multiplied by the time derivative of current to yield the voltage. That measure can be increased by 
inserting a (*) 
 metal bar in the middle of these components. They are often found in circuits with resistors 
and capacitors. For 10 points, identify these circuit components that store energy in a magnetic field. 
ANSWER:  
inductor 
066-13-75-08113 
14.  
The Ashtavinayaka (ASH-tah-vee-nie-AH-kuh) pilgrimage involves visiting eight temples 
dedicated to this deity. He defeated Skanda in a race despite not moving, and he served as Vyasa’s 
scribe as he dictated the  Mahabharata.  Commonly depicted riding a mouse, this god was frequently 
called the (*) 
 “remover of obstacles.” This god gained his famous form after his father, Shiva, decapitated 
him. For 10 points, name this son of Parvati who was commonly depicted with an elephant’s head. 
ANSWER:  
Ganesh 
a 
192-13-75-08114 
15.  
In this region, the confluence of the Sengge and Gar rivers gives rise to the Indus river. This 
region includes the lakes Siling and Nam. This region is often called the \"roof of the world\" due to its 
location on the highest and largest plateau in the world. (*) 
 Potala Palace is found in this region's 
capital of Lhasa. For 10 points, name this place whose namesake form of Buddhism is led by the Dalai 
Lama, a formerly independent monk-state that is now ruled by China. 
ANSWER:  
Tibet 
066-13-75-08115 
16.  
This author created a character who serves six years of hard labor after getting caught writing 
the words, \"Optimism is the opium of the people.\" The protagonists of another novel by this man 
own a dog named Karenin that dies of cancer. In that novel, Professor Franz falls in love with (*) 
Sabina, who travels to America after ending her affair with Tomas. For 10 points, name this author who 
wrote about the Czech experience in  
The Joke 
 and  
The Unbearable Lightness of Being. 
ANSWER: Milan  
Kundera 
186-13-75-08116 
Tournament 33     8     Page  3 of 11 
17.  
One palace in this country features a Gallery of Battles and a circular room where niches in the 
walls hold stacks of four ornate coffins for interred monarchs. A marble fountain in this country is 
circle by twelve outward-facing feline sculptures spewing water in the Court of the Lions. Eighteen 
spires rise from an (*) 
 incomplete cathedral in this country whose architect died in 1926. This country is 
home to a complex whose name means “Red Fort” in Arabic. For 10 points, name this home of the 
Escorial, Antonio Gaudi’s Sagrada Familia, and the Muslim-built Alhambra in Granada. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Spain 
 [or Reino de  
España 
] 
104-13-75-08117 
18.  
This character loses a tooth which he trades to his friend for a tick. With Ben Rogers, Tommy 
Barnes, and Joe Harper, he starts a gang of robbers with a blood oath initiation ritual. While 
attempting a wart removal ritual with a dead cat, he witnesses the murder of (*) 
 Muff Potter in a 
graveyard. Later, he wanders off after a picnic and gets lost in McDougal’s Cave with Becky Thatcher. In 
one episode, this antagonist of Injun Joe tricks his friends into painting a fence for him. For 10 points, name 
this friend of Huck Finn in the novels of Mark Twain. 
ANSWER: Tom  
Sawyer 
 [or  
Tom 
 Sawyer] 
015-13-75-08118 
19.  
A large fold of the peritoneum called the greater omentum hangs down from this organ. In this 
organ’s upper region, called the fundus, chief cells secrete pepsinogen (pep-SIN-oh-jen) and parietal 
cells secrete intrinsic factor and (*) 
 hydrochloric acid. The pyloric sphincter at the bottom of this organ 
passes a substance called chyme into the duodenum (doo-AH-den-um) of the small intestine. For 10 points, 
name this digestive organ, into which food is passed by the esophagus. 
ANSWER:  
stomach 
014-13-75-08119 
20.  
This man was wounded while fighting with Archie Clement, which followed a time when he took 
part in the Centralia massacre under Bloody Bill Anderson. This man took on the pseudonym 
Thomas Howard while trying to avoid the bounty put on his head by Thomas Crittenden. This man, 
who was killed by Robert Ford, barely escaped from Northfield, Minnesota, after one action, and he 
was part of a group with (*) 
 Cole Younger and his brother Frank. For 10 points, name this 
Reconstruction-era bank-robbing outlaw from Missouri. 
ANSWER: Jesse Woodson  
James 
023-13-75-08120 
21.  
One type of these creatures is induced by chrionic gonadotropin from pregnant humans to lay 
millimeter-wide eggs; that model organism in development labs,  Xenopus laevis , has clawed feet. 
High thyroxine concentrations in the back of these animals cause their jaws to deform and their tails 
to (*) 
 disappear. These animals of order Anura include a family which warns of its batrachotoxin emissions 
with bright colored skin, the “poison dart” type. For 10 points, name these reptiles whose amphibious stage 
is the tadpole. 
ANSWER:  
frog 
s [or  
toad 
s or  
tadpoles 
; prompt on  
amphibians 
] 
104-13-75-08121 
Tournament 33     8     Page  4 of 11 
22.  
In one poem by this author, the speaker laments a dearth of colorful nightgowns and describes an 
“old sailor” who “catches tigers in red weather.” Another of his poems concludes by describing 
pigeons flying “downward to darkness, on extended wings.” This poet of “Disillusionment of (*) 
 Ten 
O’Clock” created a character who wishes for “concupiscent curds” of the title substance to be whipped by 
“the roller of big cigars.” For 10 points, name this American poet of the collection  
Harmonium, 
 including 
“Sunday Morning” and “The Emperor of Ice-Cream.” 
ANSWER: Wallace  
Stevens 
014-13-75-08122 
23.  
This ruler ended one conflict with France through the Peace of Crepy. After this ruler's forces 
won the Battle of Villalar over the rebellious comuneros, this monarch had his mother, Joanna the 
Mad, confined inside the Convent of Santa Clara. This ruler convoked and presided over the Diet of 
Worms. In 1556, this man entered a monastery, allowing his brother Ferdinand I to succeed him in 
one position while his son (*) 
 Philip II took over Spain. For 10 points, name this influential Holy Roman 
Emperor. 
ANSWER:  
Charles V 
 of the Holy Roman Empire [or  
Charles I 
 of Spain; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
014-13-75-08123 
Tournament 33     8     Page  5 of 11 
Tournament 33 
Round 8 
Bonuses 
1. In one work by this man, Olunde commits suicide in a ritual his father, Elesin, failed to follow because 
of the intervention of Simon Pilkings. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Nobel Prize-winning playwright of  
Death and the King's Horseman 
. 
ANSWER: Wole  
Soyinka 
 [or Akinwande Oluwole  
Soyinka 
] 
[10] Wole Soyinka is a writer from this West African country, which is also the home of Chimamanda 
Ngozi Adichie. 
ANSWER: Federal Republic of  
Nigeria 
[10] This Soyinka play recounts the contest for the hand of Sidi between Baroka and the schoolteacher 
Lakunle. 
ANSWER:  
The  Lion and the Jewel 
023-13-75-08201  
2. Solar wind creates the most distinctive features of these objects. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify these icy objects that can display a tail. 
ANSWER:  
comet 
s 
[10] Long-period comets are thought to originate in the Oort cloud while short-period ones are thought to 
originate from this region of the Solar System. 
ANSWER:  
Kuiper belt 
[10] These \"refugees\" from the Kuiper belt are found between Jupiter and Neptune. They have unstable 
orbits and their largest example is Chiron. 
ANSWER:  
centaur 
s 
066-13-75-08202  
3. Gabrielle Giffords created the PAC Americans for Responsible Solutions to oppose this lobbying group. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this organization whose executive vice-president, Wayne LaPierre, asserted that armed guards 
could have prevented the Sandy Hook shooting. This organization lobbies for the rights of gun owners. 
ANSWER: the  
NRA 
 [or the  
National Rifle Association 
] 
[10] In a passage of disputed meaning, the Second Amendment states that the right to bear arms \"shall not 
be infringed\" on the grounds that one of these things is \"necessary to the security of a free state.\" 
ANSWER: a well-regulated  
militia 
[10] In this 2010 case, the Supreme Court ruled that the right to bear arms was incorporated under the 14th 
amendment. It clarified the decision made in  
D.C. v. Heller 
. 
ANSWER:  
McDonald  v. Chicago 
080-13-75-08203  
Tournament 33     8     Page  6 of 11 
4. This man defeated his father-in-law Maximian after Maximian betrayed him. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Roman emperor whose religious conversion helped lead to his issuing the Edict of Milan, 
allowing religious toleration for Christians. 
ANSWER:  
Constantine the Great 
 [or  
Constantine I 
; or  
Flavius Valerius Constantinus 
; prompt on  
Constantine 
] 
[10] Constantine defeated Maxentius at this 312 CE battle, before which Constantine adopted the Chi Rho 
as a symbol for his army. 
ANSWER: Battle of the  
Milvian Bridge 
[10] This Roman emperor co-authored the Edict of Milan with Constantine, but was later executed after he 
lost to Constantine at the Battle of Adrianople. 
ANSWER: Valerius Licinianus  
Licinius 
023-13-75-08204  
5. This composer used quotations from Donne’s “The Sun Rising” and Shelley’s  
Prometheus Unbound 
 as 
some of the epigraphs for his five-movement  
Sinfonia antartica. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this British composer of  
Fantasia on “Greensleeves” 
 and  
Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas 
Tallis. 
ANSWER: Ralph  
Vaughan Williams 
[10] This composition, the first and longest of Vaughan Williams’s symphonies, sets text from  
Leaves of 
Grass 
 in such movements as “On the Beach at Night, Alone” and “The Explorers.” 
ANSWER:  
A  Sea Symphony 
[10] Vaughan Williams’s  
Sancta Civitas 
 is an example of the oratorio, a genre worked in extensively by 
this earlier German-born British composer of  
Messiah. 
ANSWER: George Frideric  
Handel 
014-13-75-08205  
6. This man was originally named Saul, and converted on the Road to Damascus. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this missionary who helped spread Christianity through much of the Mediterranean. His epistles 
form a sizable portion of the New Testament. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Paul 
 the Apostle 
[10] This longest epistle by Paul comes directly after Acts in the Bible. It famously states that \"the wages of 
sin is death\" and examines sinners' salvation through Christ. 
ANSWER: Epistle to the  
Romans 
[10] This other epistle advocates against marrying non-Christians by saying \"be ye not unequally yoked 
with unbelievers.\" It comes after a similarly-named epistle which states, \"Love is patient, love is kind.\" 
ANSWER:  
Second Corinthians 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"Corinthians\" or \"First Corinthians,\" but do 
accept equivalents such as  
Corinthians 2 
] 
192-13-75-08206  
Tournament 33     8     Page  7 of 11 
7. This poem includes the warning, “Beware! Beware! His flashing eyes, his floating hair!” For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this poem in which the title ruler decrees a “stately pleasure dome” in Xanadu. 
ANSWER: “ 
Kubla Kahn 
” 
[10] “Kubla Kahn” was written by this opium-addled poet. He teamed up with Wordsworth on  
Lyrical 
Ballads. 
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor  
Colerdige 
[10] Coleridge was given a 150-pound annuity by this family so he could focus on his poetry. Its patriarch 
Josiah started a namesake pottery company and was a prominent abolitionist. 
ANSWER:  
Wedgwood 
015-13-75-08207  
8. Answer these questions about the United States's failure to ratify the Treaty of Versailles, for 10 points 
each. 
[10] This Democratic President's \"Fourteen Points\" influenced the Treaty of Versailles, which he helped 
draft. He led America into World War I. 
ANSWER: Thomas Woodrow  
Wilson 
[10] Henry Cabot Lodge, a Republican Senator from this state, led the opposition to Wilson. A concurrent 
police strike in this state challenged its then-governor, Calvin Coolidge. 
ANSWER:  
Massachusetts 
[10] Wilson suffered this health problem in October 1919, which his wife and doctor Cary Grayson hid 
from the country while the ratification process soured. 
ANSWER:  
stroke 
 [or cerebral  
hemorrhage 
; or retinal  
hemorrhage 
] 
104-13-75-08208  
9. A yellow one, lead iodide, is formed when lead nitrate solution is mixed with sodium iodide. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name these solid compounds which drop out of solution in double-replacement reactions. 
ANSWER:  
precipitates 
[10] In the reaction, the sodium and nitrate ions are classified as this type of species. These ions do not 
participate in double replacement reactions. 
ANSWER:  
spectator 
 ions 
[10] To determine if a precipitate will form, the mass action expression is used to calculate whether this 
equilibrium constant, modeling the dissolution of an ionic solid, is greater than the reaction quotient. 
ANSWER:  
solubility product 
 constant [or  
Ksp 
] 
190-13-75-08209  
10. This novel is dedicated to “sixty million and more” in a nod to the number of people who died in the 
trans-Atlantic slave trade. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Sethe kills her own daughter to prevent her from experiencing a life of 
slavery. 
ANSWER:  
Beloved 
[10]  
Beloved 
 was written by this African American Nobel laureate who has also written  
The Bluest Eye 
 and 
Sula. 
ANSWER: Toni  
Morrison 
 [or Chloe Anthony  
Wofford 
] 
[10] In this Biblically named Morrison novel, Milkman Dead III grows apart from his friend Guitar Bains 
and visits Shalimar, Virginia. 
ANSWER:  
Song of Solomon 
015-13-75-08210  
Tournament 33     8     Page  8 of 11 
11. Several characters in this novel pass around Kemmerich’s boots after his death. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Corporal Himmelstoss is assaulted by Paul Baumer, a demoralized soldier 
on the German front lines in World War I. 
ANSWER:  
All Quiet on the Western Front 
 [or  
Im Westen Nichts Neues 
] 
[10] This author of  
All Quiet on the Western Front 
 had his books burnt publicly by the Nazis for their 
unpatriotic and anti-war messages. 
ANSWER: Erich Maria  
Remarque 
[10] In  
All Quiet on the Western Front 
, this teacher’s patriotism inspires Paul and his friends to sign up for 
the war, though he himself does not fight until being drafted. 
ANSWER:  
Kantorek 
104-13-75-08211  
12. This military leader's campaigns in Ireland included a massacre at Drogheda. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Lord Protector of England who commanded the New Model Army while serving the 
Roundheads in the English Civil War. 
ANSWER: Oliver  
Cromwell 
[10] This English king was executed after the English Civil War. He appointed William Laud as 
Archbishop of Canterbury. 
ANSWER:  
Charles I 
 [prompt on  
Charles 
] 
[10] After the dissolution of the Rump Parliament, this parliament came to power, lasting only six months. 
It was composed entirely of Cromwell's handpicked representatives. 
ANSWER:  
Barebone's 
 Parliament [or  
Little 
 Parliament; or  
Nominated Assembly 
; or Parliament of  
Saints 
] 
192-13-75-08212  
13. A scene in Dr. Bartolo's home in this opera begins with the aria “Una Voce (VOE-che) Poco Fa.” For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this opera in which the title character sings the aria “Largo al Factotum.” It ends with a 
marriage contract signed between Count Almaviva and Rosina. 
ANSWER:  
The Barber of Seville 
 [or  
Il Barbiere di Siviglia 
] 
[10]  
The Barber of Seville 
 was composed by this Italian whose  
La Cenerentola 
 (CHE-neh-REN-toh-lah) 
includes the stepsisters Clorinda and Tisbe. 
ANSWER: Gioachino  
Rossini 
[10] This Rossini opera is based on a play by Friedrich Schiller. In it, the title character shoots an apple 
above Jemmy's head. 
ANSWER:  
William Tell 
 [or  
Guillaume Tell 
; or  
Guglieimo Tell 
] 
030-13-75-08213  
14. This god impregnated Danae by turning into a shower of gold. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this husband of Hera and chief of the Olympians. 
ANSWER:  
Zeus 
[10] This mother of Zeus tricked his father Cronus into swallowing a rock instead of the infant Zeus. 
ANSWER:  
Rhea 
[10] This Titaness came up with the plan to get the other children out of Cronus' stomach. After sleeping 
with her, Zeus realized their child could overthrow him and swallowed her in the form of a fly. 
ANSWER:  
Metis 
186-13-75-08214  
Tournament 33     8     Page  9 of 11 
15. For 10 points each, answer these questions about a block travelling down a ramp. 
[10] This contact force counteracts the component of gravitational acceleration perpendicular to the ramp. 
ANSWER:  
normal 
 force 
[10] The normal force on the block equals this function of the angle of the ramp, times the object's mass, 
times gravitational acceleration. 
ANSWER:  
cosine 
 of the angle [or  
cos 
] 
[10] Suppose the block was replaced with a solid ball that rolled down the ramp. The ball’s linear 
acceleration of g times the sine of the angle would then be divided by quantity 1 plus what constant in the 
formula for a sphere’s moment of inertia? 
ANSWER:  
two-fifths 
 [or  ] 
.4 
104-13-75-08215  
16. This sculptor depicted six leaders of the title city preparing to be executed by Edward III in  
The 
Burghers of Calais. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French sculptor of  
The Gates of Hell 
 as well as a famous depiction of Paolo and Francesca 
called  
The Kiss. 
ANSWER: Auguste  
Rodin 
[10] Rodin may be most famous for this bronze sculpture, probably of Dante, who sits on a rock and rests 
his chin on the back of his right hand. 
ANSWER:  
The  Thinker 
 [or  
Le  Penseur 
] 
[10] Rodin sculpted a controversial monument to this novelist, whom he portrayed wrapped in a long 
flowing cloak and a grotesque and undetailed face. 
ANSWER: Honore de  
Balzac 
014-13-75-08216  
17. This ethnic group conquered the Khwarezmian Empire, but was defeated at Ain Jalut. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Identify this group that was united in the thirteenth century by Genghis Khan. 
ANSWER:  
Mongol 
s 
[10] Under Kublai Khan, the Yuan Dynasty defeated this Chinese dynasty, which developed the first 
compass and used gunpowder. It followed the Tang dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Song 
 Dynasty 
[10] This portion of the Mongol empire was ruled from Sarai by Batu Khan, who was its founder. It was 
named for the characteristic of a certain tent. 
ANSWER:  
Golden Horde 
 [or the  
Kipchak Khanate 
; or  
Ulus Juchi 
] 
189-13-75-08217  
18. This man is assisted by Renfield, who is labeled a zoophagous maniac by John Seward. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this title character who is first met by Jonathan Harker in the Carpathian Mountains before he 
heads to England. 
ANSWER: Count  
Dracula 
[10]  
Dracula 
 was written by this Irish author. 
ANSWER: Bram  
Stoker 
 [or Abraham  
Stoker 
] 
[10] This man is called in by John Seward when Lucy Westenra takes ill, and he is the first to organize a 
fight against Dracula. 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Van Helsing 
 [or  
Abraham 
 Van Helsing] 
023-13-75-08218  
Tournament 33     8     Page  10 of 11 
19. These plants rely on pollination in order to reproduce. For 10 points each: 
[10] Names this group of plants, which grow flowers and produce fruit after fertilization. 
ANSWER:  
angiosperm 
s [prompt on “flowering plants”] 
[10] This type of angiosperm is characterized by parallel leaf veins and randomly arranged stem vascular 
bundles. These plants cannot produce wood. 
ANSWER:  
monocot 
s 
[10] After fertilization, the embryo in a seed is surrounded by this layer that is enclosed by the seed coat. 
This layer provides the embryo with nutrients. 
ANSWER:  
endosperm 
140-13-75-08219  
20. This river rises in the Krkonose (KUR-ko-nose) Mountains in the Czech Republic. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this river that travels west and north through Germany into the North Sea. 
ANSWER:  
Elbe 
 River [or  
Labe 
] 
[10] This \"Florence of the Elbe\" sits near the German border with the Czech Republic, and had to rebuild 
much of its inner city after it was firebombed in World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Dresden 
[10] This port city on the Elbe is one of three German city-states, along with Bremen and Berlin. 
ANSWER:  
Hamburg 
023-13-75-08220  
21. Leonhard Euler showed that \"e\" raised to the power of this number times pi equals negative 1. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this number defined as the square root of negative 1. 
ANSWER:   [or  
i imaginary unit 
] 
[10] Complex numbers whose real parts are equal and whose imaginary parts differ only by a sign change 
have this relationship. 
ANSWER: they are complex  
conjugate 
s 
[10] If a complex number is expressed in polar form as \"r times e to the power of x,\" what variable must 
change sign to obtain the conjugate? 
ANSWER:   [or the  
x exponent 
 of e; or the  
power 
 of e; or obvious equivalents] 
121-13-75-08221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
Tournament 33     8     Page  11 of 11 
