2013 NHB Set C 
Bee Round 1 
BEE ROUND 1 
1. The comte d'Estaing led five hundred Haitian volunteers to assist Benjamin Lincoln in this colony in a 
battle where Casimir Pulaski was killed. Slavery was allowed here in 1749, though its founder, who tried 
unsuccessfully to start a silk industry here, originally wanted this colony to be a \"debtors' haven.\" This was 
the last of the thirteen colonies founded. For the point, name this colony founded by James Oglethorpe, 
whose capital was Savannah. 
ANSWER:  
Georgia 
121-13-87-11101 
2. This artist impressed the Count-Duke of Olivares with his initial sketch of a leader whom he ultimately 
painted in \"brown in silver.\" He executed portraits of Pablo de Valladolid and the  
morisco 
 Juan de Pareja. 
He showed Justin of Nassau handing a key to Ambrogio Spinola in  
The Surrender of Breda. 
 In another of 
his paintings, the Infanta Margarita appears in front of a mirror showing Queen Mariana and King Philip 
IV. For the point, name this Spanish painter of  
Las Meninas. 
ANSWER: Diego  
Velázquez 
189-13-87-11102 
3. This country was the site of the November and January Uprisings against its status as a Congress 
Kingdom ruled by its eastern neighbor. This country was led by a politician-musician who composed the 
opera  
Manru. 
 In the late eighteenth century, it was wiped off the map via three partitions by neighbors such 
as Prussia and Austria, and was only reformed after World War I. For the point, name this country that was 
led between the wars by Josef Pilsudski. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Poland 
 [or  
Poland 
-Lithuanian Commonwealth; or Congress  
Poland 
] 
153-13-87-11103 
4. This substance is the product of the Girdler sulfide process and was made at Savannah River. The 
SOE-planned Operation Gunnerside destroyed a Norwegian production site of this substance in World War 
II to prevent its use by the Nazi nuclear weapons program. This substance has the best neutron economy of 
all substances used as nuclear moderators in reactors, and is safer than graphite. For the point, name this 
substance composed of deuterium atoms, which is denser than normal water. 
ANSWER:  
heavy water 
 [or  
deuterium oxide 
; do not accept or prompt on \"water\"] 
153-13-87-11104 
5. Keir Hardie was the first MP for a party with this name in the U.K. A party with this name replaced 
Prime Minister Julia Gillard with Kevin Rudd before losing the 2013 Australian federal election to the rival 
Liberals led by Tony Abbott. Ed Milliband leads a party with this name that first formed government under 
Ramsay Macdonald. For the point, give this name with socialist roots that is shared by the center-left 
parties of Australia and the United Kingdom. 
ANSWER:  
Labour 
 Party [or Australian  
Labor 
 Party] 
153-13-87-11105 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 1     Page  1 of 6 
6. The first king with this name fought campaigns against Llywelyn (loo-ELL-en) the Last in Wales. The 
second king with this name was married to Isabella of France, who had an affair with Roger Mortimer. 
Hugh Despenser and Piers Gaveston were favorites of the second king with this name, which was first held 
by a man who was king during the loss to William Wallace at Stirling Bridge. For the point, give this name 
shared by several kings of England, including one nicknamed \"Longshanks.\" 
ANSWER:  
Edward 
192-13-87-11106 
7. A proxy conflict of this war was Spain’s War of the Two Peters. This war's first major naval battle was 
at Sluys. During this war, the leader of the Loire (luh-WAH) campaign was captured by the Burgundians, 
and Charles VII refused to pay ransom for the person who had relieved the Siege of Orleans. Edward the 
Black Prince fought at Crecy during this war. For the point, name this war in which exhausted knights were 
defeated by English longbows at Agincourt. 
ANSWER:  
Hundred Years’ 
 War 
232-13-87-11107 
8. This ruler accused Archbishop Pimen of treason for attempting to defect to Lithuania, leading him to 
sack the city of Novgorod. This ruler employed a Cossack named Yermak to conquer Siberia, and also 
created the oprichniki (ahp-RICH-nick-ee) secret police. After killing his son Ivan, he was succeeded by 
the mentally disabled Feodor, eventually allowing Boris Godunov to gain power in the Time of Troubles. 
For the point, name this tsar known for his cruelty. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan IV 
 [or  
Ivan the Terrible 
; or  
Ivan Grozny 
; prompt on  
Ivan 
] 
232-13-87-11108 
9. This man was forced to return to England following a lawsuit filed by Sophia Hopkey. He promoted 
prison ministries in his work with Oxford's Holy Club. Francis Asbury promoted this man’s denomination 
in the United States through the use of circuit riders. This man's brother Charles composed hymns such as 
\"Christ the Lord is Risen Today\" and \"Hark! The Herald Angels Sing.\" For the point, name this English 
religious reformer, the founder of Methodism. 
ANSWER: John  
Wesley 
030-13-87-11109 
10. This president unsuccessfully nominated Abe Fortas as Chief Justice. He appointed Robert Weaver as 
the first Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. The third volume of Robert Caro's massive 
biography of this president concerns his time as \"Master of the Senate.\" This president created the National 
Endowment of the Arts, Head Start, and Medicare, elements of his Great Society. For the point, name this 
Texan president who signed the Civil Rights Act after John F. Kennedy's assassination. 
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines  
Johnson 
080-13-87-11110 
11. Philip Freneau was called \"the Poet of\" this conflict for poems such as a description of a prison ship. A 
character sleeps through this conflict after drinking the liquor of his nine-pin companions in a novella. In 
another book, a man killed by a cannonball in this war frightens the schoolmaster Ichabod Crane into 
leaving Sleepy Hollow. For the point, name this war depicted in \"The British Prison-Ship,\" whose results 
shock Rip van Winkle when a tavern replaces a picture of George III. 
ANSWER: American  
Revolution 
ary War 
121-13-87-11111 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 1     Page  2 of 6 
12. This President revised the Naturalization Act of 1790 to include non-whites. During his Presidency, Jay 
Gould and James Fisk cornered the gold market and ruined the economy for a period. This man's 
Vice-President, Schuyler Colfax, was replaced following the Credit Mobilier scandal. For the point, name 
this Reconstruction-era President who obtained an \"unconditional surrender\" from Robert E. Lee during the 
Civil War. 
ANSWER: Ulysses S.  
Grant 
227-13-87-11112 
13. The First French Republic sent an expedition led by Jean Humbert to aid a 1798 rebellion in what is 
now this country. Roger Casement gave German weapons to leaders of a 1916 \"rising\" in this present-day 
country. The Black and Tans operated in what's now this country, where Michael Collins was part of the 
Sinn Fein party. It gained independence in 1922 from Britain. For the point, name this country which, 
seventy years prior, suffered a great famine resulting from potato blight. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Ireland 
 [or  
Irish 
 Free State] 
232-13-87-11113 
14. NHL regulations on stick curvature were implemented due to an offensive duo for this team, including 
its longtime center Stan Mikita. One of this team’s marquee players left in 1972 to sign a million dollar 
contract with the Winnipeg Jets; that player was Bobby Hull. Jonathan Toews led this team to 
championship wins in 2010 over the Flyers and 2013 over the Bruins. For the point, name this NHL team 
and current Stanley Cup champion. 
ANSWER: Chicago Black 
hawks 
 [or  
Chicago 
] 
153-13-87-11114 
15. This man refused an order to execute Leon of Salamis, which came from the Thirty Tyrants of his city. 
This husband of Xanthippe (zanth-IP-ee) had two wealthy followers named Simmias and Cebes. At a legal 
proceeding, this Peloponnesian War veteran and friend of Crito called himself a \"gadfly of the state\" and 
claimed that \"the unexamined life is not worth living.\" A large jury sentenced him to death for corrupting 
young Athenian minds. For the point, name this teacher of Plato. 
ANSWER:  
Socrates 
104-13-87-11115 
16. Hugo Black investigated a scandal in this industry arising from contracts given out by Walter Brown at 
the \"Spoils Conference.\" Pricing in this industry was controlled by the CAB until a 1978 \"deregulation act\" 
signed by Jimmy Carter. France and the United Kingdom collaborated on the \"Concorde\" project, a 
landmark in this industry's history. For the point, name this American industry supported during the New 
Deal by the construction of a New York facility named for Fiorello LaGuardia. 
ANSWER: the American  
airline 
 industry [or equivalents, such as anything involving  
airplanes 
 or  
flight 
] 
080-13-87-11116 
17. This man tried to rid his land of short people by advertising a \"wonder drug\" to make them grow, and 
then deporting everyone who responded to the advertisement to islands. This leader allegedly shot eleven 
holes-in-one during his first game of golf, and was born under a double rainbow on Mount Baekdu. This 
man ordered the building of the world's largest flagpole in Propaganda Village, which sat on his southern 
border near DMZ. For the point, identify this deceased dictator of North Korea. 
ANSWER:  
Kim Jong-il 
 [prompt on partial answer; do not accept \"Kim Jong-un\"] 
233-13-87-11117 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 1     Page  3 of 6 
18. This man won fame for successfully prosecuting the corrupt governor of Sicily. This \"novus homo\" was 
consul when he delivered the \"O Tempora, O Mores\" oration and foiled a conspiracy by Catiline. He 
allegedly had his hands and tongue chopped off after being proscribed by the Second Triumvirate for 
delivering the pro-Republican  
Phillipics 
 against Mark Antony. For the point, name this famous Roman 
translator, lawyer, and orator. 
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius  
Cicero 
 [or  
Tully 
] 
153-13-87-11118 
19. One leader from this country gained power after overthrowing Washington Luis in 1930, after which he 
established the \"Estado Novo\" before being deposed in 1945. This country was led by Getulio Vargas and 
had earlier abolished slavery with the Law of the Free Womb and Golden Law. This country allied with 
Argentina and Uruguay during the War of the Triple Alliance after becoming independent under Pedro I. 
For the point, name this Portuguese-speaking South American country. 
ANSWER: Federative Republic of  
Brazil 
227-13-87-11119 
20. Fictional characters affected by this conflict include Sam's sister Addy Walker, who can be purchased 
as a doll. Matthew Broderick played a colonel in this conflict in  
Glory, 
 and the music video for \"Some 
Nights\" by fun. is also set during this war. A film character who ran blockades during this war tells his wife 
\"Frankly, my dear, I don’t give a damn.\" For the point, name this war which affects Rhett Butler and the 
Tara plantation in  
Gone with the Wind. 
ANSWER: American  
Civil War 
104-13-87-11120 
21. This man's last wife, an actress, introduced \"model operas\" about revolutionary themes such as  
 The 
Legend of the Red Lantern. 
 This leader decided to let \"a hundred flowers bloom\" in a rare display of 
openness, but then instituted an Anti-Rightist Campaign. He encouraged backyard steel furnaces during the 
Great Leap Forward, and his Red Guards wrought violence during the Cultural Revolution. For the point, 
name this first Communist leader of China. 
ANSWER:  
Mao 
 Zedong [or  
Mao 
 Tse-tung] 
190-13-87-11121 
22. This man was made a captain in the army of Henry Volda during time he spent fighting in Eastern 
Europe. This leader instituted a policy of \"he who shall not work shall not eat,\" and was forced by injury to 
leave shortly before the Starving Time. A story told by this man describes how he was saved from 
execution by the intervention of Pocahontas. For the point, name this English explorer who was one of the 
early leaders of Jamestown. 
ANSWER: John  
Smith 
023-13-87-11122 
23. During this man's Presidency, the White House screened the pro-KKK film  
The Birth of a Nation. 
 A 
campaign against dissidents by his Attorney General, A. Mitchell Palmer, escalated the first Red Scare. His 
first election victory was helped by Theodore Roosevelt’s Bull Moose party splitting the Republican vote. 
He ran for re-election with the slogan \"He kept us out of war.\" For the point, name this President who 
proposed the League of Nations as part of his Fourteen Points. 
ANSWER: Woodrow  
Wilson 
185-13-87-11123 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 1     Page  4 of 6 
24. This man's regime used the Vagrancy Act to prosecute Gypsy musicians. This person led the Moroccan 
Regulares, a volunteer force that fought in the Rif War. He was opposed in France by the \"maquis.\" This 
man combined the royalist Carlists with an ideology created by Jose Primo de Rivera, the Falange. He led a 
1936 coup that began a war in which he had Italian and Nazi backing against the Republicans. For the 
point, name this dictator of Spain until 1975. 
ANSWER: Francisco  
Franco 
 y Bahamonde 
232-13-87-11124 
25. This dynasty followed the Eighteen Kingdoms period and was rivals with the Chu Kingdom. This 
dynasty's Emperor Guangwu came to power after the Red Eyebrow rebellion overthrew the Xin (SHIN) 
Dynasty of Wang Mang. Liu Bang founded this dynasty, that fought the Trung sisters in Vietnam. Emperor 
Wu ruled this dynasty that built its capital at Chang’an. This dynasty reunited China after the fall of the 
Qin (CHIN) Dynasty. For the point, what dynasty gives its name to the largest Chinese ethnic group? 
ANSWER:  
Han 
 dynasty 
232-13-87-11125 
26. Johann Peter Salomon brought Joseph Haydn to this city to write twelve symphonies. Fireworks set off 
in this city's Green Park, to celebrate the signing of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, were accompanied by 
Handel's  
Music for Royal Fireworks. 
 The title character of Alban Berg's opera  
Lulu 
 is walking the streets of 
this city when she is murdered by Jack the Ripper. For the point, identify this city where the Royal Albert 
Hall hosts the BBC Proms every year. 
ANSWER:  
London 
066-13-87-11126 
27. Dick Wilson's creation of the GOONs to administer one of these locations provoked a 1973 standoff led 
by Russell Means. The AIM clashed with the FBI in one of these places in the Pine Ridge Shootout. The 
notorious \"blood quantum\" system was used to determine legitimate residence in these locations. Since 
some state gaming laws do not apply in these areas, they often make their money from casinos. For the 
point, name these areas administered by American Indian tribes. 
ANSWER: American Indian  
reservations 
080-13-87-11127 
28. A governor of this state opposed using federal troops to end the Pullman Strike. The \"house divided\" 
speech was given in this state, during a race against a senator who advocated the Freeport Doctrine and was 
the Presidential nominee for the Northern Democrats in 1860. This state was governed by John Peter 
Altgeld and was once represented in Congress by the first Republican President. For the point, name this 
state that sent Stephen Douglas and Abraham Lincoln to Congress. 
ANSWER:  
Illinois 
185-13-87-11128 
29. A landmark in this city had a series of tunnels where animals and slaves were kept. This city, the center 
of the Lazio region, once had a nearby port that is now the suburb of Ostia. The Alban Hills lie south of this 
city, that is surrounded by the \"campagna.\" This city, built on seven hills, lies on the Tiber River. For the 
point, the Pantheon and the Colosseum are located in what center of a classical empire? 
ANSWER:  
Rome 
 [or  
Roma 
] 
232-13-87-11129 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 1     Page  5 of 6 
30. The first effective treatment for this disease was Salvarsan. The first recorded outbreak of this disease 
occurred in a French army camp outside Naples. The tertiary form of this disease can cause the 
disintegration of cartilage and mental illness from damage to the nervous system. This disease most likely 
originated in the Americas before being brought to Europe on Columbus's first voyage. For the point, name 
this often sexually transmitted disease which can lead to the loss of one's nose. 
ANSWER:  
syphillis 
230-13-87-11130 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 1     Page  6 of 6 
