VHSL States 2011 
Round 3 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In one novel set during this war, a soldier conditioned as an infant by Dr. Laszlo Jamf (LASS-low 
YAWMF) encounters the sadistic Captain Blicero. That novel, which is set during this war, begins with the 
line \"A screaming comes across the sky,\" and focuses on the adventures of Tyrone Slothrop. In another 
novel set during this war, the death of Snowden causes a lieutenant to attempt to get himself declared 
insane in order to avoid Colonel Cathcart's bombing missions. For 10 points, name this war which is the 
backdrop for Thomas Pynchon's novel  
Gravity's Rainbow 
 and Joseph Heller's novel  
Catch-22 
. 
ANSWER:  
World War II 
004-11-25-03101 
2. This woman is the widow of the former host of  
GE College Bowl 
, Allen Ludden. She currently plays the 
caretaker Elka on the original TV Land show  
Hot in Cleveland 
. An earlier TV role saw this actress play 
former St. Olaf resident Rose Nylund. In an Emmy winning guest appearance, this actress made jokes with 
Molly Shannon and played MacGruber’s grandmother. For 10 points, name this veteran sitcom actress and 
former  
Golden Girl 
, the oldest person to ever guest host  
Saturday Night Live 
. 
ANSWER: Betty  
White 
 [or Betty  
Ludden 
] 
052-11-25-03102 
3. This action was prompted by a twenty-five percent wage cut following an economic panic, with no 
corresponding drop in prices at the company town's stores. One of the chief foes of this action was Richard 
Olney, who used an injunction against its organizers. Allies of this event included governor John Peter 
Altgeld, who protested Grover Cleveland's attempt to end it. Months later, Cleveland attempted to calm 
tensions resulting from this event by signing a bill creating Labor Day. Eugene Debs went to prison for 
organizing, for 10 points, what 1894 labor action against a manufacturer of railroad sleeping cars? 
ANSWER:  
Pullman 
 Strike 
019-11-25-03103 
4. In x86, a table of these of interrupts is stored starting at address zero. In the Flynn classification, the 
instructions operating on these are of the SIMD type. In the C++ STL, the class by this name is essentially 
a dynamic array. This type of graphics is contrasted to raster or bitmaps images and the standard for this 
type of graphics is called SVG. For 10 points, name this word that also describes mathematical entities that 
have direction and magnitude, thus contrasting with scalars. 
ANSWER:  
vector 
s 
001-11-25-03104 
5. An elementary school is part of the first five floors of a building this man designed to be the tallest 
residential structure in the world, the recently completed Beekman Tower. This man designed a building 
for a foundation created by Paul Allen, and that Experience Music Project building is adjacent to the Space 
Needle. A building this man designed with Vlado Milunic (mee-LOO-nitch) was originally named \"Fred 
and Ginger.\" This man used erratic light-catching curves for an art museum he designed to resemble a ship. 
For 10 points, name this architect and designer of the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles and Bilbao 
branch of the Guggenheim Museum. 
ANSWER: Frank Owen  
Gehry 
002-11-25-03105 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One poet from this country wrote  
Exile at Home 
 as well as  
Not of this Time, Not of this Place 
. This 
country awards the Bialik (bee-AL-ick) Prize in literature, which has been won by authors such as David 
Grossman and A. B. Yehoshua (yeh-HO-shwah). Another writer from this country is the author of  
A Tale 
of Love and Darkness 
, Amos Oz. Its capital gives its name to a hymn based on William Blake's poem \"And 
did those feet in ancient time.\" For 10 points, name this country whose literature is often written in Yiddish 
or Hebrew. 
ANSWER: State of  
Israel 
024-11-25-03106 
7. One type of these cells mediates delayed hypersensitivity reactions. A compound secreted by one type of 
these cells is chemically similar to complement protein C9, and makes a hole in the plasma membrane 
through which water can enter a cell. That compound, perforin, is produced by the type of these cells that 
recognize MHC Class I and CD8 molecules. In addition to the cytotoxic type, another thype of these cells 
is destroyed in AIDS. For 10 points, name these lymphocytes produced in the thymus. 
ANSWER:   lymphocytes [accept  
T cytotoxic T 
 cells until \"cytotoxic\"] 
003-11-25-03107 
8. The signal to begin this event was the Eurovision entry from the country in which this event occurred. 
This event was led by the left-wing Armed Forces Movement. After this event, the country endured the 
lengthy Continuing Revolutionary Process. The end of this event saw Marcelo Caetano surrender to 
General Spinola in a police station, and the military proceeded to hold control of the country until the 
election of Mario Soares. For 10 points, name this 1974 military overthrow of the government of Portugal's 
Estado Novo, which was named for the flowers carried by the soldiers. 
ANSWER:  
Carnation 
 Revolution 
002-11-25-03108 
9. The Cauchy condensation test is used to test for one property of these entities. Joseph Fourier defined 
one which can be used to approximate periodic functions, while those in which the individual entities 
cancel each other out are known as telescoping. The ratio test can be used on them by taking the limit of the 
n+1 
 term divided by the   term and the Taylor can approximate a polynomial function. For 10 points, name 
n 
this mathematical term denoted with an uppercase sigma which gives the sum of the terms in a sequence. 
ANSWER:  
series 
064-11-25-03109 
10. This essay calls voting \"a sort of gaming like checkers and backgammon.\" It asserts that \"Under a 
government which imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a just man is also a prison,\" and goes on to 
describe its author's time in jail for refusing to pay taxes in support of the Mexican War. The nonviolent 
tactics of Martin Luther King and Gandhi were in part inspired by this essay, which begins by claiming 
\"that government is best which governs least.\" For 10 points, name this essay which argues that citizens 
should refuse to obey unjust laws, written by Henry David Thoreau. 
ANSWER: \" 
Civil Disobedience 
\" [or \" 
Resistance to Civil Government 
\"] 
004-11-25-03110 
11. One type of these entities is described by the KdV-Burgers equation. An infinite length string is 
assumed in d'Alembert's solution describing this physical phenomena. One self-reinforcing self reinforcing 
subtype are solitons. In one case, their velocity is equal to the square root of tension over density. Functions 
of these are solutions to Schrödinger's equation. Important characteristics of them include their namesake 
number, phase, and amplitude. For 10 points, name these periodic disturbances examples of which include 
light and sound. 
ANSWER:  
wave 
s 
001-11-25-03111 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This ruler sponsored over three thousand symbolic ancestor-lists which were sent to monasteries to 
commemorate dead noblemen. His regime was threatened with losing a war after Stephen Bathory became 
king of Poland, which led this ruler to ask Pope Gregory the Thirteenth to mediate the conflict. After 
emerging from that disastrous Livonian War, he became increasingly paranoid and organized the  
oprichniki 
(aap-RICH-nick-ee) to terrorize his enemies. For 10 points, name this Rurikid Dynasty ruler who killed his 
own son and left Russia in shambles on his 1584 death. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan the Terrible 
 [or  
Ivan IV 
 of Russia; or  
Ivan Vasilyevich 
; or  
Ivan Grozny 
; prompt on  
Ivan 
] 
019-11-25-03112 
13. These people believed in a goddess named \"mother tree\" who appeared as a two-headed snake. In this 
people's origin myth, a golden stick was repeatedly pushed into the ground until sinking at a fertile place. 
These people believed in a rain god who kept the Milky Way in a jug. The creator of the world in this 
people's mythology announced his departure at Manta and walked away across the ocean, leaving daily 
affairs in the hands of such figures as Mama Quilla and the sun god Inti. For 10 points, name this people 
that worshipped Ilyapa and Viracocha from temples in modern-day Peru. 
ANSWER:  
Inca 
 [or  
Inca 
ns] 
019-11-25-03113 
14. During one of his earliest managing jobs, this man was responsible for moving Dale Murphy to center 
field. This man was the first manager to guide the Toronto Blue Jays into the postseason. His only World 
Series win came when David Justice homered in a 1-0 victory over the Cleveland Indians, while his teams 
lost to the Yankees twice in the 1990’s. From 1995 to 2005, this man’s team won the NL East every year. 
This man holds the record for the most ejections by a manager in baseball history. For 10 points, name this 
recently retired longtime manager of the Atlanta Braves. 
ANSWER: Bobby  
Cox 
 [or Robert Joseph  
Cox 
] 
052-11-25-03114 
15. Brown-Sequard syndrome results from a hemisection of this structure. The inferior end of this structure 
contains the conus medullaris, whose projections are known as the cauda equina. It contains dorsal and 
ventral horns, as well as columns known as tracts. Like a related structure, it is divided into cervical, 
thoracic, lumbar, and sacral sections. CSF is removed from this structure in a namesake \"tap.\" For 10 
points, name this part of the central nervous system that communicates between the brain and the peripheral 
nervous system. 
ANSWER:  
spinal cord 
003-11-25-03115 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 3 
Directed Round 
1A.  Name the Czech author who described the ordeals of Joseph K in  
The Trial 
 and depicted Gregor 
Samsa as a cockroach in  
The Metamorphosis 
. 
ANSWER: Franz  
Kafka 
1B.  What mountain range in northern Africa has its highest peak at Toubkal? 
ANSWER:  
Atlas 
 Mountains 
2A.  What Scottish philosopher attacked the argument from design in  
 Dialogues Concerning Natural 
Religion 
 and wrote  
An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding 
? 
ANSWER: David  
Hume 
2B.  What features are studied by speleologists and often feature stalagmites and stalactites? 
ANSWER:  
cave 
s 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the mean mass of four Jovians 
whose masses are 600 kilograms, 200 kilograms, 140 kilograms and 240 kilograms? 
ANSWER:  
295 
 kilograms 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the probability of drawing a 9, 10 or face card from a 
deck of normal playing cards? 
ANSWER:  
5/13 
4A.  Name the type of acid defined as any molecule that accepts a lone electron pair. 
ANSWER:  
Lewis 
 acid 
4B.  What word can be used to describe the point at which a liquid and gas become identical or an angle 
needed for total internal reflection? 
ANSWER:  
critical 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is quantity x + 1 end quantity times quantity 5 x - 5 end 
quantity all divided by quantity x  - 1 end quantity. 
2 
ANSWER:  
5 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What are the polar coordinates of the Cartesian ordered pair 
(0, 4)? 
ANSWER: r =   and theta =  
4 pi/2 
 radians [or theta =   degrees] 
90 
6A.  What pointillist work by Georges Seurat features a monkey on a leash? 
ANSWER:  
Sunday Afternoon On The Island of La Grande Jatte , 1884 
 [ 
Un dimanche après-midi à l'Île 
de la Grande Jatte  - 1884 
] 
6B.  Name the Don DeLillo work featuring an \"airborne toxic event\" in which Jack Gladney teaches Hitler 
Studies at College-On-The-Hill. 
ANSWER:  
White Noise 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. For what values of x does the polynomial 2 x  + 4 x - 16 
2 
equal 32? 
ANSWER: x =   and x =  
4 -6 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the surface area of a isoceles 
triangular prism whose faces have a base side length of 14 and other side lengths of 25 and whose height is 
9? 
ANSWER:  
912 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8A.  What musical ensemble consists of two violin players, a cellist, and a violist? 
ANSWER:  
string quartet 
8B.  What Wisconsin politician replaced Michael Steele as chairman of the Republican National 
Committee in 2011? 
ANSWER: Reince  
Priebus 
9A.  Name the Venezualan whose campaigns against Spain brought independene to much of South 
America, including a country with capital at La Paz which was named after him. 
ANSWER: Simon  
Bolivar 
9B.  What apostle of Jesus was the brother of Peter and was crucified on an X-shaped cross? 
ANSWER: Saint  
Andrew 
10A.  Name this French scientist whose early theory of evolution erroneously claimed that animals could 
inherit characteristics acquired during their lifetime. 
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste  
Lamarck 
10B.  What river makes up the northern border of Kentucky and is formed by the confluence of the 
Allegheny and Monogahela in Pittsburgh? 
ANSWER:  
Ohio 
 River 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 3 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In the Riedel equation, this quantity divided by RT makes up one half of the equation. A characteristic 
exponent of 0.38 is used in Watson's equation for calculating this quantity given its value at another point. 
This can be derived from a combination of the B and C Antoine constants along with the second virial 
coefficient. It looses its meaning beyond the critical point. This energy is used to overcome the 
intermolecular interactions between molecules. For 10 points, name this energy required to convert a unit 
of liquid into a gas at the boiling point. 
ANSWER: latent  
heat of vaporization 
 [or  
enthalpy of vaporization 
] 
001-11-25-03117 
2. An attempt by this man to answer the question of how a poet comes to terms with all the great poetry 
was subtitled “A Theory of Poetry.” This man adapted his doctoral dissertation into a work in which he 
uses Buber’s idea of “I and Thou” to describe the romantic poets relation with nature. In addition to  
 The 
Anxiety of Influence 
 and  
Shelley’s Mythmaking 
, this man concluded in another work that all writers 
regardless of period must be judged in terms of William Shakespeare. For 10 points, name this Yale 
professor, a literary critic and author of  
The Western Canon 
. 
ANSWER: Harold  
Bloom 
002-11-25-03118 
3. A parody of this song was ruined by not knowing how the word “Sabre” is pronounced in an episode of  
The Office 
. Controversy ensued when a performance of this song featured the singer dancing on an ice 
cream cart with a pole at the Teen Choice Awards. The music video for this song features the singer 
arriving at the Corral Drive-In and then singing at a jungle gym. The singer complains she never got the 
memo about wearing stilettos, but is reassured when she hears the music of Britney Spears and Jay-Z, 
which causes her to nod her head and move her hips “like yeah.” For 10 points, name this Miley Cyrus hit 
about a celebration in America. 
ANSWER: “ 
Party in the U.S.A. 
” 
052-11-25-03119 
4. Characters in this play discuss where they will get a white horse before instead deciding to swear an oath 
over a bowl of Thasian wine. In one part of this play, Myrrhine (mih-REE-nee) continually wanders 
offstage to obtain, among other things, a cot, a pillow, and two different kinds of perfumes. Only the 
Spartan Lampito initially agrees to the title character's plan. For 10 points, name this Aristophanes play in 
which a group of women attempt to stop a war by withholding sex from their husbands. 
ANSWER:  
Lysistrata 
003-11-25-03120 
5. Many members of this movement joined groups known as \"the underbrush\" in response to an order for 
conscript labor. Its leaders took code names such as \"Max\" and \"Aubrac\" and attempted to unify such 
predecessor organizations as the Museum of Man group and the Committee of Socialist Action. Formally 
led by Jean Moulin, this movement opposed both the Milice and the Gestapo through such actions as 
blowing up factories and locomotives, most notably in the run-up to D-Day. For 10 points, identify this 
organized opposition to Vichy and the Nazi occupation government in World War II France. 
ANSWER: the French  
resistance 
 [or la  
Résistance 
; or National  
Resistance 
 Council; or Conseil National 
de la  
Résistance 
] 
019-11-25-03121 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. This man wrote a poem in which Patience counsels that \"They also serve who only stand and wait.\" That 
poem, about this author's loss of sight, begins with the line \"When I consider how my light is spent.\" A 
prose work by this author claims that “A good book is the precious lifeblood of a master spirit,” and that 
“he who kills a good Book kills reason itself” in a work that defends the ideals of a free press. For 10 
points, name this author of  
Areopagitica 
 (AIR-ee-OP-uh-JIT-ih-kah), a British poet who wrote an account 
of the fall of man in his  
Paradise Lost 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Milton 
002-11-25-03122 
7. This property of compounds is utilized in a form of chromatography developed by Shaltiel. That 
technique uses sepharose beads and \"salting out.\" Examples of amino acids with this distinction include 
leucine, valine, and phenylalanine. This property is caused entropic driven interactions. Structures in the 
center of a micelle have this distinction. Substances described by this are usually non-polar such as 
hydrocarbons. For 10 points, name this property of not interacting with water to the point of seemingly 
being repelled by it. 
ANSWER:  
hydrophobic 
 [accept word forms] 
001-11-25-03123 
8. Recently, the husband of Verity Firth, a minister from this country, was charged with drug possession. 
This country's most recent election saw its first hung parliament since 1940 and the defeat of Tony Abbott. 
This country's treasurer, Wayne Swan, has defended a proposed levy to help rebuild the areas which were 
ravaged by floods in December 2010 and January 2011. For 10 points, name this country led by Julia 
Gillard which suffered floods in its state of Queensland. 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Australia 
024-11-25-03124 
9. This President sent Winfield Scott Hancock to handle the Great Railroad Strike. Although this man sent 
his Secretary of State William Evarts to the International Monetary Conference, he brought America back 
to the gold standard. This president's wife was committed to keeping the White House alcohol-free, leading 
to her nickname of Lemonade Lucy. Florida, Louisiana, and South Carolina were won by this man 
according to an Electoral Commission that granted him victory over Samuel Tilden. For 10 points, name 
this victor of the election of 1876, whose ascension led to the end of Reconstruction. 
ANSWER: Rutherford Birchard  
Hayes 
020-11-25-03125 
10. This molecule can be introduced into cells after electroporation. Fragments of this molecule can be 
detected by a Southern blot. It is introduced into cells via transfection. The P element consists of this 
molecule, which can be sequenced via the Sanger chain-termination method. This molecule can be 
duplicated by Taq polymerase in the polymerase chain reaction. For 10 points, name this molecule, a 
complementary version of which can be made from mRNA by reverse transcriptase. 
ANSWER:  
DNA 
 [or  
deoxyribonucleic acid 
] 
003-11-25-03126 
11. He composed an opera that includes a Roman emperor ordering Seneca to commit suicide, and the 
empress plotting to kill the title mistress of the emperor. He composed an opera based on  
The Odyssey 
entitled  
The Return of Ulysses to his Homeland 
. One of his operas includes the aria \"Possente spirto\" 
(poe-SENT-tay SPEAR-tow). His opera about Nero's court is  
The Coronation of Poppea 
. His first opera 
was about a Greek musician who traveled to the underworld to rescue his dead wife. For 10 points, name 
this composer of  
Orfeo 
. 
ANSWER: Claudio Giovanni Antonio  
Monteverdi 
027-11-25-03127 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This author challenged assumptions of loss and depletion in the aging process in her book  
The Fountain 
of Age 
. She identified the necessity of going beyond reacting against grievances in  
The Second Stage 
. 
Along with Shirley Chisholm and 26 others, she was a cofounder of the National Organization for Women. 
In 1963, she published a book arguing that women were doomed to unhappiness because of the delusion 
that their worth was tied up in their role as mother and wife. For 10 points, name this author of  
The 
Feminine Mystique 
. 
ANSWER: Betty  
Friedan 
015-11-25-03128 
13. The conditional of this language is formed by adding “ia” and personal endings directly to the 
infinitive. It employs a “personal a” when a person is the direct object of a verb. In this language, verbs 
ending in “zar” may change to end in “ce” to form the first person of the past tense. It distinguishes 
between two words for “for,” “por” and “para,” and it employs a formal second-person pronoun, “usted.” 
For 10 points, name this language, which is spoken in Argentina and Chile. 
ANSWER:  
Spanish 
 [or  
Español 
; or  
Castilian 
; or  
Castellano 
] 
080-11-25-03129 
14. In one story by this writer, a star tackle mentions a train to meet his eligibility requirement of being able 
to name a mode of transportation. That tale, “University Days,” is recounted in this author’s 
autobiographical  
My Life and Hard Times 
. A character created by this man destroys an alibi, during his trial 
for murder, of his arm having been in a sling by exclaiming he is ambidextrous and punching an attorney. 
That character also pilots a Navy hydroplane and performs a miraculous surgery. For 10 points, name this 
American satirist who wrote \"The Secret Life of Walter Mitty.\" 
ANSWER: James  
Thurber 
002-11-25-03130 
15. This process can be lengthened by a “challenge for cause” or through a “peremptory challenge,” in 
which no reason needs to be supplied. It can also be lengthened when ensuring moderate views in order to 
achieve a “death qualification.” If excessive publicity causes this process to be untenable locally, a “change 
of venue” can be requested. One step in this process is a round of questioning called “voir dire.” For 10 
points, name this legal process which in the United States usually results in the “impaneling” of twelve 
people to serve at a trial. 
ANSWER:  
jury selection 
 [accept logical equivalents] 
015-11-25-03131 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 3 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Francis Bacon’s first published work had this word as its title, and featured such examples as “Of 
Friendship” and “Of Truth.” A collection with this word as its title included the notable section “An 
Apology for Raymond Sebond.” This word names a literary genre of which Joseph Addison collected 
many examples of in his  
Spectator 
 publication. Alexander Pope wrote one of these “on Criticism” and one 
of them “on Man.” For 10 points, name this word, which names a collection by Michel de Montaigne and 
which has come to mean any short piece of writing. 
ANSWER:  
essay 
052-11-25-03132 
2. General James Wilkinson took military control of this city after informing President Jefferson about a 
conspiracy led by Aaron Burr centered here. The United States gained access and trading rights in this port 
under Pinckney's Treaty. After the discovery of the Treaty of San Ildefonso, Robert Livingston was 
authorized to purchase this city for $2 million dollars. The recovery from a disaster in this city was 
overseen by a man that described it as a \"chocolate city.\" For 10 points, name this southern city once led by 
mayor Ray Nagin that in August 2005 was hit by Hurricane Katrina. 
ANSWER:  
New Orleans 
002-11-25-03133 
3. This man names a model of a solid which says each atom is a quantum harmonic oscillator. This scientist 
proposed the “Hole Argument” to help explain one of his theories. One of his papers argues that organisms 
moving at the speed of light would not age as compared to those who remained, which inspired the twin 
paradox. Among his “ 
Annus Mirabilis 
” papers of 1905 are his explanation of a stochastic model of 
Brownian motion. This man’s Nobel Prize came for his explanation of the photoelectric effect. For 10 
points, name this German physicist who developed the theory of general relativity. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Einstein 
052-11-25-03134 
4. This is the method of Daniel Quilp's death in  
The Old Curiosity Shop 
. Frankenstein's monster is shot 
after saving a girl from dying in this fashion. Thomas Gray wrote an elegy for a cat who died in this way. 
After falling out of a willow tree, Ophelia dies in this way in  
Hamlet 
. Also the real-life cause of death of 
Virginia Woolf and Percy Shelley is, for 10 points, what action that, in a Leigh Hunt poem, happened to 
Leander while trying to swim the Hellespont? 
ANSWER:  
drown 
ing 
003-11-25-03135 
5. This term may have originated with Alexander Hamilton, who used it in Federalist 11. Two months after 
the speech introducing this concept was delivered, Congress responded by increasing tariffs on iron, wool, 
and finished clothing. This program's creator micromanaged parts of it, such as choosing Wheeling to be 
where the National Road crossed the Ohio River. This proposal also included the creation of a central bank 
and federal funding for canals. For 10 points, name this program, advocated from 1824 by Henry Clay, 
which proposed various forms of economic nationalism for the United States. 
ANSWER:  
American System 
019-11-25-03136 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
This is a calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the equivalent resistance of two 10 ohm resistors 
connected in parallel? It may help to know that this is equivalent to dividing the harmonic mean of the two 
resistors' resistances by two. 
ANSWER:   ohms 
5 
019-11-25-03137 
The jaguarundi and caracal are members of what family of mammals? 
ANSWER:  
felidae 
 [or  
cat 
s] 
019-11-25-03137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2011     Round 3     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
