2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 7 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This country’s six classical schools of philosophy include those devoted to enumeration, atomism, and 
logic. Kautilya authored a Machiavellian tract on government for a ruler from this modern-day country. In  
The World as Will and Representation, 
 Schopenhauer borrowed ancient ascetic philosophy from this 
country. Satyagraha originated from this country. For 10 points, name this country where the Vedas are an 
ancient work of Hindu philosophy. 
ANSWER:  
India 
190-13-90-07101 
2. This structure is made up of coordinate glycosphingolipids and proteins called lipid rafts. Integral 
proteins span this structure, which mostly consists of amphipathic molecules with polar head groups and 
fatty acid tails. The fluid mosaic model explains the fluidity of this structure, though cholesterol in it adds 
rigidity. For 10 points, name this semipermeable structure made up of a phospholipid bilayer surrounding 
cells. 
ANSWER: cell  
membrane 
 [or plasma  
membrane 
] 
190-13-90-07102 
3. This character’s arrival, dressed as the Red Death, to announce the completion of his opera  
Don Juan 
Triumpant 
 marks the transition to “Why so silent?” from “Masquerade.” This character is jealous of Raoul, 
the love interest of a Swede whom he trained to sing “Think of Me” and whom he serenades in “The Music 
of the Night.” For 10 points, name this Andrew Lloyd-Webber musical character who loves Christine, a 
Paris opera house. 
ANSWER: The  
Phantom 
 of the Opera [or  
Erik 
; or the  
Opera Ghost 
; or the  
Angel of Music 
] 
153-13-90-07103 
4. The title character of one of this author's poems scorns Harold Wilson for studying Latin “like the 
violin” and says he has “come to ditch the meadows.” That poem concludes with Warren telling Mary that 
Silas has died. This author of “The Death of the Hired Man” described a time “in a yellow wood” where he 
chose the path “less traveled by, and that has made all the difference.” For 10 points, name this poet of 
“The Road Not Taken.” 
ANSWER: Robert  
Frost 
121-13-90-07104 
5. A “legal” form of this language is used for contracts on an island home to the Jerriais language. It was 
once spoken in the Missouri Ozarks, whose name comes from this language. This language’s word for 
“yes” once distinguished it from the southern Occitan language. Although not Germanic, this language 
uses a guttural R sound. This language’s counting system is based on the number twenty, and its dialects 
include Acadian, Belgian, and Swiss. For 10 points, name this language spoken in Quebec. 
ANSWER:  
French 
 [or  
francais 
] 
232-13-90-07105 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  1 of 9 
6. These actions were frequently performed by the 1983 “Fun Bunch” and by rookie star Ickey Woods. 
Terrell Owens once used a sharpie when performing it, and State Farm commercials have highlighted 
Aaron Rodgers’ “Discount Double Check” move in doing it. These actions can result in flags for excessive 
celebrations, although that does not affect the Lambeau Leap performed by Green Bay Packers players. For 
10 points, name this action frequently involving dancing by players who score in football. 
ANSWER:  
touchdown celebration 
s [or  
endzone dance 
s; or obvious equivalents that include  
touchdown 
] 
052-13-90-07106 
7. The complex version of this quantity is related to the square roots of the complex dielectric constants, 
and the Lorentz-Lorenz equation gives this value for a dilute gas. This quantity is often measured at the 
wavelength of the sodium D-line. For 10 points, identify this optical quantity which relates the speed of 
light in a medium to its speed in a vacuum, changes in which cause light to bend. 
ANSWER:  
index of refraction 
 [or  
refractive index 
; prompt on \"refraction\" or word forms; prompt on 
\"n\"] 
234-13-90-07107 
8. Thiourea catalysts rely on these phenomena, which allows hydrogen fluoride to form hexamers and 
carboxylic acids to form dimers in solution. They occur between the ith and I plus 4th residues of a 
standard alpha helix, and two of these are present between an AT-pair in DNA, while 3 of them are present 
between a GC pair. These phenomena require an electronegative donor atom to give up an atom of a certain 
element. For 10 points, name this weak type of interaction formed by a bridge of the lightest element. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen bond 
048-13-90-07108 
9. This man wrote a series of interconnected stories called  
The Illustrated Man 
, and in one of his works, the 
Hadley children murder their parents with lions in a three dimensional television nursery. This author of 
“The Veldt” wrote a story about how Eckles’ killing a butterfly altered history as well as a novel in which 
the fireman Guy Montag attempts to escape the mechnical hound. For 10 points, name this author of “A 
Sound of Thunder” and  
Farenheit 451 
. 
ANSWER: Ray  
Bradbury 
030-13-90-07109 
10. This character's illiteracy and small feet are clues of his innocence in an episode where he is framed for 
armed robbery. His career was briefly threatened by the popularity of the ventriloquist dummy Gabbo. In 
an episode parodying  
The Jazz Singer, 
 it is revealed his father is a rabbi who has disowned him. Sideshow 
Mel works on his TV show, which also shows the Itchy and Scratchy cartoon. For 10 points, name this 
entertainer whose show is watched by Bart and Lisa Simpson. 
ANSWER:  
Krusty 
 the Clown [or Herschel  
Krustofsky 
] 
121-13-90-07110 
11. In this novel, Tommy Dukes proposes that civilization will be saved by \"the democracy of touch.\" Mrs. 
Bolton cares for a man who becomes obsessed with coal-mining in this novel. Taking place around the 
estate of Wragby, its protagonist sleeps with Michaelis and makes love to a gamekeeper on the forest floor. 
This novel's protagonist's husband is a paralyzed intellectual. For 10 points, name this novel about Connie's 
affair with Oliver Mellors, by D.H. Lawrence. 
ANSWER:  
Lady Chatterley's Lover 
192-13-90-07111 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  2 of 9 
12. A man who held this title built a palace that effectively founded the Croatian city of Split. Another man 
who held it said “Oh, I think I’m becoming a god” as he dies. Two men who held it fought at the Battle of 
the Milvian Bridge. The institution of the Tetrarchy meant four men effectively held this title. Suetonius 
wrote a biography of the first eleven men to hold it. In 69 CE, four men, including Galba and Vespasian, 
held this title. For 10 points, name this title first held by Augustus Caesar. 
ANSWER:  
Roman emperor 
052-13-90-07112 
13. This composer wrote the second movement of one of his piano concertos with the soprano Constantia 
Gladkowska in mind. A waltz written by this composer was inspired by the sight of George Sand's dog 
chasing its tail. This composer of the \"Minute Waltz\" created a piece in which the right hand only plays 
black keys, and he wrote nearly seventy mazurkas. For 10 points, name this Polish-born French composer 
who created the \"Black Key\" and \"Revolutionary\" etudes. 
ANSWER: Frederic Francois  
Chopin 
 [or Fryderyk Franciszek  
Szopen 
] 
023-13-90-07113 
14. This process is accompanied by the secretion of the antimicrobial protein dermcidin. A common test for 
cystic fibrosis involves inducing this process. The product of this process includes pheromones when it 
occurs from apocrine glands, but not from eccrine glands. Heat stroke is often caused when this regulatory 
mechanism shuts down, preventing its evaporative cooling mechanism. For 10 points, name this process by 
which the skin secretes salt water. 
ANSWER:  
perspiration 
 [or word forms; or  
sweat 
ing or word forms] 
190-13-90-07114 
15. Numbers in this set can be found by taking powers of the matrix with rows 1, 1 and 1, 0, or more 
explicitly with Binet's formula. The Lucas numbers have the same recurrence relation as this sequence, 
which is why the ratio of its terms also tends to the golden ratio. Leonardo of Pisa derived this sequence by 
considering a set of rabbits which mated with each other each month. For 10 points, identify this sequence 
starting 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, in which each term is the sum of the previous two. 
ANSWER:  
Fibonacci 
 numbers [or  
Fibonacci 
 sequence] 
233-13-90-07115 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 7 
Directed Round 
1A.  What simple sorting algorithm swaps adjacent items if they are out of order? 
ANSWER:  
bubble 
 sort 
1B.  What Ayn Rand-inspired underwater city is inhabited by Big Daddies and serves as the setting of  
Bioshock 
? 
ANSWER:  
Rapture 
2A.  What cult leader set up a namesake town in Guyana and ordered his followers to commit mass suicide 
via poisoned Kool-Aid? 
ANSWER: Jim  
Jones 
2B.  What operon found in  
E. coli 
 is used to metabolize the sugar found in milk? 
ANSWER:  
lac 
 operon 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Sphere A has a volume 64 times that of sphere B. What is the 
ratio of the radius of Sphere A to that of Sphere B? 
ANSWER:   [or   to 1] 
4 4 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If every member of the United States Senate casts a vote at 
random, with a 60% chance of voting Aye and a 40% chance of voting Nay, what is the probability of 
Virginia's two senators voting differently? 
ANSWER:  
48% 
 [or  
0.48 
; or  
12/25 
] 
4A.  What country is known for forests of its namesake cedar tree, which is depicted on its flag? 
ANSWER:  
Lebanon 
 [or  
Lebanese 
 Republic] 
4B.  What largest region of the ocean floor lies below the continental rise, is very flat, and can be 
interrupted by trenches? 
ANSWER:  
abyssal plain 
5A.  What Russian term was used to refer to the period of increased transparency during Mikhail 
Gorbachev's rule? 
ANSWER: \" 
glasnost 
\" 
5B.  Lycurgus mutilated his son's body as a result of the insanity inflicted by what Greek god of wine and 
revelry? 
ANSWER:  
Dionysus 
 [or  
Bacchus 
; or  
Liber 
] 
6A.  What artist depicted Ambrogio Spinola accepting a surrender in  
The Surrender of Breda 
 and depicted 
the Infanta Margarita and her attendants in  
Las Meninas? 
ANSWER: Diego Rodriguez de Silva y  
Velazquez 
6B.  What Bernini sculpture depicts the title Carmelite nun and an angel with a spear? 
ANSWER:  
Ecstasy of St. Teresa 
 [accept  
St. Teresa in Ecstasy Transverberation of St. Teresa 
,  , or  
L'Estasi di Santa Teresa 
] 
7A.  What member of the PRI is the current President of Mexico? 
ANSWER: Enrique  
Peña Nieto 
 [do not accept or prompt on partial answer] 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  What ancient Greek playwright showed the bloody aftermath of Agamemnon's return in the  
Oresteia 
trilogy? 
ANSWER:  
Aeschylus 
8A.  What German playwright wrote  
Mother Courage and Her Children 
 and collaborated with Kurt Weill 
on  
The Threepenny Opera 
? 
ANSWER: Bertolt  
Brecht 
8B.  What French king, son of Marie de Medici, succeeded Henry IV and was married to Anne of Austria? 
ANSWER:  
Louis XIII 
 [prompt on  
Louis 
] 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the determinant of the matrix whose first row is [3 3 
2], second row is [0 -4 1], and third row is [0 -4 3]? 
ANSWER:  
-24 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Consider the graph of the function “  equals cosine of 2  .” 
y x 
Between  =0 and  =8 pi, how many times does this graph pass through  =0? 
x x y 
ANSWER:   times 
16 
10A.  What two competitors for the 2016 Republican nomination have been involved in a recent feud, as 
one of them responded to accusations of pork barrel spending by calling the other the \"king of bacon?\" 
ANSWER: Rand  
Paul 
 and Chris  
Christie 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
10B.  In  
The Wealth of Nations 
, Adam Smith used the example of a factory making what objects to argue 
for the division of labor? 
ANSWER:  
pin 
s 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 7 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In the epilogue of this novel, the main character has dreams in which a virus causes people to become 
insane and engrossed in their self beliefs. The protagonist falls in love with the prostitute Sonya by the end 
of this novel, in which Svidrigailov attempts to rape Dunya. In this novel, an impoverished man decides to 
gain wealth by murdering Alyona Ivanovna, and deals with the guilt after doing so. For 10 points, name 
this novel in which Raskolnikov murders a pawnbroker, written by Fyodor Dostoyevsky. 
ANSWER:  
Crime and Punishment 
 [or  
 Prestupleniye i nakazaniye 
] 
140-13-90-07117 
2. A prime can be written as a sum of two numbers of this type if and only if the prime leaves remainder 
one when divided by four, and Lagrange proved every positive integer can be written as the sum of at most 
four of them. The  th one of these numbers plus the  
n n+1 
th odd number yields the next one. These numbers 
have an odd number of factors, because no prime is raised to an odd power in their factorization. For 10 
points, identify these numbers like 0, 1, and 4, which you get by multiplying a number by itself. 
ANSWER:  
square 
 numbers 
233-13-90-07118 
3. In this novel, the lawyer Mr. Green arrives too late to change a dying man's will. One character in this 
novel falls in love with a young man after being bitten by a dog at his house. This novel's frame story 
concerns Lockwood, who stays at Thrushcross Grange. This novel's Byronic hero, the rival of Edgar 
Linton, is a dark orphan from the streets of London. For 10 points, name this novel about the destructive 
love between Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff, by Emily Bronte. 
ANSWER:  
Wuthering Heights 
192-13-90-07119 
4. A Chilean flamingo named Pink Floyd once lived at this lake. Its largest island is named for an animal 
shot by explorers Kit Carson and John C. Fremont when visiting it. This lake is where Robert Smithson’s 
artwork  
Spiral Jetty 
 is located, and it is where Antelope Island can be found. It is the remnant of Lake 
Bonneville, and it lends its name to a city founded by Brigham Young. For 10 points, name this lake in 
Utah known as “America’s Dead Sea.” 
ANSWER:  
Great Salt 
 Lake 
052-13-90-07120 
5. In this city, a black spot called the \"Devil's Foostep\" marks where Satan supposedly mocked its 
windowless Frauenkirche (FROW-en-kirk). This city on the Isar River is home to the BMW Headquarters. 
It hosted the 1972 Olympics, where Palestinian terrorists murdered 11 Israeli athletes. Theresa's Meadow, 
located in this city, is where millions gather annually to drink specially-brewed beer. For 10 points, name 
this site of Oktoberfest, the capital of Bavaria. 
ANSWER:  
Munich 
080-13-90-07121 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  6 of 9 
6. Debye sheaths can be found between a solid and this type of substance. Langmuir probes are used to 
measure physical properties in these substances. A tokamak is a doughnut-shaped device that contains this 
substance. Sprites, blue jets, and St. Elmo’s fire are natural examples of this type of substance. Both 
lightning and the sun are composed of this type of substance. For 10 points, name this fourth state of matter 
that is essentially an ionized gas. 
ANSWER:  
plasma 
185-13-90-07122 
7. This philosopher argued that a form of recognition called  
anagnorisis 
 accompanied \"reversal of 
intention,\" or  
peripeteia 
. In  
On Rhetoric 
, this philosopher classified argumentative techniques as  
ethos 
,  
pathos 
, and  
logos 
. He theorized that by seeing a hero fall from grace due to a tragic flaw, viewers of 
tragedy can undergo  
catharsis 
. For 10 points, name this Greek author of the  
Poetics 
, a noted student of 
Plato. 
ANSWER:  
Aristotle 
 [or  
Aristoteles 
] 
080-13-90-07123 
8. In this novel, reproduction is assisted by use of the Bokanovsky Process and Podsnap's Technique. One 
character in this novel is surprised to find out that Mustapha has read Shakespeare; this novel takes its title 
from a quote by Miranda in  
The Tempest 
. Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx meet John the Savage in this 
novel, in which people are given the drug Soma. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel set in the year 
632 After Ford that was written by Aldous Huxley. 
ANSWER:  
Brave New World 
023-13-90-07124 
9. Two conservative branches of this denomination that do not engage in merger discussions with its other 
branches are the Missouri and Wisconsin Synods. One founding member of this denomination, Philipp 
Melanchthon, formulated the Augsburg Confession, and this denomination’s namesake wrote the hymn “A 
Mighty Fortress is Our God.” For 10 points, name this Protestant denomination, prominent in Scandanavia, 
which is named for the leader of the Protestant Reformation. 
ANSWER:  
Lutheranism 
 [or variations] 
030-13-90-07125 
10. A satellite named for this man discovered that lightning emits jets of antimatter, and in his namesake 
coordinate system, the metric tensor becomes the Euclidean metric. He erroneously claimed to have 
discovered the transuranides hesperium and ausonium, for which he won the Nobel Prize. He collaborated 
with Szilard on graphite moderator designs, which he applied to the Chicago Pile-1 reactor. His namesake 
paradox asks why humanity has not encountered extraterrestrial life. For 10 points, identify this 
Italian-American nuclear physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project. 
ANSWER: Enrico  
Fermi 
234-13-90-07126 
11. This man issued the gag rule on abolitionist petitions while Speaker of the House. He lowered the tariff 
in a bill named for his secretary of the Treasury, Robert Walker. Oregon was divided along the 49th 
parallel during his administration. Nicholas Trist ignored this man's demands to return to the United States, 
instead signing the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which ended a war this President began. For 10 points, 
name this President who led the U.S. into the Mexican-American War. 
ANSWER: James Knox  
Polk 
121-13-90-07127 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  7 of 9 
12. The main character of this work buries a stranger who wore green and yellow, and that stranger’s grave 
produces corn. A woodpecker tells the title character how to defeat the magician Pearl-Feather, and the 
woodpecker is rewarded by being dipped in the magician’s blood. This poem describes the wigwam of the 
Nokomis “by the shores of Gitche Gumee.” For 10 points, name this poem about the titular husband of 
Minnehaha, a work of William Wadsworth Longfellow. 
ANSWER:  
The  Song of Hiawatha 
030-13-90-07128 
13. This man was imprisoned with Leung Quinn and Thambi Naidoo before reaching a compromise with 
Jan Smuts. This leader established an ashram at Sevagram, and he led a group of people to Dandi on the 
Salt March. This man worked for the rights of the \"untouchable\" class in his country, and he practiced a 
form of non-violent resistance called satyagraha. For 10 points, name this leader who struggled for the 
independence of India and was given the nickname Mahatma. 
ANSWER: Mohandas Karamchand  
Gandhi 
 [or Mahatma  
Gandhi 
] 
023-13-90-07129 
14. This geometry is formed by the coordinating atoms of porphyrins around a central metal. Complexes 
with this geometry obey the 16-electron rule, rather than the standard 18 electron rule. Complexes with this 
geometry include a rhuthenium-containing hydrogenation catalyst named for Wilkinson and the anticancer 
drug cisplatin. This geometry has two lone pairs and four bonds. For 10 points, identify this molecular 
geometry with bond angles of 90 degrees. 
ANSWER:  
square planar 
048-13-90-07130 
15. This phenomenon's namesake frequency is proportional to the sine of latitude. This phenomenon 
creates westerlies at the boundary of the Hadley and Ferrel cells. The Ekman spiral is created by drag and 
this phenomenon. This phenomenon causes a clockwise motion in the Northern Hemisphere. Like the 
centrifugal force, this force is fictitious. For 10 points, name this force that deflects objects moving in a 
rotating reference frame, but does not actually cause the rotation of water in your toilet. 
ANSWER:  
Coriolis 
 effect [or  
Coriolis 
 force] 
066-13-90-07131 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 7 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. H.H. Holmes confessed to murdering 27 women in this city during the 1893 World's Fair, which also 
introduced the Ferris Wheel. At a later event here, a speaker accused the police of engaging in “Gestapo 
tactics,” leading to an angry outburst from its mayor. Protesters were attacked in Grant Park here during the 
1968 Democratic National Convention. For 10 points, Richard J. Daley was mayor of which city, the 
largest in Illinois? 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
, Illinois 
121-13-90-07132 
2. One of these substances has a second generation in which an n-heterocyclic carbine replaces a 
phosphine; that example is used in metathesis. Their effectiveness is given by the turnover number, and 
they are hindered by poisons. Heterogenous ones have a different phase than the substance they are acting 
upon and commonly use an adsorption-based mechanism. Iron is used as one of these substances in the 
Haber process. For 10 points, name these substances which lower the activation energy of a reaction. 
ANSWER:  
catalyst 
048-13-90-07133 
3. In this novel, the state auditor Byram White is blackmailed. One character in this novel raises concerns 
that bricks used by the J.H. Moore company are defective and becomes a hero after his warnings come to 
fruition in a an accident that kills three schoolchildren. That character in this novel is advised by Sadie 
Burke, and Jack Burden narrates this novel. For 10 points, name this novel by Robert Penn Warren about 
Louisiana politician Willie Stark, a character based on Huey Long. 
ANSWER:  
All the King’s Men 
030-13-90-07134 
4. The completion of this project was celebrated when one of its sponsors poured the contents of a barrel 
off the  
Seneca Chief. 
 Thomas Allen wrote a nostalgic song about this project beginning \"I've got a mule, 
her name is Sal.\" DeWitt Clinton got his state's legislature to fund this project, which was designed with a 
staircase of locks to get over the Niagara Escarpment. For 10 points, name this waterway in upstate New 
York that connected Albany to the Great Lakes area. 
ANSWER:  
Erie Canal 
080-13-90-07135 
5. One can solve a simple harmonic oscillator by setting up an equation where this function is applied twice 
to an object's displacement. This operation can be denoted by placing a dot above a variable. This function 
is applied thrice to position to give the jerk, and when applied to angular momentum it yields the torque. 
This function of velocity gives acceleration, and this function of position is velocity. For 10 points, identify 
this calculus operation often used in physics, the opposite of integration. 
ANSWER: time- 
derivative 
 [or  
differentiating 
 with respect to time; or  
d over d t 
; or obvious equivalents] 
233-13-90-07136 
What object is used by the boys in  
Lord of the Flies 
 in order to create fire? 
ANSWER: Piggy’s  
glasses 
This is a calculation question. What is the surface area of a regular dodecahedron if each face has an area of 
8 square centimeters? 
ANSWER:   square centimeters 
96 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     7     Page  9 of 9 
