National History Bowl 11 
Round 4 
First Quarter 
1. One character in this novel nearly dies in a massacre perpetrated by Reginald Dyer, and this book's 
protagonist eventually becomes engaged to Padma Mangroli. Aadam Aziz is the grandfather of this novel's 
protagonist, whose name is Saleem Sinai. For 10 points, name this novel whose title characters were born 
at the exact moment of India's independence and partition, written by Salman Rushdie. 
ANSWER:  
Midnight's Children 
026-11-31-04101 
2. One member of this family was the only Southern governor to hold a public ceremony mourning the 
death of Martin Luther King, Jr. Another member of this family served as governor during the Attica Prison 
Riots. That member of this family served as Gerald Ford's vice-president and his name is now synonymous 
with \"liberal Republican.\" For 10 points, Winthrop and Nelson are both members of what wealthy political 
dynasty? 
ANSWER:  
Rockefeller 
 [or Winthrop  
Rockefeller 
; or Nelson Aldrich  
Rockefeller 
] 
030-11-31-04102 
3. This country’s government caused a diplomatic crisis by arresting six engineers from the British Vickers 
Corporation and accusing them of “wrecking.” Three years earlier, this country’s leader had written the 
article “Dizzy From Success.” This country was the site an autonomous homeland for Jews in 
Birobodzhan. For 10 points, name this country which, following  
glasnost, 
 broke into fifteen states in 1991. 
ANSWER:  
Soviet Union 
 [or  
Sovetsky Soyuz 
; or  
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
; or  
USSR 
; or  
CCCP 
 ; or  
Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik 
] 
019-11-31-04103 
4. One army in this conflict was derisively named the Watermelon Army. The cause of this conflict was a 
tax supported by Alexander Hamilton, and one central figure in this uprising was John Neville, while 
another was Lighthorse Harry Lee, who had been appointed by George Washington. For 10 points, name 
this early American rebellion that saw a revolt in response to the installation of a tax on the namesake type 
of spirits. 
ANSWER:  
Whiskey 
 Rebellion 
081-11-31-04104 
5. One book published by this man is  
The Curse of Bigness. 
 One doctrine propounded by this man was an 
insistence that factual data should be used as well as legal data in the evaluation of cases. That theory was 
introduced in his namesake \"brief\" to  
Muller v. Oregon. 
 This man was appointed to the Supreme Court by 
Woodrow Wilson. For 10 points, name this first Jewish justice to be named to the Supreme Court. 
ANSWER: Louis  
Brandeis 
081-11-31-04105 
6. This one time leader of the Salo Republic caused King Zog I to utter the words \"Oh God, it was so short\" 
upon that man's fleeing Albanian soil. He promoted agriculture through his \"Battle for Grain\" policy. This 
man lost power following the Second Battle of El Alamein, which loosened the hold on North Africa that 
this man had achieved after his invasion of Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this fascist ruler of Italy. 
ANSWER: Benito  
Mussolini 
081-11-31-04106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. After his time in office, this president was then elected as a member of the House of Represenatives for 
17 years. As Secretary of State, he authored the Monroe Doctrine, and thanks to the support of Henry Clay, 
his presidential election in 1824 was successful, though this was deemed a \"corrupt bargain\" by opponents. 
For 10 points, name this sixth U.S. President. 
ANSWER: John  uincy  
Q Adams 
 [prompt on  
Adams 
; do not accept or prompt on \"John Adams\" by itself] 
088-11-31-04107 
8. One prime minister during this dynasty put forth the New Laws and was named Wang Anshi. This 
dynasty was begun with Emperor Taizu's establishment of dominion over the Sixteen Prefectures. This 
dynasty saw the establishment of a strong central bureaucracy supported by a system of civil service exams. 
For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty that followed the Tang and was succeeded by the Yuan. 
ANSWER:  
Song 
 Dynasty 
081-11-31-04108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 4 
Second Quarter 
1.  
The immediate cause of this conflict may have been due to one side's misunderstanding of 
comments made by April Glaspie. During this conflict, one side initiated the \"great Scud hunt\" as 
part of a strategy for keeping Israel from entering the war. In the aftermath of this conflict, 
UNSCOM was created to ensure that the losing side did not develop (*) 
 weapons of mass destruction. 
The losing side in this conflict promised the \"mother of all battles,\" which Dick Cheney noted turned into 
\"the mother of all retreats.\" For 10 points, Operation Desert Storm was the initial thrust of what campaign 
led by Norman Schwarzkopf to kick Iraqi forces out of Kuwait? 
ANSWER: Persian  
Gulf War 
 [or First  
Gulf War 
; prompt on early Operation  
Desert Storm 
] 
BONUS: Which country singer’s song “I’m Proud to Be an American” became a common patriotic song 
on the radio during the Persian Gulf War? 
ANSWER: Lee  
Greenwood 
003-11-31-04101 
2.  
The Gastein Convention preceded this conflict which included the Second Battle of Langensalza. 
That battle, the Battle of Lissa, was fought during a side phase of this war called the Third War of 
Italian Independence. At another battle in this war, one side’s Dreyse (*) 
 needle guns proved superior 
to the other side’s muzzle loading guns. The battle of Koniggratz was fought during this war which saw the 
formation of the Prussian dominated North German Confederation that would annex the 
Schleswig-Holstein region from Denmark. For 10 points, name this brief 1866 war fought largely between 
Austria and Prussia. 
ANSWER:  
Seven Weeks' 
 War [or  
Austro-Prussian 
 War before Austria is mentioned; prompt on  
German 
War; prompt on  
Unification War 
] 
BONUS: What German state, with capital at Dresden, fought on the side of the Austrians during the war? 
ANSWER:  
Saxony 
064-11-31-04102 
3.  
This man’s political career began after he accompanied his uncle Robert Lansing to the Versailles 
Peace Conference. Later he helped draft the UN charter while working under Arthur Vandenburg. 
This man was the architect behind the treaty establishing SEATO and the Treaty of San Francisco. 
He also advocated intervention to aid the French during the Battle of Dien Bien Phu. This man 
developed the Cold War policy of (*) 
 brinksmanship and was the brother of Allen, the director of the CIA 
throughout most of the 1950’s. For 10 points, name this Secretary of State under Dwight Eisenhower. 
ANSWER: John Foster  
Dulles 
BONUS: Along with Dulles, name BOTH the other two twentieth century Americans for whom major 
airports serving the Washington DC area are named 
ANSWER: Ronald  
Reagan 
 and Thurgood  
Marshall 
064-11-31-04103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
One type of this material is formed by the rapid cooling of austentite and is called martensite. 
Martensite is characteristic of one kind of this material that was made in crucibles by Indians and Sri 
Lankans from the twelfth to nineteenth centuries CE. That type is the Wootz variety of this material. 
A Gilchrist-Thomas converter removes impurities by blowing (*) 
 air during the production of this 
material in an inexpensive process patented in 1855 by Henry Bessemer. For 10 points, name this alloy of 
carbon and iron that made Andrew Carnegie rich. 
ANSWER:  
steel 
BONUS: What city in Mahoning County, Ohio, long a center of steel production, has seen its population 
drop by over 50% from a peak of 170,000 in the 1930’s? 
ANSWER:  
Youngstown 
079-11-31-04104 
5.  
In this work, the author notes that, \"The lawyer's truth is not Truth, but consistency....\" In this 
work, the author describes a cell mate that the author suspects burned a barn after falling asleep 
drunk while smoking a pipe. This work begins with the author advocating the view that, (*) 
\"....government is best which governs not at all,\" and it was originally titled \"Resistance to Civil 
Government.\" It was written after the author spent a night in jail for refusing to pay a poll tax in support of 
the Mexican War. For 10 points, name this work by Henry David Thoreau that advocated the resisting of 
unjust laws. 
ANSWER:  
\"Civil Disobedience\" 
 [accept  
\"Resistance to Civil Government\" 
 before mentioned] 
BONUS: Thoreau and many other Transcendentalists often published in what American magazine that was 
edited by Margaret Fuller. 
ANSWER:  
The Dial 
030-11-31-04105 
6.  
The first artistic depiction of this battle was probably by Philoxenus of Eretria, and a mosaic from 
Pompeii’s House of the Faun probably depicts this battle. The most famous depiction of this battle 
shows Cyprus in the background and a crescent moon in the top left. That painting also shows a 
large mountain, at the foot of which are thousands of soldiers, and a (*) 
 floating tablet with a Latin 
inscription describing this battle. That painting is by Albrecht Altdorfer. For 10 points, name this 333 BCE 
battle in which Alexander the Great defeated Darius III. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Issus 
BONUS: After winning the Battle of Issus, Alexander engaged in a successful months-long siege against 
which Phoenician city on an island? 
ANSWER:  
Tyre 
024-11-31-04106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
The so called Erie War was a successful scheme led by Daniel Drew which caused this man to lose 
millions of dollars. In his early career he was the captain of a steamboat business carrying people 
across the Hudson River; that business competed with a monopoly granted to Robert Livingston and 
Robert Fulton and led to the Supreme Court case  Gibbons. v. Ogden . He transported people across 
the Isthmus of (*) 
 Panama during the California gold rush and later in his life he feuded with James Fisk 
and Jay Gould over competing railways. For 10 points, name this American nicknamed “Commodore”, a 
wealthy transportation magnate of the nineteenth century. 
ANSWER: Cornelius  
Vanderbilt 
BONUS: The reporter Clarence Dresser quoted Vanderbilt as saying what exact four word phrase when the 
reporter challenged him on his unscrupulous business practices? 
ANSWER: “ 
The Public Be Damned 
” 
064-11-31-04107 
8.  
This city is the starting point of the artificial Grand Canal. Rem Koolhaas designed a television 
building in this city, where Shichahai Lake runs past an eighteenth-century mansion built for Prince 
Gong. This city also features Beihai Park and the Old Summer Palace, whose gardens were ravaged 
by British soldiers during the Opium Wars. The Temple of (*) 
 Heaven is found in this city, where, in 
1989, “Tank Man” stood up to the army removing protesters from Tiananmen Square. For 10 points, name 
this city that the Qing Dynasty established as the capital of China. 
ANSWER:  
Beijing 
 [or  
Peking 
] 
BONUS: Give the two word term for the complex of administrative buildings in Beijing that were the seat 
of the Chinese Emperors for 500 years starting in the 1400s. 
ANSWER:  
Forbidden City 
079-11-31-04108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 4 
Third Quarter 
IDI AMIN AND THE SUNSHINE CREW 
Which African strongman... 
A. Changed his country's name to Zaire? 
ANSWER:  
Mobutu 
 Sese Seko Nkuku Ngbendu wa Za Banga [or Joseph Desire  
Mobutu 
] 
B. Confiscated white-owned farms in Zimbabwe? 
ANSWER: Robert  
Mugabe 
C. Enlisted the Janjaweed to help suppress an uprising in Darfur? 
ANSWER: Omar Hassan Ahmad al- 
Bashir 
D. Was allegedly bribed to release Rene Cardona from a jail in Gabon? 
ANSWER: El Hadj Omar  
Bongo 
 Ondimba [or Albert Bernard  
Bongo 
] 
E. Denied eating children while he ruled the Central African Republic? 
ANSWER: Jean-Bedel  
Bokassa 
 [or Emperor  
Bokassa 
 I; or Salah Eddine Ahmed  
Bokassa 
] 
F. Allegedly named his country \"Malawi\" because he liked the sound of it? 
ANSWER: Hastings Kamuzu  
Banda 
G. Was the target of a coup attempt partially financed by Mark Thatcher? 
ANSWER: Teodoro  
Obiang 
 Nguema Macias 
H. Defeated Jonas Savimbi in a 1992 election, upon which UNITA went back to fighting him? 
ANSWER: Jose Eduardo  
dos Santos 
003-11-31-0410-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
REVOLUTION 
Which color or flower provided the nickname for the revolution that… 
A. Describes the massive increase in harvest yields since 1950? 
ANSWER:  
green 
 [or  
Green 
 Revolution] 
B. Brought Victor Yushchenko to power in Ukraine in 2004? 
ANSWER:  
orange 
 [or  
Orange 
 Revolution] 
C. Overthrew the Estado Novo in Portugal? 
ANSWER:  
carnation 
 [or  
Carnation 
 Revolution] 
D. Overthrew Communist leadership in Czechoslovakia? 
ANSWER:  
velvet 
 [or  
Velvet 
 Revolution] 
E. Occurred in Tunisia in 2011? 
ANSWER:  
jasmine 
 [or  
Jasmine 
 Revolution] 
F. Brought Mikhail Saakashvili to power in Georgia? 
ANSWER:  
rose 
 [or  
Rose 
 Revolution] 
G. Followed disputed 2005 parliamentary elections in Kyrgyzstan? 
ANSWER:  
tulip 
 [or  
pink 
; or  
Tulip 
 Revolution; or  
Pink 
 Revolution] 
H. Broke the power of Iran's \"Thousand Families\"? 
ANSWER:  
white 
 [or  
White 
 Revolution] 
003-11-31-0410-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 
In what city was Dr. Martin Luther King when he… 
A. Gave the “I Have a Dream” speech in front of the Lincoln Memorial? 
ANSWER:  
Washington 
, D.C. 
B. Organized a bus boycott in Alabama after the Rosa Parks incident? 
ANSWER:  
Montgomery 
, Alabama 
C. Started a march to Montgomery in 1965 with SNCC (“SNICK”)? 
ANSWER:  
Selma 
, Alabama 
D. Was assassinated by James Earl Ray at the Lorraine Motel? 
ANSWER:  
Memphis 
, Tennessee 
E. Wrote a letter while in jail for leading a nonviolent protest called Project C? 
ANSWER:  
Birmingham 
, Alabama 
F. Wrote a letter to a rabbi while in jail in Florida, leading to a mass arrest of rabbis? 
ANSWER:  
St. Augustine 
, Florida 
G. Was released from prison by Chief Laurie Pritchett to discourage the violent protests in this Georgia 
city? 
ANSWER:  
Albany 
, Georgia 
H. Gave the “Beyond Vietnam” speech at Riverside Church? 
ANSWER:  
New York 
 City, New York 
079-11-31-0410-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 4 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
His painting that features an old man looking into the eyes of a warrior on a horse is entitled  Entry 
of the Crusaders into Constantinopole . He also painted a nude woman hiding underneath a cloth in  
Louis of Orléans Unveiling His Mistress . This artist also painted a woman kneeling on rubble with a 
partially bared chest (+)  in  Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi , and created a depiction of concubines 
being murdered while the titular Assyrian king lays watching on a bed. This artist of  Death of 
Sardanapulus  also painted a horse rearing over the heads of dying Greeks in his work (*) 
Massacre at 
Chios 
, and he is most famous for a scene in which a topless woman stands at the top of a hill and waves a 
flag. For 10 points, name this artist of  
Liberty Leading the People 
. 
ANSWER: Eugene  
Delacroix 
095-11-31-04101 
2.  
After being found working at the Sloane Maternity Hospital under an assumed name, this person 
was returned to North Brother Island and remained there until her 1938 death. She first drew 
authorities' attention after the (+)  deaths of six members of the Warren family, and was finally 
tracked down by George Soper. In 1909 the New York Supreme Court denied her a writ of habeas 
corpus, but she was released the next year on the stipulation that she would not (*) 
 cook. She was the 
first confirmation of Robert Koch's theory that a person could be infected with a bacterial disease but not 
appear sick. For 10 points, name this Irish immigrant who transmitted that disease to as many as 
forty-seven New Yorkers in the early twentieth century. 
ANSWER:  
Typhoid Mary 
 [or Mary  
Mallon 
] 
003-11-31-04102 
3.  
One novel by this author features the twins Luigi and Angello Capelo, who were originally 
designed to be conjoined. That novel by this author centers on Roxy's switch of her son, Valet de 
Chambers, with (+)  Tom Driscoll, when the two were infants and features a title character who is a 
lawyer and a fingerprint enthusiast. Another switch between two people occurs between Tom Canty 
and Edward VI his (*) 
The Prince and the Pauper 
. For 10 points, name this American author better 
known for creating such characters as Becky Thatcher and Tom Sawyer. 
ANSWER: Mark  
Twain 
 [or Samuel Langhorn  
Clemens 
] 
040-11-31-04103 
4.  
Prior to this war, one side was engaged in the Uskok War, while the Treaty of Lubeck ended 
Danish involvement in this war. The (+)  Bohemian Stage of this war was sparked by the Second 
Defenestration of Prague. In one battle, Swedish troops were rallied under Bernhard of 
Saxe-Weimar after a previous leader was killed, and that battle saw the defeat of the Catholics under 
(*) 
 Wallenstein despite the death of Gustavus Adolphus, and was the Battle of Lutzen. The treaty that 
ended this war assured the recognition of the Peace of Augsburg. For 10 points, name this European 
religious war that was ended by the Peace of Westphalia. 
ANSWER:  
Thirty Years' War 
081-11-31-04104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
Associate Justice Philip Pendleton Barbour died in the midst of this case’s proceedings. One result 
of this case is that Lieutenant Gedney of the USS  Washington  was awarded salvage rights. The 
majority opinion in this case was written by Joseph (+)  Story and discarded Attorney General Henry 
D. Gilpin’s application of the Adams-Onis Treaty and Pinckney’s Treaty, siding with Roger 
Sherman Baldwin and John Quincy Adams’ arguments that the subjects of this case were not 
considered property under (*) 
 Spanish law. For 10 points, name this Taney court decision which ruled on 
the freedom of slave mutineers. 
ANSWER:  
United States v. Libellants and Claimants of the Schooner  Amistad 
015-11-31-04105 
6.  
This man routinely wrote a regular column in the  Granma  newspaper. Faith Morgan directed a 
documentary about how this man’s government “Survived Peak Oil” by pursuing sustainable 
practices during its “Special Period in Time of Peace.” He called for a return to the (+)  “Constitution 
of the Republic” in a lengthy pamphlet written while in Model Prison titled “History Will Absolve 
Me”. This man sent armies to support the MPLA in Angola, and was a member of the 26th of July 
Movement. He led a revolution against a man who had himself overthrown President Carlos Prio 
Socarras and canceled elections; that predecessor was (*) 
 Fulgencio Batista. For 10 points, name this 
first Communist leader of Cuba. 
ANSWER: Fidel  
Castro 
 Ruz 
094-11-31-04106 
7.  
One leader of this organization claimed that eating pork was counter-revolutionary in the essay 
“Soul Food” in his collection  Soul on Ice , and another member of this group, Fred Hampton, was 
controversially shot and killed in bed by (+)  Chicago police. Tom Wolfe coined the term “radical 
chic” when describing a ritzy fundraiser held by Leonard Bernstein to raise funds for the criminal 
defense of members of this organization. The symbol for this party was taken from the emblem of the 
Lowndes County Freedom Organization. One member of this organization is sometimes listed as the 
eighth member of the (*) 
 Chicago Seven, and this organization notably offered a free breakfast program to 
Oakland schoolchildren. For 10 points, name this radical organization that advocated “black power” that 
was led by Eldridge Cleaver, Huey Newton, and Bobby Seale. 
ANSWER:  
Black Panther 
 Party 
030-11-31-04107 
8.  
This man was involved in a possible attempted kidnapping in which Alexander and John Ruthven 
were killed in this man’s presence at Gowrie House. This man’s rule of one realm was aided by a 
group known as the Octavians. This man refused to limit his spending by rejecting (+)  Robert Cecil’s 
Great Contract, and he banned bowling and bear-baiting on Sundays in his  Book of Sports . He 
published the anti-smoking tract  Counterblast to Tobacco , and he advocated divine right in his  The 
True Law of Free Monarchy. . Robert Catesby, Thomas Percy, and (*) 
 Guy Fawkes were among the 
Catholics who attempted to kill this man in the Gunpowder Plot, and this king was the son of Mary, Queen 
of Scots. For 10 points, name this king of England, the first of the Stuart line. 
ANSWER:  
James I 
 [or  
James VI of Scotland 
] 
030-11-31-04108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 4     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
