2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 8 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This event happens immediately after one man realizes his brother, Deiphobus, was not actually there but 
was merely the disguised Athena. During this event, the target notes “My doom has come upon me…but let 
me first do some great thing” after he misses his enemy with his spear. It happens out of revenge for the 
death of Patroclus, and the victim’s body is dragged around by a chariot, saddening his wife, Andromache 
and his father, King Priam, who pays a ransom. For 10 points, name this event from the  
Iliad 
 when a heroic 
Trojan prince is slain by the nearly invulnerable Achilles. 
ANSWER:  
death of Hector 
 [or answers like the  
Hector-Achilles 
 fight] 
052-13-90-08101 
2. This man wrote a poem about a boy who sleeps in soot and was sold by his father into sweeping 
chimneys. Another poem by this writer describes an animal that has \"clothing of delight\" and is asked \"who 
made thee?\" This poet wrote about a creature \"burning bright in the forests of the night\" in a poem that asks 
\"what immortal hand or eye could frame thy fearful symmetry?\" For 10 points, name this English Romantic 
poet of  
Songs of Innocence and Experience 
, which contains his poems \"The Lamb\" and \"The Tyger.\" 
ANSWER: William  
Blake 
023-13-90-08102 
3. This body of water’s largest island was once ruled by Mormon dissident James Strang and is called 
Beaver Island. People cross this lake by boarding a ferry at Ludington called the SS  
Badger. 
 It has the site 
of the Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore, which references a Chippewa myth. The Straits of 
Mackinac separate it from Lake Huron. For 10 points, name this only Great Lake entirely within the United 
States, the lake which Chicago rests upon. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Michigan 
052-13-90-08103 
4. In  
Paramecium, 
 two of these organelles are located at either end of the cell, help it maintain its 
hypertonicity, and are known as the \"contractile\" type. This organelle's membrane is called the tonoplast. In 
plants, one type of these organelles contains \"cell sap\" and pushes the plasma membrane against the cell 
wall when turgor pressure is high. That is the \"central\" type of these organelles, which are vesicles. For 10 
points, identify this organelle that stores water. 
ANSWER:  
vacuole 
s 
066-13-90-08104 
5. This author of the book  
Six Crises 
 defeated Helen Gahagan Douglas in a Senate campaign in which he 
referred to her as the “Pink Lady.” His political career was briefly derailed after he lost a 1962 
gubernatorial election to Pat Brown. This man was attacked by demonstrators while visiting Caracas, 
Venezuela, and he gave the “Checkers Speech” and engaged in the Kitchen Debate with Nikita Krushchev. 
For 10 points, name this President who was forced to resign due to the Watergate scandal. 
ANSWER: Richard  
Nixon 
030-13-90-08105 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  1 of 9 
6. Epsom salts contain magnesium bound to this anion. Anhydrites such as gypsum are comprised of the 
calcium type of these salts. Along with water, a compound where lead is bound to this anion is created in a 
lead-acid battery. Vitriol salts contain this compound. It is formed after the complete dissociation of 
sulfuric acid. For 10 points, name this anion with a two minus charge, which consists of a sulfur atom 
bound to four oxygen atoms. 
ANSWER:  
sulfate 
 [do not accept \"bisulfate\"; do not accept \"sulfite\"] 
140-13-90-08106 
7. A character in this story is worried after he loses the Sunday saddle of Hans Van Ripper while riding the 
horse Gunpowder. This story features a competition for the hand of Katrina Van Tassel that includes 
Abraham Van Brunt, who goes by the nickname Brom Bones. The main character of this story is a 
Connecticut schoolmaster who is scared by the story of a Hessian ghost. For 10 points, name this story 
about Ichabod Crane and the Headless Horseman written by Washington Irving. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Legend of Sleepy Hollow 
\" 
023-13-90-08107 
8. The Tenterfield speech was given by a politician from this country, Henry Parkes, who is considered the 
father of its federation. Peter Lalor led a revolt in Ballarat in this country. An outlaw here who wore a full 
suit of armor was the bushranger Ned Kelly. Gold miners led the Eureka rebellion in this country. An 
island here was once named for Van Diemen, and was explored by Abel Tasman. For 10 points, name this 
country which developed from the colony of New South Wales. 
ANSWER:  
Australia 
232-13-90-08108 
9. This country was the home of a poet who wrote a work about a soul being unchained from the body 
during the night in  
First Dream 
. Another author from this country renewed interest in Sor Juana Ines de la 
Cruz with his  
The Traps of Faith 
 and wrote an essay about about this country entitled  
The Labryinth of 
Solitude 
. One author from this country wrote  
The Old Gringo 
, a fictionalized account of Ambrose Bierce’s 
trip to this country with the army of Pancho Villa. For 10 points, name this home country of Carlos Fuentes 
and Octavio Paz. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
030-13-90-08109 
10. This man wrote \"I do not hope to turn again” in a poem about his conversion to Anglicanism, 
\"Ash-Wednesday.\" The speaker of a poem by this man compares the evening to a “patient etherized upon a 
table,” and that poem contains the refrain, “In the room the women come and go, talking of Michelangelo.” 
He wrote a seminal 1922 poem beginning, \"April is the cruelest month.\" For 10 points, name this poet of 
\"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\" and \"The Waste Land.\" 
ANSWER: T. S.  
Eliot 
121-13-90-08110 
11. This man was ransomed for 150,000 marks after being imprisoned in Duke Leopold’s castle Durnstein, 
and he died of wounds while beseiging the castle of Chalus. Guy de Lusignan ceded the title of King of 
Jerusalem to this man. He made a truce with Saladin that gave Christian pilgrims free access to holy places 
in the Third Crusade, and he was the son of Eleanor of Aquitaine. For 10 points, name this son of Henry II 
and brother of King John who was known as the “Lion Hearted.” 
ANSWER:  
Richard I 
 [or  
Richard the Lion Heart 
ed before mentioned; of  
Richard Coeur de Lion 
 before 
“Lionheart”] 
030-13-90-08111 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  2 of 9 
12. One law of this type is put into use by ice skaters who draw in or extend their arms while spinning. A 
law of this type can be applied by itself in cases of elastic collisions, but must be considered with another 
law of this type in inelastic collisions. All laws of this type are exact for an isolated system. For 10 points, 
name this type of law that applies to angular momentum, momentum, and energy, the last of which is often 
stated as the fact that energy cannot be created or destroyed. 
ANSWER:  
conservation 
 laws [accept word forms; or  
conservation 
 of angular momentum; or  
conservation 
 of momentum; or  
conservation 
 of energy] 
023-13-90-08112 
13. One of this composer's operas features the duet \"Pa--, pa--, pa--\", which is sung after a trio of spirits 
help bring a woman to the suicidal birdcatcher Papageno. This man composed the aria \"Der Hölle Rache 
kocht in meinem Herzen\", which is sung by the Queen of the Night in an opera in which Tamino woos 
Pamina using the title enchanted instrument. For 10 points, name this Austrian child prodigy, the composer 
of  
The Magic Flute 
 and such non-operatic works as  
Eine Kleine Nachtmusik 
. 
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
 [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus  
Mozart 
] 
029-13-90-08113 
14. This man drew on the experiences of people such as Max Wertheimer, Albert Einstein, and Eleanor 
Roosevelt to formulate part of his most famous idea, which he put forth in tracts like  
Toward a Psychology 
of Being 
 and  
A Theory of Human Motivation 
. This man thought \"peak experiences\" were representative of a 
state achieved by only 1% of all people, self-actualization. For 10 points, identify this psychologist who 
formulated the hierarchy of needs. 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Maslow 
233-13-90-08114 
15. At a trial in this novel, its antagonist is called a \"goblin-monk.\" It begins at the Festival of Fools, where 
Pierre Gringoire is trying to promote his play. Phoebus leads the King's Archers in this novel, in which 
Claude Frollo is killed by the title character after he expresses joy at Esmeralda's death. For 10 points, 
name this novel by Victor Hugo about a deformed man who serves as bell-ringer in a Parisian cathedral. 
ANSWER: The  
Hunchback of Notre-Dame 
 [or  
Notre-Dame de Paris 
] 
192-13-90-08115 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 8 
Directed Round 
1A.  What singer was the front man of the British rock band Queen until his death in 1991? 
ANSWER: Freddie  
Mercury 
 [or Farrokh  
Bulsara 
] 
1B.  O.J. Simpson plays Officer Nordberg in what series of Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker films based on 
the short-lived comedy  
Police Squad!? 
ANSWER:  
Naked Gun 
2A.  For his trickery, Loki was punished by being bound to a rock while snake venom is dripped on him; 
that venom is caught by what wife of his? 
ANSWER:  
Sigyn 
2B.  What guardian of the Davies boys was inspired by them to write novels like  
The Little White Bird 
 and  
Peter Pan 
? 
ANSWER: James Matthew  
Barrie 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the dot product of the vectors (1, 2, 3) and (5, 0, -2)? 
ANSWER:  
-1 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If you roll two six-sided dice, what is the probability that 
their sum is greater than 9? 
ANSWER:  
6/36 
 [or  
1/6 
] 
4A.  Identify the neighbor of Somalia that has sent troops over the border several times since 2006, under 
the leadership of premier Meles Zenawi. 
ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of  
Ethiopia 
 [or  
Ityop'iya 
 Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik] 
4B.  What substance with formula CHCl3 was once widely used as an anesthetic? 
ANSWER:  
chloroform 
5A.  Name the center for the 2013-14 Cleveland Cavaliers, who became the youngest person to play in an 
NBA game in 2005, the first of his seven seasons with the Lakers. 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Bynum 
5B.  Hippasus was supposedly killed by the followers of Pythagoras for discovering that the square root of 
two was what type of number? 
ANSWER:  
irrational 
 number 
6A.  What chemist worked alongside the inventor of the Bunsen burner and lends his name to junction and 
loop laws for circuits? 
ANSWER: Gustav  
Kirchhoff 
6B.  What Roman Catholic belief holds that the subtance of the bread and wine in the Eucharist becomes 
Christ’s Real Presence? 
ANSWER:  
transubstantiation 
7A.  The Kepler mission was designed to detect what type of bodies, which orbit stars other than our own? 
ANSWER:  
exoplanet 
s [or  
extrasolar planet 
s; prompt on obvious equivalents, such as  
planet 
s orbiting a 
star that is not the Sun] 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  What set of layers of plasma located just outside the atmosphere was discovered by Explorer 1 and 
named after an American physicist? 
ANSWER:  
Van Allen 
 radiation belts 
8A.  Name the world leader who defied the League of Nations by ordering the occupation of the Greek 
island of Corfu, and later by invading Abyssinia. 
ANSWER: Benito  
Mussolini 
 [or Benito Amilcare Andrea  
Mussolini 
] 
8B.  Brahms wrote a B minor quintet for what solo single reed woodwind instrument, which has a 
cylindrical bore and three main registers? 
ANSWER:  
clarinet 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Convert the equation \"2x + 3y = 18\" into slope-intercept 
form. 
ANSWER:  
y = -2/3 x + 6 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the length of the  
longest 
 diagonal of a regular 
hexagon with area six times radical three square inches? 
ANSWER:   inches 
4 
10A.  What Yale professor and literary critic wrote  
The Anxiety of Influence 
 and  
The Western Canon 
? 
ANSWER: Harold  
Bloom 
10B.  What French-Romanian sculptor created  
Bird in Space 
 and  
The Endless Column 
? 
ANSWER: Constantin  
Brancusi 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 8 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In one story by this author, the title character is tricked into thinking his garments are invisible until a 
boy notes that he is wearing nothing. In another story by this author of “The Emperor’s New Clothes,” a 
girl sees a vision of her grandmother as she ascends into heaven. This author wrote a story in which a 
prince is saved from a shipwreck by a creature that tries to obtain a human soul. For 10 points, name this 
author of fairy tales, such as “The Little Match Girl” and “The Little Mermaid.” 
ANSWER: Hans Christian  
Andersen 
140-13-90-08117 
2. This war was the subject of the Frank Capra-directed  
Why We Fight 
 series of films. During it, African 
American leaders promoted the “Double V” campaign. A poster in this war showed a person flexing a 
muscle while shouting “We Can Do It!” That image during this conflict was of a bandana-wearing female 
worker called “Rosie the Riveter.” For 10 points, name this war which resulted in the internment of many 
Japanese-Americans in the 1940’s. 
ANSWER:  
World War II 
 [or  
Second World War 
] 
052-13-90-08118 
3. This process is regulated by caspases, which can be induced by the Fas ligand and cytochrome c. Unlike 
similar processes, the cell membrane is not ruptured during it, instead forming bulges known as blebs. p53 
will activate this process if damage to DNA cannot be fixed. Cancer can occur if this process does not 
happen often enough. Unlike necrosis, it is regulated by the cell. For 10 points, name this process of 
programmed cell death. 
ANSWER:  
apoptosis 
140-13-90-08119 
4. This author wrote a play that ends with the revelation that Larry killed himself because of a crime that 
Steve Deever was imprisoned for. In another play of his, Eddie betrays Rodolpho and Marco to 
immigration police. This author of  
A View from the Bridge 
 and  
All My Sons 
 wrote a play in which Giles 
Corey is crushed to death with stones and John Proctor refuses to confess to witchcraft. For 10 points, name 
this playwright of  
The Crucible. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Miller 
232-13-90-08120 
5. John Greenleaf Whittier wrote a poem lamenting this man’s support for the compromise of 1850, called 
“Ichabod.” This man argued the cases of  
Darmouth v. Woodward 
 and  
McCulloch v. Maryland 
 before the 
Supreme Court, and he is known for a debate in which he said, “Liberty and Union, now and forever, one 
and inseparable.” For 10 points, name this New Hampshire politician who had a famous debate with South 
Carolina’s Robert Hayne over the issue of nullification. 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Webster 
030-13-90-08121 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  6 of 9 
6. The human exploitation of these structures can create a \"cone of depression\". These structures can be 
classified as perched or confined depending on whether a layer of clay is above or below them. Permeable 
areas create a recharge zone for these structures, which can suffer from saltwater intrusion. Although it is 
not a well, when their contents are under pressure, they can be classified as artesian. For 10 points, identify 
underground reservoirs of water that include the Ogallala. 
ANSWER:  
aquifer 
s [prompt on  
well 
 until it is read] 
066-13-90-08122 
7. Erroneously attempting to access this thing can cause a segmentation fault. Garbage collection is an 
automatic way to manage this thing. In C, malloc is used to dynamically allocate this thing. Paging is one 
way to increase the capacity of this thing. Pointers point to an address in this thing, which has a contiguous 
area taken up by arrays. For 10 points, identify this term for computer storage that includes types like 
read-only and random-access. 
ANSWER: computer  
memory 
 [prompt on computer  
storage 
 until it is read] 
066-13-90-08123 
8. In 1945, this man was sent on an unsuccessful mission to broker a truce between the Chinese 
Nationalists and Communists at Yen-an. Winston Churchill called him the “organizer of victory” for his 
success at mobilizing the U.S. military, and the Point Four Program was a successor to an aid program he 
proposed in a speech at Harvard. For 10 points, name this U.S. Army chief of staff during World War II 
who as secretary of state proposed the plan for the European Recovery Program that bore his name. 
ANSWER: George Catlett  
Marshall 
030-13-90-08124 
9. Along with the kidneys, this organ is capable of synthesizing angiotensin-converting enzyme. Beta2 
agonists are mainly used to treat a disease of this organ. This organ is located in the pleural space. These 
two organs are connected to the trachea, which splits into many bronchi. These organs contain many 
alveoli, and are permanently damaged in emphysema. For 10 points, pneumonia and asthma affect what 
two organs, the largest of the respiratory system? 
ANSWER:  
lung 
s 
140-13-90-08125 
10. During a critical step in this process, chiasmata form during synapsis. According to alternation of 
generations, sporophytes produce spores via this process, which introduces genetic variation with 
chromosomal crossover. It reduces the chromosomal count from 2N to N by producing haploid cells. For 
10 points, name this method of producing gametes, a form of cell division contrasted with mitosis. 
ANSWER:  
meiosis 
 [or  
prophase 
 I; or  
meiosis 
 I] 
190-13-90-08126 
11. The building at 30 St Mary Axe in this city was designed by Norman Foster and is nicknamed “the 
Gherkin.” Most of its financial firms are in a central square mile area called simply “the City.” Augustus 
Pugin designed a neo-Gothic government building here, the Palace of Westminster, which lies on the banks 
of the Thames and contains the clock tower nicknamed Big Ben. For 10 points, name this capital of the 
United Kingdom. 
ANSWER:  
London 
, United Kingdom [or  
London 
, England] 
121-13-90-08127 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  7 of 9 
12. The speaker of one of this man's poems declares \"let the boys bring flowers in last month's 
newspapers.\" He described a \"slovenly wilderness\" in Tennessee in \"Anecdote of the Jar\" and addressed 
Ramon Fernandez in a poem beginning, \"She sang beyond the genius of the sea.\" The title character of 
another of his poems is called \"the roller of big cigars.\" For 10 points, name this 20th century American 
poet of \"The Idea of Order at Key West\" and \"The Emperor of Ice Cream.\" 
ANSWER: Wallace  
Stevens 
192-13-90-08128 
13. A third-party candidate running for one of this city's offices is Kristin Davis, who previously worked as 
a madam for an escort service. Scott Stringer is the Democratic candidate for comptroller here, having 
defeated a former governor and client of Davis. Bill de Blasio won its Democratic primary for mayor in 
September 2013 after campaigning against the current mayor and the city's police “stop-and-frisk” policy. 
For 10 points, name this city where Michael Bloomberg is currently mayor. 
ANSWER:  
New York 
 City 
121-13-90-08129 
14. ?In the first person singular form of this tense, verbs that end in \"z-a-r\" change to \"c-a-r\" and verbs that 
end in \"g-a-r\" change to \"g-u-a-r.\" In this tense, the irregular verb \"dar\" takes the forms \"di,\" \"diste\" \"dio,\" 
\"dimos,\" \"disteis,\" and \"dieron,\" which is similar to the regular pattern for \"e-r\" and \"i-r\" verbs in this tense. 
For 10 points, identify this Spanish verb tense, which expresses completed actions that took place in the 
past, unlike the other available past tense, the imperfect. 
ANSWER: Spanish  
preterite 
 tense [or el  
pretérito 
; do not accept or prompt on \"past\"] 
019-13-90-08130 
15. This artist depicted Benjamin Franklin holding a key in his hand while a group of boys fly a kite in a 
stormy background. This artist painted many portraits of his patron, King George III, and he served as the 
second president of the Royal Academy. Another depiction by this man shows a Native American soldier 
kneeling near a dying British commander during the Battle of Quebec. For 10 points, name this American 
painter of  
The Death of General Wolfe. 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
West 
227-13-90-08131 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 8 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This character is introduced as having fought like “Bellona’s bridegroom” by a wounded soldier. He 
stated that his wife “should have died hereafter” shortly before his last battle. He orders the assassination of 
Fleance and Banquo, to try and prevent a prophecy of the Three Witches from coming true. This former 
Thane of Glamis is killed by MacDuff. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean ruler who killed King 
Duncan to rule over Scotland. 
ANSWER:  
Macbeth 
153-13-90-08132 
2. This man's wife was attacked for being duped by con artists that tricked Cardinal Rohan into buying a 
very expensive necklace. His finance minister published a financial report which did not mention the very 
high cost of his country's involvement in the American Revolution. When this man died, he was officially 
called “Citizen Capet” by the revolutionary government. For 10 points, name this French king executed 
alongisde his wife Marie Antoinette. 
ANSWER:  
Louis XVI 
 [prompt on  
Louis 
] 
121-13-90-08133 
3. This compound reacts with aromatic amino acids to induce a color change in the xantoproteic protein 
test, and one \"red fuming\" mixture containing it is used as a rocket fuel. This compound is produced in an 
oxidation reaction catalyzed by platinum and rhodium in the Ostwald reaction, and this compound reacts 
with its precursor, ammonia, to form part of the ANFO explosive. With HCl, this compound forms a 
solution that can dissolve noble metals like gold, aqua regia. For 10 points, identify this acid with formula 
HNO . 
3 
ANSWER:  
nitric acid 
 [or  
HNO 
3 
 until it is read] 
234-13-90-08134 
4. The momentum change of these particles gives rise to radiation pressure. Pair production is triggered by 
one of them hitting a nucleus. This particle is inelastically scattered by the Compton effect. The formula h 
times c over lambda gives the energy of this particle, which Max Planck determined was quantized. For 10 
points, name these particles that are the carriers of the electromagnetic force and the quanta of light. 
ANSWER:  
photon 
020-13-90-08135 
5. This structure's Raine Island is the world's largest breeding site of green sea turtles. This location 
features a dive site called Cod Hole as part of Lizard Island. Half of this location has been lost over the last 
thirty years, in part because of the presence of the crown-of-thorns starfish. This site is located along the 
coast of Queensland in the Coral Sea. For 10 points, name this natural feature located northeast of Australia 
that is the world's largest coral reef system. 
ANSWER:  
Great Barrier Reef 
023-13-90-08136 
A set of three integers, a, b and c, that satisfies the property a squared plus b squared equals c squared is 
known by what name? 
ANSWER:  
Pythagorean 
 triple 
This is a calculation question. If you randomly select two integers, with replacement, between 1 and 10, 
inclusive, what is the probability that their product is greater than their sum? 
ANSWER:  
4/5 
 [or  
80/100 
; or obvious equivalents] 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     8     Page  9 of 9 
