NASAT 2011 
Round 17 
Tossups 
1. The protagonist of this work throws several documents off a cliff in the town of Shamlegh. The hero’s 
father was a member of a military unit called the Mavericks. Early in this work, the protagonist travels with 
a man searching for the River of the Arrow, while a jeweler named Lurgan Sahib trains the protagonist in 
espionage. The hero of this work correctly gives a fake “prophecy” after he overhears that some eight 
thousand soldiers will soon be dispatched; he gained that information by transmitting a message to the 
British from a horse trader named Mahbub Ali. Characters in this work include a Lama from Tibet. Set 
during the Great Game between England and Russia, for 10 points, name this Rudyard Kipling novel. 
ANSWER:  
Kim 
094-11-30-17102 
2. In one isothermal version of this technique for protein ligand studies in a calorimeter, a binding 
polynomial is used to analyze the data. Before fluorescence-activated cell sorting, a version of this 
technique using serial dilution is performed using the antibody of interest. This technique produces a curve 
with inflection points for each dissociation equilibrium, which is why polyprotic samples have multiple 
bumps on said curve. Samples are placed in burets for this procedure, and an indicator like phenolphthalein 
is used to determine when the equivalence point has been reached. For 10 points, name this chemical 
procedure which is used to find the concentration of an acid or base in a sample. 
ANSWER:  
titration 
048-11-30-17103 
3. This artist designed a giant ice-skating rink called  
Ecliptic 
 for Rosa Parks Circle, and approached a 
similar theme in a giant piece of frosted glass in Penn Station called  
Eclipsed Time  
. For Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, this artist designed a series of grassy knolls that form a hilly structure for a work titled  
The Wave 
Field 
. Frieda Lee Mock directed a movie about this artist called  
A Strong Clear Vision. 
 An addendum by 
Glenna Goodacre and Frederick Hart's  
Three Soldiers 
 statue were added to this artist's most notable work, 
which was in part made with two large pieces of gabbro rock. That work is inscribed with all the casualties 
of a certain war. For 10 points, name this Chinese-American artist behind the Vietnam Memorial. 
ANSWER: Maya  
Lin 
033-11-30-17104 
4. One social group originating in this country's culture is the  
burrnesha, 
 or \"sworn virgins,\" women who 
live their entire lives as men. Its Malesia e Madhe district is a center of the  
gjakmarrja, 
 a blood feud that 
exacts honor under the code of  
Kanun. 
 The Shkodra area is another center of ritualized violence in this 
country, whose economy collapsed in 1997 as the result of a pyramid scheme. Its largest port was renamed 
Durazzo during a World War II occupation by Italy. For 10 points, name this eastern Balkan state, which is 
found on the western borders of Macedonia and Greece. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Albania 
 [or Republika e  
Shqipërisë 
] 
019-11-30-17105 
5. John Milton's  
Areopagitica 
 claims that this author is a better teacher than Duns Scotus or Aquinas. This 
author imitated Virgil's  
Eclogues 
 in a series of pastoral poems about Colin Clout. He celebrated the 
marriage of the daughters of the Earl of Worcester by writing a poem that repeats the line \"Sweet Thames, 
run softly, till I end my song,\" this author's \"Prothalamion.\" He represented the Catholic Church as Duessa, 
the evil antagonist of Una, in an epic poem about the court of Gloriana. For 10 points, name this 
Elizabethan poet of  
The Shepherd's Calendar 
 and  
The Faerie Queene 
. 
ANSWER: Edmund  
Spenser 
004-11-30-17106 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. A flag with a star cut out of the middle became a symbol of one side in this conflict. Though initially 
peaceful, violence broke out after the AVH shot a crowd of protesters outside a radio station. After it was 
put down, political leaders associated with it took refuge in the Yugoslavian Embassy and the two countries 
involved played a contentious water polo match at the Summer Olympics. Andras Hegedus was replaced 
by Imre Nagy, who promised to establish a multi-party system and declare neutrality. Its aftermath saw 
Janos Kadar appointed to the position of Prime Minister. For 10 points, name this rebellion which was put 
down when Soviet tanks entered a Central European state in 1956. 
ANSWER:  
Hungarian 
 Revolution [or equivalent such as Soviet invasion of  
Hungary 
, etc] 
100-11-30-17107 
7. This artist painted two round impressions in the wall behind him in  
Self Portrait with Two Circles 
. He 
painted Jesus, the twelve disciples, and one other man having their small boat rocked by a large wave in his 
The Storm on the Sea of Galilee 
. He painted a philosopher with his hand resting on a statue in  
Aristotle 
Contemplating the Bust of Homer 
. The title character of another of his paintings holds up the skinless arm 
of a corpse. This artist painted a drummer and a girl holding a chicken in his depiction of Frans Banning 
Cocq’s militia. For 10 points, name this Dutch painter of  
The Anatomy Lesson 
 and  
Night Watch 
. 
ANSWER:  
Rembrandt 
 Harmenszoon van Rijn 
015-11-30-17108 
8. This country declared independence at the Congress of Tucuman, which followed the May Revolution 
and the establishment of a Primera Junta ruling in the name of Ferdinand VII. One ruler of it received the 
sum of public powers, thereby destroying the separation of powers. That man lost power after the Battle of 
Caseros and also fought an Anglo-French blockade. The slogan “Shoes? Yes! Books? No!” exemplified 
one modern day ruler of this country’s dislike of universities. That dictator also had supporters known as 
the descamisados, or shirtless ones. For 10 points, name this South American country ruled by Juan Manuel 
de Rosas and Juan Peron. 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
 [or  
Argentine 
 Republic; or Republica  
Argentina 
] 
107-11-30-17109 
9. This man based one of his arguments on the premise that a horse is better than wood and wood is better 
than a horse. He committed one of his works to parchment after the wax tablets they were written on were 
repeatedly destroyed. This man’s motto was “faith seeking understanding,” and the monk Gaunilo in the 
treatise “Reply on Behalf of the Fool” attacked one of this man’s tenets with the Lost Island argument. His 
most famous argument attempted to define \"that which nothing greater than can be conceived.\" He used 
this argument, which was advanced in the  
Monologion 
 and  
Proslogion 
, in an attempt to prove the existence 
of God. For 10 points, name this Archbishop of Canterbury famed for his ontological argument. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Anselm 
 of Canterbury 
015-11-30-17110 
10. One particular complication of this disease results from parvovirus B19 infection of bone marrow, 
which causes aplasia, and patients with this disease often have osteomyelitis caused by Salmonella. Patients 
with this disease have an increased risk of overwhelming sepsis from encapsulated organisms because they 
often auto-splenectomize, and this disease is diagnosed by gel electrophoresis of the affected protein. Acute 
chest crises and vaso-occlusive crises are painful manifestations of this disease, which is caused by a 
glutamic acid to valine mutation in the beta chain of a certain protein. It is believed to confer a 
heterozygote advantage against malaria. For 10 points, name this disease common in African Americans 
which causes red blood cells to assume a crescent-like shape. 
ANSWER:  
sickle-cell 
 anemia 
048-11-30-17111 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. One character in this story has eyes \"like two small pieces of coal pressed into a lump of dough\" 
because \"what would have been merely plumpness in another was obesity in her.\" The Board of Aldermen's 
attempts to make one character pay taxes fail when she repeatedly refuses, claiming she received a lifetime 
exemption from the previous mayor. Men sneak onto the title character's property at midnight to sprinkle 
lime around the cellar to destroy a mysterious smell several days after she purchased a large amount of 
arsenic. For 10 points, name this story ending when a strand of Miss Grierson's hair is found next to the 
corpse of Homer Barron, written by William Faulkner. 
ANSWER: \"A  
Rose for Emily 
\" 
105-11-30-17112 
12. This writer described how at age eleven he was deeply influenced by seeing the murder of Kader Mia, a 
Muslim day laborer, in his book  
Identity and Violence 
. This thinker wrote that “Adam Smith’s market 
never stood alone” in trying to redirect consideration from Smith’s  
Wealth of Nations 
 to his  
Theory of 
Moral Sentiments 
. This economist has also tried to promote the idea that simple income inequality is less of 
a problem than capability deprivation. Works by this economist include  
Development as Freedom 
 and  
Poverty and Famines 
. For 10 points, name this Indian economist who won the 1998 Nobel Prize for his 
work on social choice theory and welfare economics. 
ANSWER: Amartya  
Sen 
023-11-30-17113 
13. In the last movement of the first of these works, an alphorn dramatically enters playing a rhythm similar 
to the “Fate” theme of Beethoven’s Fifth. The last of these works concludes with a passacaglia on a theme 
from Bach’s cantata “ 
Nach dir, Herr, Verlanget Mich 
.” The third of these works, in F Major, is 
underpinned by a motif of F, A-flat, F, which represents the motto “Free but Happy,” its composer's answer 
to the motto of his friend Joseph Joachim. Hans von Bulow referred to the first of these four works as 
“Beethoven’s Tenth.” The third of them was composed in 1883, three years after their composer wrote the  
Tragic Overture 
. For 10 points, name these large orchestral works written by the composer of  
A German 
Requiem 
 and the  
Academic Festival Overture 
. 
ANSWER:  
Symphonies 
 by Johannes  
Brahms 
080-11-30-17114 
14. Through his daughter, who was forcibly married to Rhacius, this man became the grandfather of the 
champion diviner Mopsus. He was also the father of the woman who allowed Alcmene to give birth to 
Heracles by scaring away certain witches; that daughter was named Historis. This man lived for at least 
seven generations, and after his death from drinking the waters of Telphussa, he advised against harming 
the cattle of Helios. After killing a snake, he was transformed into a woman for seven years, and he later 
was punished for saying women enjoy sex more by being blinded. For 10 points, name this prophet of 
Thebes, who revealed Oedipus as the murderer of Laius. 
ANSWER:  
Tiresias 
019-11-30-17115 
15. This decision was extended in  
Cumming v. Richmond 
 and  
Berea College v. Kentucky 
. A plaque on 
Press Street commemorates this decision, which was brought about by the action of a PBS Pinchback-led 
citizens committee. David Brewer was absent during this case due to the death of his daughter. The sole 
dissenter in this case believed the law in question amounted to a “badge of servitude;” that dissenter was 
John Marshall Harlan. Albion Tourgee represented this case’s plaintiff, who violated Act 111 by boarding 
a train car designated whites-only. For 10 points, name this case overturned by  
Brown vs. Board of 
Education 
 that established the doctrine of “separate but equal.” 
ANSWER:  
Plessy  v. Ferguson 
048-11-30-17116 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. One article of this treaty transferred control of Ruanda-Urundi to Belgium and divided Togoland 
between France and the United Kingdom. The provision of this treaty that gave territory in the Shandong 
Peninsula to Japan sparked the Chinese nationalist movement called the May Fourth Movement. The 
negotiation of this treaty was walked out on by Vittorio Orlando, and its “economic consequences” were 
examined by John Maynard Keynes. This treaty established the League of Nations. For 10 points, the Paris 
Peace Conference produced what treaty that ended World War I? 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Versailles 
015-11-30-17117 
17. Andrew Ainslie Common's photographs of this region of the galaxy showed that film could record 
astronomical features unseen by the eye. Its is a part of the same system as the Kleinmann-Low Nebula. 
The Fish's Mouth is a dark region of this place. The infrared emitting Becklin-Neugebauer Object is located 
behind this nebula. Some of the first HST images of protoplanetary disks came from this nebula. This 
nebula is home to the Trapezium cluster. It is item M42 in the Messier Catalog and is one of the closest 
locations of recent star formation. For 10 points, name this nebula that in its namesake constellation is 
located below the belt. 
ANSWER: Great  
Orion 
 Nebula [accept the  
Orion Molecular Cloud 
 before M42] 
001-11-30-17118 
18. This poet repeats the refrain \"Let the moment come when hearts love as one\" in the poem \"The Song of 
the Highest Tower.\" Another poem begins with a section where the speaker claims \"One night, I sat Beauty 
down on my lap--and I thought her bitter.\" This poet claimed \"I have bathed in the poem of the sea, 
star-infused and churned into milk\" in a poem narrated by a boat. His best-known poem includes a section 
subtitled \"The Foolish Virgin\" while the speaker claims \"I invented color for the vowels\" in a section about 
the \"alchemy of the word.\" This poet included \"Childhood\" and \"After the Deluge\" in his collection  
Illuminations 
 and featured two parts titled \"Delirium\" in another poem. For 10 points, name this French 
poet of  
A Season in Hell 
 who was shot by Paul Verlaine. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Rimbaud 
088-11-30-17119 
19. Karpa and Weitz used a version of this experiment to show that dark polaritons in an 
electromagnetically-induced transparent medium have non-zero magnetic moment. Another version of this 
experiment was used to show that state transitions could be induced by time-varying RF fields, an effect 
used in MRI machines. Phipps and Taylor showed that its results could be extended to hydrogen atoms, and 
the particles undergoing this experiment had principal quantum number 1 and angular momentum quantum 
number 1. A sulfur-containing cigar was used to visualize the two spots on the detector in this experiment, 
which fired a beam of silver atoms through an inhomogenous magnetic field. For ten points, name this 
experiment which showed that electrons have spin, conducted by two German scientists. 
ANSWER:  
Stern-Gerlach 
 experiment 
048-11-30-17120 
20. This man won a duel against Duke Orilus, who was angry at him because he had taken a token from 
Jeschute. This man married the niece of his tutor Gornemant, Blanchefleur. The first time this man saw 
knights he believed they were angels because he had been raised in the forest. This man failed to ask a 
question about a procession that would have healed the wounded Fisher King. This man is the subject of an 
epic by Wolfram von Eschenbach. For 10 points, name this Arthurian knight who, along with Sir Galahad, 
obtained the Holy Grail. 
ANSWER: Sir  
Percival 
 [or  
Parzival 
] 
105-11-30-17121 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
21. This author wrote of “an inchling” who “bristles in these pines” and “fears not portly Azcan or his 
hoos” in his poem about Chieftain Iffucan. Another poem opens by claiming the “houses are haunted by 
white night-gowns.” This author of “Bantams in Pine-woods” and “Disillusionment of Ten O’Clock” 
wrote a poem about a being who “sang beyond the genius of the sea.” Another poem describes a man who 
“rode over Connecticut in a glass coach” and opens by describing “twenty snowy mountains.” His most 
anthologized poem notes “Let be be finale of seem” and calls for “the roller of big cigars.” For 10 points, 
name this American poet of “The Idea of Order at Key West,” “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird,” 
and “The Emperor of Ice Cream.” 
ANSWER: Wallace  
Stevens 
015-11-30-17122 
22. One of these organisms was the basis of the rII system used by Benzer for single nucleotide mapping, 
and the cosmid uses elements derived from one of these organisms. The first stretch of DNA ever 
sequenced by Frederick Sanger was from one type of this organism, dubbed phi X, and the Luria-Delbruck 
experiment used them to show that mutations are spontaneous. Another experiment using them labeled 
their DNA with phosphorus-32 and their proteins with sulfur-35 in order to show that nucleic acids are the 
material of heredity; that experiment was performed by Hershey and Chase using the T4 type. For 10 
points, name these viruses which infect bacteria. 
ANSWER: bacterio 
phage 
 [prompt on  
viruses 
] 
048-11-30-17123 
23. These people endured the so-called “Rule of the Dukes” after one of their kings was assassinated in a 
coup plotted by his wife, Rosamund. These people were based out of Ticinum and the seminal history of 
these people was written by Paul the Deacon. One king of these people, Rothari, established a namesake 
code of laws. The final king of these people was Desiderius, whose daughter Desiderata married the man 
who eventually conquered this group. Under Alboin, these people established a kingdom in the south, but 
were eventually conquered by Charlemagne, who took the title “King of” this people. For 10 points, name 
these Germanic people who ruled a namesake kingdom in Italy, whose name lives on in a modern-day 
region that is the home of Pavia and Milan. 
ANSWER:  
Lombards 
 [accept  
Langobardi Langobards 
,  , or  
Longobards 
] 
052-11-30-17124 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 17 
Bonuses 
1. After the death of his father, this character is told to visit his uncle Ebenezer, whom he quickly discovers 
is evil. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this character who ends up being forced on board the  
Covenant 
 where he meets people like 
Mr. Shuan and Mr. Riach. 
ANSWER:  
David Balfour 
   [accept either underlined answer] 
[10] David Balfour is the protagonist of  
Kidnapped 
, a book by this author of  
Treasure Island 
. 
ANSWER: Robert Louis Balfour  
Stevenson 
[10] Stevenson also wrote some books of this type of story. Stories of this type were also collected by Jean 
de la Fontaine. 
ANSWER:  
fable 
s 
094-11-30-17201 
2. This figure is compared to a ballet dancer who keeps a particular posture through a jump into the air. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this conceptual figure who is impossible to distinguish based on appearance, but who has an 
absolute belief in God. 
ANSWER:  
knight of faith 
[10] This philosopher, under the name Johannes de Silentio, created the concepts of the knight of faith and 
the knight of infinite resignation. 
ANSWER: Soren Aabye  
Kierkegaard 
[10] Kierkegaard described those knights in this work that describes the willingness of Abraham to 
sacrifice Isaac in the Bible. 
ANSWER:  
Fear and Trembling 
 [or  
Frygt og Baeven 
] 
023-11-30-17202 
3. Name these 20th century Russian poets. For 10 points each: 
[10] This man wrote the poetry collections  
Early Trains 
 and  
 The Second Birth 
, but is better known for 
writing about Yuri’s love for Lara in  
Doctor Zhivago 
. 
ANSWER: Boris  
Pasternak 
[10] This poet claims “as we get older we get honester” in his poem “Zima Junction” and he discusses why 
there is “no monument” to commemorate the title Jewish massacre in his poem “Babi Yar.” 
ANSWER: Yevgeny  
Yevtushenko 
[10] This émigré served as US Poet Laureate and asks, “What is space anyway if not the body’s absence at 
every given point?” in his poem “To Urania.” He also wrote “Elegy for John Donne” and the collection  
 A 
Part of Speech 
. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Brodsky 
109-11-30-17203 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. He painted George Washington holding a hatchet in  
Parson Weems’ Fable 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this American regionalist who painted a farmer holding a pitchfork in  
American Gothic 
. 
ANSWER: Grant  
Wood 
[10] This other regionalist painted either a bear cub or a cat sitting on the end of a boat in  
Fur Traders 
Descending the Missorui 
. 
ANSWER: George Caleb  
Bingham 
[10] This Kansas artist painted a tornado over his home state and depicted John Brown as Moses in a mural 
for the Kansas Statehouse. 
ANSWER: John Steuart  
Curry 
015-11-30-17204 
5. After failing to remove Kruschev as First Secretary, this man was given the job of ambassador to 
Mongolia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Soviet foreign secretary during World War II, the namesake of an explosive cocktail. 
ANSWER: Vyacheslav  
Molotov 
[10] Molotov proposed a nonaggression pact with Germany with this Nazi foreign minister who was 
hanged for war crimes after the war. 
ANSWER: Joachim von  
Ribbentrop 
[10] Molotov survived the 1934 purge triggered by the death of this head of the party operations in 
Leningrad. Although Stalin probably had him killed, his death was used as a rationale for the purges that 
followed. 
ANSWER: Sergey  
Kirov 
015-11-30-17205 
6. This effect is proportional to the fourth power of the light’s frequency. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this form of scattering which is popularly used to explain why the sky is blue. 
ANSWER:  
Rayleigh 
 scattering 
[10] Rayleigh scattering is also similar to this effect seen in colloids and named for a Scottish physicist. 
ANSWER:  
Tyndall 
 effect 
[10] Rayleigh scattering is used to describe situations in which particles are much smaller than the 
wavelength of incident light. This other type of scattering occurs when the particles are of similar or larger 
size. 
ANSWER:  
Mie 
 scattering 
064-11-30-17206 
7. He was inspired by the Roman Vitruvius to publish his systematic survey  
The Four Books of 
Architecture 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this architect known for his many Italian villas, including the Villa Rotunda. 
ANSWER: Andrea  
Palladio 
[10] One disciple of Palladio was this American politician, who was influenced by Italian villas in 
designing his house at Monticello and the Rotunda of the University of Virginia. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Jefferson 
[10] This villa in the town of Maser in northern Italy is known for its façade resembling a Roman temple 
and its interior frescos by Paolo Veronese. Palladio was later commissioned to add a tempietto on its 
grounds. 
ANSWER: Villa  
Barbaro 
015-11-30-17207 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Answer the following questions about Langston Hughes' poetry, for 10 points each. 
[10] In \"The Negro Speaks of Rivers\" the speaker claims he bathed in this river \"when dawns were young.\" 
ANSWER:  
Euphrates 
[10] Hughes wrote about a man who was “droning a drowsy syncopated tune” in this poem set on “Lenox 
Avenue the other night.” 
ANSWER: “The  
Weary Blues 
” 
[10] The narrator of this Hughes poem claims “I am the darker brothers” and anticipates the time when 
“they’ll see how beautiful I am and be ashamed.” 
ANSWER: “ 
I, Too 
, Sing America” 
015-11-30-17208 
9. One of the symptoms of Sjogren’s syndrome is an attack on these glands. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these glands responsible for tear production. 
ANSWER:  
lacrimal 
 glands 
[10] Sjogren's syndrome is in the same category of diseases as this anti-CCP-antibody-associated condition, 
which also causes dry eyes. More notably, it causes swan-neck and boutonniere deformities in the hands 
and is treated with Humira. 
ANSWER:  
rheumatoid arthritis 
[10] The sympathetic nervous system on the other hands regulates these glands which produce epinephrine 
and norepinephrine. 
ANSWER:  
adrenal 
 glands 
064-11-30-17209 
10. Vasily Shisky’s forces assassinated the first one of these men in 1603. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these figures who marched from the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth into Moscow, where 
their Cossack supporters installed them as tsars. 
ANSWER:  
False Dmitri 
s 
[10] The False Dmitris exacerbated this era of Russian history that saw the rule of Boris Gudonov before 
Michael Romanov took the throne in 1613. 
ANSWER:  
Time of Troubles 
[10] Under this king and cousin of Gustavus Adolphus, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth occupied 
Russia during the Time of Troubles after their victory at Klushino. 
ANSWER:  
Sigismund III 
 Vasa 
079-11-30-17210 
11. This poet described the \"small gift\" of being able \"to see ourselves as others see us!\" For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this poet who described seeing an insect on a lady's bonnet at church and penned the lyrics \"A 
Man's a Man for A' That\" and \"My Love Is Like a Red, Red Rose.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Burns 
[10] Burns wrote about a \"wee, sleekit, cow'rin, tim'rous beastie\" in this poem, which notes that certain 
\"best-laid schemes ... gang aft agley.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
To a Mouse 
\" 
[10] Kirkton Jean tells the title character of this poem that he will drown in a river. After drinking, he 
witnesses a vision involved dancing witches and warlocks. 
ANSWER: \" 
Tam o' Shanter 
\" 
020-11-30-17211 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This man was deposed in a military coup led by Deodore da Fonseca. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this last Emperor of Brazil. 
ANSWER:  
Pedro II 
 of Brazil 
[10] Pedro II’s greatest legacy may be his passage of this law, which abolished slavery in Brazil. 
ANSWER:  
Golden 
 Law [or Lei  
Aurea 
] 
[10] This right hand man of Pedro II led the army that toppled Juan Manuel de Roasas and defeated the 
Paraguayans in the War of the Triple Alliance. 
ANSWER: Luiz Alves de Lima e Silva, Duke of  
Caxias 
015-11-30-17212 
13. This deity’s red aspect was associated with the East, and he took his axe to a mountain in order to 
provide corn for humans. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this Mesoamerican deity who used his lightning axe to strike rain-containing snakes in order 
to cause precipitation. He’s similar to Tlaloc from another myth system. 
ANSWER:  
Chaac 
 [or  
Chac 
 or  
Chaahk 
] 
[10] Chaac is a deity from the mythology of these people, whose underworld, Xibalba, was visited by the 
Hero Twins. 
ANSWER:  
Maya 
 People [or the  
Mayan 
s] 
[10] This Hero Twin defeated Seven Macaw with his brother Xbalanque. 
ANSWER:  
Hunahpu 
094-11-30-17213 
14. These are turned into alcohols by oxymercurations. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these hydrocarbons with carbon-carbon double bonds. 
ANSWER:  
alkene 
s [or  
olefin 
s] 
[10] Alkenes can be polymerized by these catalysts named for two scientists. The first of these to be made 
was based off titanium chloride. 
ANSWER:  
Ziegler-Natta 
 catalyst 
[10] Ziegler-Natta catalysts are useful because they can make polypropylene with this property. It means all 
the methyls in the polypropylene are on the same side. 
ANSWER:  
isotactic 
001-11-30-17214 
15. This man kills the Trojan spy Dolon after he gives this man and Odysseus the whereabouts of the 
Thracian king Rhesus. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this warrior from  
The Iliad 
 who almost kills Aeneas before divine intervention saves him, and 
who also wounds Aphrodite and almost fights Apollo. He shares his name with a person whose flesh-eating 
mares were captured by Heracles. 
ANSWER:  
Diomedes 
[10] Diomedes is the son of this member of the Seven Against Thebes, who loses his promised immortality 
after cannibalizing the brains of Melanippus. 
ANSWER:  
Tydeus 
[10] With Odysseus, Diomedes manages to steal this statue from Troy to ensure the city's destruction. In 
one version of the myth, Odysseus attempts to kill Diomedes and take this statue himself. 
ANSWER: the  
Palladium 
 [or  
Palladion 
] 
023-11-30-17215 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. One sign of these is a velocity enhancement signature. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these destructive rotating columns of air measured on the Fujita-Pearson scale. 
ANSWER:  
tornado 
s 
[10] Tornados are often spawned by this type of convective storm which has a large quasi-steady rotating 
updraft. The several kilometer in radius area of rotation in them is called a mesocyclone. 
ANSWER:  
supercell 
[10] This 1925 tornado that traveled over 219 miles is widely considered to be the deadliest in U.S. history. 
ANSWER: The Great 1925  
Tri-State 
 Tornado 
066-11-30-17216 
17. He composed his revolutionary  
April Theses 
 on a sealed train from Germany to his homeland. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this man who led the October Revolution. 
ANSWER: Vladimir Ilyich  
Lenin 
[10] After the devastating famines caused by War Communism, Lenin replaced it with this more lenient 
system which allowed some private ownership. 
ANSWER:  
New Economic Policy 
 [or  
NEP 
; or  
Novaya Ekonomicheskaya Politika 
] 
[10] Stepan Petrichenko led this 1921 revolt at a Gulf of Finland port town and which clearly demonstrated 
the need for economic reform. 
ANSWER:  
Kronstadt 
 Rebellion 
015-11-30-17217 
18. The Swift space telescope is designed to study massive bursts of this type of radiation. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this part of the electromagnetic spectrum that is higher in frequency than x-rays. 
ANSWER:  
gamma 
 radiation [or  
gamma 
 rays] 
[10] One proposed source for short gamma ray bursts is the merger of two of these bodies. Magnetars are 
one type of these objects. 
ANSWER:  
neutron star 
s 
[10] Simulations show that most of the energy from a merger of two neutron stars is carried away in this 
form. Its existence was predicted by general relativity, and LIGO is a project for finding this phenomenon. 
ANSWER:  
gravitational radiation 
 [or  
gravity waves 
] 
001-11-30-17218 
19. She wrote about the sisters Martine and Philippa in her story \"Babette’s Feast.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author who lived for a time in British East Africa. 
ANSWER: Karen  
Blixen 
 [or Isak  
Dinesen 
] 
[10] Blixen wrote about her interactions with the Kikuyu and running her farm in this memoir. 
ANSWER:  
Out of Africa 
[10] The servant Kasparson adopts the persona of a cardinal after killing him in “The Deluge at 
Norderney,” one of this stories in this Blixen collection. 
ANSWER:  
Seven Gothic Tales 
015-11-30-17219 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. This symphony was originally composed as a tone poem for a Jean Paul novel, and its third movement 
consists of a funeral march based on \"Frère Jacques.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this first symphony of a German composer. 
ANSWER:  
Titan 
 Symphony [or  
Mahler’s First 
] 
[10] This composer of “Songs on the Death of Children” and the  
Symphony of a Thousand 
 wrote the  
Titan 
Symphony 
. 
ANSWER: Gustav  
Mahler 
[10] Mahler included a “purgatorio” section in this unfinished symphony which was composed as he was 
treated by Freud and learning of his wife Alma’s affair with Walter Gropius. 
ANSWER: Symphony No.  
10 
015-11-30-17220 
21. For 10 points each, name some things related to the Cherokee people. 
[10] The Cherokee were involved in this forced migration of Indian tribes from the Southeast to Oklahoma 
that took place during the 1830s and saw many deaths due to malnourishment and harsh conditions. 
ANSWER:  
Trail of Tears 
[10] John Ross argued against the ratification of this 1835 Treaty signed by the U.S. Government that 
provided the legal basis for the forced migration of the Cherokee. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
New Echota 
[10] This developer of the Cherokee alphabet, which was used in the publication of the  
Cherokee Phoenix 
, 
was a silversmith who initially taught his creation to his daughter Ayoka. 
ANSWER:  
Seqouyah 
040-11-30-17221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 17     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
