2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 1 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 1  
Related Tossups &  
Bonuses 
1. After the birth of this figure, the seer Asita predicted his greatness, and he died after the blacksmith  
Kunda accidentally gave him some toxic food. According to one story, his father Suddhodana prevented  
him from witnessing any suffering, but one day he witnessed a poor man, a sick man, and a corpse.  
Eventually, this sparked him into sitting under a Bodhi tree and finding enlightenment. For 10 points,  
name this Indian founder of a peaceful Asian religion with branches like Mahayana and Zen.  
ANSWER: Siddh rtha  
a 
Gautama 
 [accept the  Buddha ]   
Bonus: The third of them states that the end to suffering is attainable. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this group of rules about acknowledging and ending suffering.  
ANSWER:  Four Noble Truths 
[10] The fourth noble truth states that the way to end suffering is by following this other set of rules that  
includes “Right View,” “Right Intention,” and “Right Speech”  
ANSWER:  Eightfold Path 
2. His administration was harassed by the Covode Committee, and in a move sometimes known as his  
“blunder,” he sent troops into the Brigham Young4led Utah Territory. He is the only man so far to have  
defeated the incumbent president in his party’s primary election. He was president during the Dred  
Scott case and Bleeding Kansas, and he defeated the first Republican candidate, John Fremont, in the  
19:; election. For 10 points, name this president who succeeded Franklin Pierce and is often criticized  
for his failure in stopping the American Civil War.  
ANSWER: James  Buchanan 
Bonus: In this battle, British forces under John Burgoyne were defeated at Freeman Farm and Bemis  
Heights. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this October 1??? battle in New York, which helped shift French support to the American  
revolutionaries.  
ANSWER: Battle of  Saratoga 
[10] This American general took credit for victory at Saratoga. He was later replaced in the South by  
Nathaniel Greene after losing at Camden.  
ANSWER: Horatio Lloyd  Gates 
B. William Holman Hunt used Elizabeth Siddal to model this personCs hair for the painting  The Light of  
the World . Bellini painted three men asleep behind this person in  Agony in the Garden . Three women  
kneel around the central figure in a Yellow version of this person painted by Paul Gaugain. Rogier van  
der Weyden painted this manCs Deposition, and he appears in the center of da VinciCs  The Last Supper .  
For 10 points, name this religious figure, who appears in two Rubens paintings of his Delevation toD and  
Ddescent fromD the cross.  
ANSWER:  Jesus 
  Christ  [either or both names acceptable] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 2 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: The members of this group were taught by Robert Henri. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this group of American painters including Everett Shinn and John Sloan, named for their  
paintings of urban squalor.  
ANSWER:  Ashcan 
 School  
[10] This painter is sometimes counted as a member of the Ashcan School. His paintings of boxing  
scenes include  Dempsey and Firpo  and  Stag at Sharkey's .  
ANSWER: George  Bellows 
F. When a strong electric field acts on a transparent substance, variation of this quantity gives rise to the  
Kerr effect, which produces birefringence of a transverse beam of light. When light passes through two  
materials that share an interface and have different values for this property, Snell’s law gives the angles  
of incidence and refraction. For 10 points, name this quantity that equals the ratio between the velocity  
of light in a vacuum and the velocity of light in a medium.   
ANSWER:  index of refraction 
 [or  refractive index ]   
Bonus: When this phenomenon occurs for a beam of light passing through a medium in which small  
particles are suspended, it is known as the Tyndall effect. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this phenomenon in which a particle interactions or collides with another particle, causing a  
change in the particle’s direction of motion.  
ANSWER:  scattering 
[10] In this type of elastic scattering, the scattered radiation has a wavelength greater than ten times the  
radius of the particle that causes the scattering.  
ANSWER:  Rayleigh 
 scattering   
:. He outlined his theory of distribution of the things that can be produced by landlords, workers, and  
owners of capital in his  Principles of Political Economy and Taxation .  He believed that workersC income  
remains at the subsidence level despite government interventionG that theory is the Iron Law of Wages.   
Another of his theories states that even if one country can produce everything more efficiently than  
another country, it should not hinder free trade between the countries. For 10 points, name this English  
economist, the formulator of the theory of comparative advantage.  
ANSWER: David  Ricardo 
Bonus: He wrote  A Monetary History of the United States  with Anna Schwartz, and theorized that  
consumer choices were based on long term income expectations.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this American economist, the author of  Capitalism and Freedom , who developed the  
permanent income hypothesis.  
ANSWER: Milton  Friedman 
[10] Friedman subscribed to this theory, which held that everything in the economy was based on the  
money supply.  
ANSWER:  monetarism 
;. Franz Matt organized a government4in4exile in Regensburg in response to this event, and its goal was  
to put Erich Ludendorff in power. In a march to the Marienplatz, sixteen demonstrators and three  
policemen were killed, and the prison sentence that its leader incurred for his role in this event gave him  
time to write Mein Kampf. For 10 points, name this Munich4based coup in 1H2B led by Adolf Hitler,  
which started in the namesake drinking establishment.  
ANSWER:  Beer Hall Putsch 
 [or  Bierkeller Putsch ] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 3 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: Nicknamed the DHammer,D this man divided his lands between his sons Pepin the Short and  
Carloman. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this man who became mayor of the palace after the rule of his father Pepin of Heristal.  
ANSWER:  Charles Martel 
 [prompt on  Charles ]  
[10] The Moorish conquest of Europe was halted by this ?B2 battle, a victory for Charles Martel. Louis XI  
held his Estates General in this French city on the Loire.  
ANSWER: Battle of  Tours 
?. This equation is used to provide corrections to the Butler4Volmer equation, from a special case of  
which it can be derived, and it appears in most models of solid oxide fuel cells.  Katz and Keynes used  
this equation in their studies of a squid axon, and Goldman modified this equation to account for all  
ions.  For a single ion, the ratio of the ideal gas constant to Faraday’s constant is multiplied by  
temperature and the natural log of the reaction quotient in, for 10 points, what equation that yields the  
emf of an electrochemical cellJ   
ANSWER:  Nernst 
 equation   
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these components of an electrochemical cell.   
[10] Oxidation occurs at this electrode, which is contrasted with the cathode.   
ANSWER:  anode 
[10] This type of “bridge” connects the two half4cells of the electrochemical cell, allowing for ion flow  
between the two half4cells, and is often filled with its namesake substance.   
ANSWER:  salt 
 bridge   
9. One character in this novel is alarmed when a corpse in a monastery starts to rot. Another character is  
raised by the servants Marfa and Gregory, has epilepsy, and discovers that his mother was the  
dimwitted Lizavetta. One of this novelCs main characters enters a monastery where he learns from  
Father Zossima, and is told the parable of The Grand Inquisitor. Eventually, this novel reveals that  
Smerdyakov murdered Fyodor, the father of the title characters. For 10 points, name this Dostoyevsky  
novel about the siblings Dmitri, Alexei, and Ivan.  
ANSWER:  The  Brothers Karamazov 
  [or  Bratya Karamazovy ]   
Bonus: She wrote about her grief over her sonCs arrest, the nature of death and spiritual comfort, and  
her relationship to her nation in the poem sequence “Requiem.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Russian poet, who wrote about the dichotomy between the youth and passion of St.  
Petersburg with the suffering of post4revolutionary Leningrad in “A Poem without a Hero.”  
ANSWER: Anna  Akhmatova 
[10] Akhmatova asks who will grieve for the titular figure of this poem. Akhmatova claims Din my heart I  
never will deny herD for turning to watch GodCs destruction of Sodom.  
ANSWER: D Lot's Wife 
D 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 4 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 1  
Category Quiz  
Bonus Choices 
Arts  
Current Events   
Geography  
History  
Literature  
Math Calculation   
Philosophy  
Social Science  
Arts  
Current Events   
Geography  
History  
Literature  
Math Calculation   
Philosophy  
Social Science 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 5 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 1  
Category Quiz Tossups 
H. Lambert Simnel and Perkin Warbeck were among the pretenders that this man faced, and Henry  
Stafford attempted to place this man on the throne in an abortive rebellion. The marriage of his sister  
Margaret to James helped lead to the union of the English and Scottish monarchies, and he married his  
son Arthur off to Catherine of Aragon. For 10 points, name this victor at Bosworth Field, the founder of  
England’s Tudor Dynasty.  
ANSWER:  Henry VII 
10. One character in this series has an underwater house burned down by a misplaced cigar, and  
questions if Harry Truman was hitting on him, saying he DwasnCt hearing a no.D Another characterCs  
mother used a degree in exolinguistics to pass her off as an alien orphan to give her a chance at a  
normal life. Its protagonist is unfrozen after a thousand years of cryogenic suspension, and first makes  
contact with a lab technician who dramatically welcomes him to the DWorld of TomorrowKD For 10  
points, name this cartoon featuring the crustacean doctor John Zoidberg, the one eyed Turanga Leela,  
and former pizza delivery boy Phillip J. Fry.  
ANSWER:  Futurama 
11. This building includes a revolving service door near the kitchen and hidden pulleys used to bring up  
wine bottles directly from its cellar. Two dependencies are connected to this building by raised L4shaped  
wings. Its tripartite design and split4level porticoes were inspired by PalladioCs Villa Rotunda. Its entrance  
features four Doric columns, and this red brick building includes an octagonal dome. For 10 points, name  
this personal residence built in Charlottesville by Thomas Jefferson.  
ANSWER:  Monticello 
12. A discovery of an object in this work is called Da little pat on the back by God, or the gods, or both.D  
The protagonist of this novel thinks of Song of Evil and Song of the Family while watching a scorpion.  
One character warns another to throw the titular object Dback into the sea, or it will destroy us,D but the  
protagonistCs refusal results in the death of his baby son, Coyotito. For 10 points, name this novella in  
which Juana and KitoCs lives are ruined by his discovery of the titular jewel, written by John Steinbeck.  
ANSWER:  The  Pearl 
1B. Mount David and Spruce Knob, each the highest point in their states, can be found in this range. The  
Berkshire Hills run through Vermont as an extension of this chain, and Mount Washington can be found  
in its White Mountains. The Blue Ridge Mountains in this chain are followed by Skyline Drive, and  
another subchain mostly in West Virginia gets its name from a river that forms the Ohio, the  
Alleghenies. For 10 points, name this mountain chain of the eastern United States whose namesake trail  
runs from Maine to Georgia.  
ANSWER:  Appalachian 
 Mountains [or  Appalachians ] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 6 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1F. The CTLA4F gene can trigger T4cells to attack the follicular cells of this structure, leading to  
Hashimoto’s disease.  Another condition arises when antibodies bind to a receptor and continually  
stimulate it, which can lead to blindness in extreme casesG that condition is called Graves’s disease. The  
parafollicular cells of this gland secrete a hormone that reduces blood calcium levels, calcitonin, and its  
namesake hormones require iodine. For 10 points, name this gland that produces thyroxine and  
enlarges in goiter.   
ANSWER:  thyroid 
 gland 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 7 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 1  
Category Quiz  
Bonuses 
Arts:  This opera includes the “Flower Duet” and the coloratura solo “Bell Song.” For 1: points, name this  
opera in which tragedy ensues after the title woman falls in love with a British officer, composed by Léo  
Delibes.  
ANSWER:  Lakmé 
Current Events:  He ran for a US Senate seat in 200;, losing to Ben Cardin, and he was the first African  
American elected at the state level in Maryland. For 1: points, name this Republican National  
Committee Chairman, who in March 200H was forced to retract his attacks aimed at Rush Limbaugh.  
ANSWER: Michael  Steele 
Geography:  The royal residence of this country is in the city of Lobamba, and its largest city is Manzini.  
For 1: points, name this landlocked African nation known for its traditional Dreed dance,D which borders  
Mozambique.  
ANSWER:  Swaziland 
History:  He was defeated in the elections of 1HH9 by Gerhard Schröder. For 1: points, name this final  
chancellor of West Germany, who oversaw the reunification of Germany in 1HH0.  
ANSWER: Helmut  Kohl 
Literature:  The speaker recounts going to Ludlow Fair and tells of DMithridates, he died oldD after  
claiming Dmalt does more than Milton can O to justify GodCs ways to man.D  For 1: points, name this A.E.  
Housman poem whose title figure is told, Dyou eat your victuals fast enough.D  
ANSWER: D Terence/ this is Stupid Stuff 
D   
Math Calculation:  The measure of an internal angle of a regular polygon is exactly twice the measure of  
an external angle of the polygon. For 1: points, how many sides does the polygon haveJ  
ANSWER:  6 
 [accept  hexagon ]   
Philosophy:  In this work, Rene Descartes illustrates the res extensa with a piece of wax.  For 1: points,  
name this work that doubts all previous knowledge using the system outlined in  Discourse on Method .  
ANSWER:  Meditations on First Philosophy 
 [accept  Mediationes de Prima Philosophia G prompt on  
Meditations 
 but do not prompt on any other partial title]  
Social Science:  Her  The Second Stage  criticized the idolization of Superwomen, and her most famous  
work compares American women to Australian Aborigines. For 10 points name this first president of the  
National Organization of Women and author of  The Feminine Mystique .  
ANSWER: Betty  Freidan 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 8 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 1  
Stretch Phase 
1:. In  Quartet for the End of Time , only the cello and this instrument play in the “Eulogy to the Eternity  
of Jesus” movement. Movements like “Hail Bop” appear in John Adams’ concerto for this instrument.  
Edvard Grieg’s  Lyric Pieces  were composed for this instrument, and Liszt wrote a set of “Transcendental”  
etudes for it. Beethoven’s fifth concerto for this instrument is nicknamed “Emperor,” and the  
“Moonlight” sonata is written for it. For 10 points, name this instrument with black and white keys.  
ANSWER:  piano 
 [or  pianoforte ]  
Bonus: It is believed that this figure drowned in the Jucar River while trying to escape a Celtiberian army  
during a siege of Helice, and he put down the MercenariesC War. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Carthaginian general who captured the Sicilian sites of Mount Ercte and Mount Eryx, but  
was forced to sue for peace after Gaius Lutatius Catulus ended the First Punic War.  
ANSWER:  Hamilcar 
 Barca  
[10] This son of Hamilcar and brother of Hasdrubal used Boii guides when he crossed the Alps with an  
army that included B? elephants during the Second Punic War.  
ANSWER:  Hannibal 
[10] Hannibal and the Carthaginian army eventually lost to forces under Scipio Africanus the Elder at this  
202 BC battle that ended the Second Punic War.  
ANSWER: Battle of  Zama 
1;. One form of this god had the head of a scarab beetle, and according to one legend this god’s tears  
became bees. This god is sometimes aided by the helpful snake Mehen, who has a namesake board  
game. This god changed into a giant cat and tore off the head of the evil serpent Apep, and the war  
goddess Sekhmet is sometimes called the “eye of” this god, who emerges each day in the east and  
departs in the west.  For 10 points, name this Egyptian god of the sun, who is sometimes combined with  
Amon.   
ANSWER:  Ra 
Bonus: At the onset of a plague in Thebes, the Oracle of Apollo reveals that the plague is a punishment  
for this figure’s death. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this husband of Jocasta, killed at the meeting place of three roads in Phocis by his son, whom  
he had earlier left for dead on a mountain side.  
ANSWER:  Laius 
[10] Laius’ death figures prominently in this play by Sophocles, in which the title character ultimately  
blinds himself when he learns he has killed his father and committed incest.  
ANSWER:  Oedipus Tyrannus 
 [or  Oedipus the King G or  Oedipus Rex ]  
[10] In the final play of Sophocles’ Oedipus trilogy,  Antigone , the feud between these two sons of  
Oedipus eventually leads to Antigone’s entombment and suicide. Name either one.  
ANSWER:  Polynices 
 and  Eteocles  [accept either] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 9 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1?. Forces from this country won the 1F?1 Battle of Brunkerburg under Sture the Elder, and an early  
center in what is now this country was Visby. Archbishop Trolle instigated a 1:20 massacre in this  
nation’s capital, known as that city’s “bloodbath,” that prompted the installment of this nation’s Vasa  
dynasty. This nation’s king Charles XII was defeated in the Great Northern War, ending its time as a  
major Protestant power in Northern Europe. For 10 points, name this Scandinavian country with capital  
at Stockholm.  
ANSWER:  Sweden 
 [or  Sverige ]  
Bonus: Dryer sheets are sometimes used to prevent the buildup of this phenomenon.  For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this type of electricity that is caused by a buildup of charge on a surface.  
ANSWER:  static 
 electricity  
[10] This type of generator can output millions of volts of static electricity, but the current remains small  
enough that touching it merely shocks and does not kill.  
ANSWER:  van de Graaff 
 generator  
[10] In contrast, this other device produces electricity in current form, allowing it to give off plasma  
discharge and light up fluorescent bulbs from several feet away.  
ANSWER:  Tesla coil 
19. The Eövtös rule states that this property decreases as temperature increases. The Young4Laplace  
equation relates pressure to the total vertical force produced by this phenomenon as a function of the  
radius of curvature. Emulsifying agents belong to a class of compounds that decrease this property,  
surfactants, and within a capillary, a meniscus forms as a result of this phenomenon. For 10 points,  
name this property of fluids, which arises from the attraction between molecules located on the liquid’s  
surface with each other and nearby molecules.   
ANSWER:  surface tension 
Bonus: Originally the hero of independence in his native country, he later turned it into a one4party state  
under the Convention People’s Party.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this advocate of Pan4Africanism, who secured his country’s independence from the British  
before being overthrown in a 1H;; coup while on a state visit to Vietnam.  
ANSWER: Kwame  Nkrumah 
[10] Until the coup, Nkrumah led this country, which was known as the Gold Coast while under British  
control.  
ANSWER:  Ghana 
[10] Also a former colony in British West Africa, this country faced a war of independence from Biafra.   
Its leaders have included Olusegun Obasanjo and Umaru Yar’Adua.  
ANSWER:  Nigeria 
1H. One poem by this name described how a Dpowerful but unrecorded race O Once dwelt in that  
annihilated place.D That poem by Horace Smith was likely part of a competition with the better known  
poem of this name, in which a traveler describes seeing a Dsneer of cold commandD on a DshatterCd  
visage.D This poem is named for a monument reduced to DTwo vast and trunkless legs of stone,D whose  
inscription reads, DLook on my Works, ye Mighty, and despairKD For 10 points, name this Percy Shelley  
sonnet about a statue of an ancient king.  
ANSWER: D Ozymandias 
D 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 10 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: The occurrence of this phenomenon signals the coming of Ragnarok, and it will force brother to  
kill brother in its innumerable wars. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this occurrence of three successive winters without an intervening spring.  
ANSWER:  Fimbulwinter 
[10] This fire giant and leader of the forces of Muspellheim battles Freyr at RagnarokG his fires will engulf  
the earth.  
ANSWER:  Surt 
r  
[10] This wolf bit off TyrCs hand when he was chained down, and will devour Odin but will be slain by  
Vidarr at Ragnarok.  
ANSWER:  Fenrir 
 [or the  Fenris  wolf]  
20. Robin Canup suggests that this body was formed from a giant impact of a Kuiper Belt object. Similar  
objects to this entity include Nix and Hydra, and this object was discovered in 1H?9 by James Christy  
when he noticed a periodic bulge in photographs of the body it orbits.  This body is located in a system  
in which the center of gravity is not located within the object this body orbits, one of the reasons that  
orbited body is no longer a planet. For 10 points, name this object that orbits Pluto, named for the  
Greek ferryman of the dead.  
ANSWER:  Charon 
 [accept  Pluto I ]   
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these poems by Robert Frost.  
[10] Beginning DHe saw her from the bottom of the stairs O before she saw him,D this poem ends with a  
husband telling his wife DICll bring you back by forceK I willKD   
ANSWER: D Home Burial 
D  
[10] The narrator has Dmiles to go beforeD he sleeps in this poem, in which his horse cannot figure out  
why they are resting Dwithout a farmhouse near.D  
ANSWER: D Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening 
D  
[10] The maxim DGood fences make good neighborsD ends this poem, in which the titular action keeps  
one manCs apples from interfering with his neighborCs pine cones.  
ANSWER: D Mending Wall 
D   
21. This dynasty simultaneously fought Muslims in the Dungan and Panthay rebellions, and combined  
with the Nian rebellion, these would lead to the self strengthening movement led by Li Hongzhang and  
Zeng Guofan. This dynasty also saw the establishment of the Kingdom of Heavenly Peace in Nanjing by  
Hong Xiuquan during the Taiping Rebellion. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty whose internal  
problems were overshadowed by the Boxer Rebellion and the Opium Wars against the British, a Manchu  
dynasty of China that ended in 1H12.  
ANSWER:  Qing 
 Dynasty [prompt on early  Manchu  dynasty] 
Bonus: Their kinetics can be described with the Michaelis4Menten equation, and these proteins lower  
the activation energy of a reaction. For 10 points each:  
[10] Give the general name for these catalytic proteins.  
ANSWER:  enzyme 
[10] This type of model for enzyme activity suggests that the substrate of an enzyme reshapes the  
enzyme’s active site while binding is occurring. It modifies the traditional lock and key model.  
ANSWER:  induced fit 
[10] This is the word for a compound that must be bound to an enzyme in order for it to function.   
ANSWER:  cofactor 
 [accept  coenzyme ] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 11 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
22. Tom ThumbCs victory over Queen GlumdalcaCs giants highlights a work dubbed the Dthis wordD of  
Dthis words,D a play by Henry Fielding. Fletcher and Beaumont wrote a work about Melantius and  
Evadne titled after the maidCs one of them. Vendice holds a skull in his hand at the beginning of a play by  
Cyril Tourneur named for the DRevergerCsD one, while a play whose title ends with this word sees  
Balthazar fall in love with Bel4Imperia before Hieronymo goes mad and cuts out his tongue. For 10  
points, name this concept, a DSpanishD version of which was written by Thomas Kyd.  
ANSWER:  tragedy 
 [or  tragedies ]   
Bonus: The first chord of this opera contains the notes F, B, D sharp, and G sharp, and is named after  
one of the title characters. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this opera in which the two title characters from Celtic myth are doomed after they drink a  
love potion.  
ANSWER:  Tristan and Isolde 
 [or  Tristan und Isolde ]  
[10] This German composer of  Tristan and Isolde  is most famous for his massive  Ring of the Nibelung .  
ANSWER: Richard  Wagner   
[10] The “Bridal Chorus” from this Wagner opera is often played at weddings today. The title knight  
marries Elsa, but she dies after he is carried away to join the other knights of the Holy Grail.  
ANSWER:  Lohengrin 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 12 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 1  
Tiebreakers + Extras 
1. Like some arthropods, most members of this phylum bind oxygen to copper in a plus two oxidation  
state within the metalloprotein hemocyanin, which is suspended in hemolymph. Organisms in this  
phylum are characterized by the presence of a tongue4like ribbon with chitinous teeth called a radula.  
Some members possess a conchiolin and calcium carbonate shell secreted by a soft mantle covering. For  
10 points, name this animal phylum that contains cephalopods, such as cuttlefish, and gastropods, such  
as snails.   
ANSWER:  Mollusca 
 [accept  mollusk s]  
2. This figure won military victories at Varese and at Volturno. He first gained fame fighting for the  
separatist Republic of Rio Grande do Sul in the War of Tatters, and later unleashed his legion in the  
Uruguayan Civil War. Better known are his defense of Mazzini’s short4lived Roman Republic and a  
campaign against King Francis II of Naples, after which he subordinated himself to Count Cavour and  
Victor Emmanuel II. For 10 points, name this leader of Italian unification, who conquered the Kingdom of  
the Two Sicilies with his Red Shirts.  
ANSWER: Giuseppe  Garibaldi 
B. This artist painted a book being reflected properly in the mirror faced by his patron Edward James,  
although the mirror paradoxically displays JamesCs back, in  Not to be Reproduced . His painting  Golconda   
depicts men in suits falling from the sky. This artist also painted a room, bare save for a mirror hanging  
above a clock on the mantle, in which a small train emerges from the fireplace. Another of his paintings  
includes the words “This is not a pipe.” For 10 points, identify this Belgian surrealist painter of  Time  
Transfixed  and  The Treachery of Images .  
ANSWER: Rene  Magritte 
Extra 204point bonus:  
The third section of this poem repeats the word “Holy” over and over. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this poem, whose narrator Dsaw the best minds of [his] generation destroyed by madness,D  
ANSWER: D Howl 
D  
[10] This beat generation poet wrote DSunflower SutraD as well as DHowl.D  
ANSWER: Allan  Ginsburg 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 1   Page 13 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Extra B04point bonus:  
For 10 points each, name the following things related to tornadoes.  
[10] The tell4tale funnel cloud that forms around a tornado is made out of this gas, which is made visible  
due to strong rotation.  
ANSWER:  water 
 vapor     
[10] This is the term given to a tornado that forms over water.   
ANSWER:  waterspout 
[10] Tornadoes can be measured as F1 though F: on this scale of tornado strength, named for a  
Japanese scientist.  
ANSWER: Enhanced  Fujita 
 Scale 
