NASAT 2012 
Round 4 
Tossups 
1. In Bengali, this form is derived by adding the suffix -te to the verb stem, as in \"korte.\" Hebrew has two 
versions of this form, the \"absolute\" and the \"construct.\" In German, this form is sometimes found with the 
preposition \"zu,\" but always in \"en\" and is thus exemplified by \"sagen\" and \"schlafen.\" In Latin, its 
\"complementary\" form can accompany the verbs \"volo\" (WOA-low) and \"nolo\" (NOAL-low). Spanish first 
conjugation verbs take this form when they end in -ar, like \"hablar\"; in English, overly-parsimonious 
grammarians warn against \"splitting\" them. For 10 points, name this verb form, exemplified by the English 
\"to do.\" 
ANSWER: present  
infinitives 
080-12-59-04102 
2. The government of this city began the controversial Galliara beautification project. Legend has it that 
Hazrat Mian Mir laid the foundation of one building in this city. The Sarovar is a tank here which contains 
holy water. Its name comes from the “Pool of the Nectar of Immortality,” an item created by this city’s 
founder, Ram Das. Adherents of a particular faith were horrified when troops entered this city as part of 
Operation Blue Star. The most famous building in this city is officially titled the Harmandir Sahib. That 
gurdwara was completed by Arjun Dev and houses the Adi Granth. For 10 points, name this city in India, 
home to the Sikh Golden Temple. 
ANSWER:  
Amritsar 
 [or  
Ramdaspur 
; or  
Ambarsar 
] 
052-12-59-04103 
3. This king created the positions of \"baillis\" and \"seneschals\" to supervise local government. This man was 
placed under interdict for refusing to give up his third wife and retake Ingeborg of Denmark, his second 
wife. This ruler built a namesake city wall to fortify Paris. After capturing the castle of Chateau-Gaillard, 
he proceeded with the conquest of Normandy. A coalition of the Count of Flanders, Emperor Otto IV, and 
the Count of Boulogne failed to defeat this man at the Battle of Bouvines. Despite possibly having a 
homosexual affair with Richard I on the Third Crusade, he waged many wars against the Angevin Empire. 
For 10 points, name this King of France from 1180 to 1223, whose byname was a Roman title. 
ANSWER:  
Philip II 
 Augustus of France [or  
Philip Augustus 
; or  
Philip the Great 
; or  
Philippe Auguste 
; 
prompt on  
Philip 
; prompt on  
Philippe 
] 
080-12-59-04104 
4. In one work by this man featuring a number of drinking songs, the government closes all the pubs for its 
citizens' supposed good. George Bernard Shaw created a portmanteau to parody this man's friendship with 
Hilaire Belloc. This author of  
The Flying Inn 
 wrote a novel in which the commoner Auberon Quin becomes 
king of England and makes the different boroughs of London go to war with one another. In \"The Blue 
Cross,\" he introduced the criminal Flambeau, who is foiled by a Catholic priest/detective. Another of his 
works ends after Gabriel Syme learns that the other weekdays are also undercover detectives. For 10 points, 
name this author of  
The Napoleon of Notting Hill, 
 the Father Brown stories, and  
The Man Who Was 
Thursday. 
ANSWER: Gilbert Keith  
Chesterton 
105-12-59-04105 
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  1 of 12 
5. The groups of this type are ones that given a vector space over a field, preserve a non-degenerate 
quadratic form over that space. Euler's conjecture on Graeco-Roman Squares was refuted for n=6 by 
finding this sort of matrix. Householder matricies are always symmetric and this. Linear transformations of 
this type preserve inner products. Fourier's theorem is dependent on trignometric functions having this 
property, which means the integral from negative pi to pi of sin kx times sin jx dx is only non-zero for k 
equals j. If the vectors in a basis are of unit length and this, then they are orthonormal. If the dot product of 
two vectors is zero, the vectors are this to each other. For 10 points, name this adjective used to describe 
lines or curves that are perpendicular. 
ANSWER:  
orthogonal 
001-12-59-04106 
6. Delis in this city are known for a codfish patty usually served with mustard between two saltines. In this 
city, Isaac Emerson copied Florence’s Palazzo Vecchio, but moved the clock face up, to design a tower 
owned by Bromo-Seltzer. I.M Pei designed a pentagonal, 405-foot World Trade Center for this city, whose 
neighborhoods include Locust Point and Fells Point. Suburbs of this city include the largely-Jewish 
Pikesville and Towson, and it was the eastern terminus of an early railroad out to the Ohio River, which 
was partly named for it. This city recently renovated its Inner Harbor, and it’s home to the Pimlico race 
course. For 10 points, name this city once guarded by Fort McHenry, the largest in Maryland. 
ANSWER:  
Baltimore 
, Maryland 
104-12-59-04107 
7. One piece of art about this war was created by Sal Veder and depicts Robert Stirm, who had received a 
letter of separation from his wife three days before. Besides  
Burst of Joy 
, which depicts a teenager eagerly 
racing towards her returning father, this conflict was represented by a work showing a girl mouthing the 
words “too hot, too hot.” One photo of this conflict depicts a national police chief about to shoot and 
execute his prisoner, while another photo features a naked screaming child running on a road after being 
burned by napalm. For 10 points, name this conflict represented by a photograph in which General Nguyen 
Ngoc Loan executes Nguyen Van Lem on a street in Saigon. 
ANSWER:  
Vietnam 
 War 
052-12-59-04108 
8. After pushing the protagonist of this work's car into a ravine, a policeman tells him, “Them that don't 
have cars don't need licenses.” Another character in this work spends his afternoons unsuccessfully flirting 
with the waitress of the Frosty Bottle before visiting the “muvseevum” that contains a shrunken artifact. 
The protagonist's second encounter with the police comes when they beat him to death after he has blinded 
himself and is found lying in a ditch. Enoch steals a mummy and tries to make it the “new jesus” of the 
protagonist's new religion. For 10 points, Hazel Motes tries to start the Church Without Christ in what 
novel, the first by Flannery O'Connor? 
ANSWER:  
Wise Blood 
121-12-59-04109 
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  2 of 12 
9. In his last days, this man called Whitelaw Reid a \"son of a bitch\" and accused him of stealing his prized 
possession. One cartoon depicts this man shaking hands with a Southerner as they stand over a dead black 
man, a reference to his call for Americans to \"clasp hands over the bloody chasm.\" He published \"The 
Prayer of Twenty Millions,\" an open letter calling on Lincoln to free the slaves. In his presidential 
campaign, he was mocked for signing a bond for the release of Jefferson Davis. This man died before the 
1872 electoral votes were counted, though his Liberal Republican campaign was easily beaten by Ulysses 
Grant. For 10 points, name this founder of the  
New York Tribune 
 who was credited with the quote \"Go 
West, young man.\" 
ANSWER: Horace  
Greeley 
052-12-59-04110 
10. In polymer solutions, these phenomena occurs through a process called spinodal decomposition, and 
one of these that does not break symmetry occurs in the two-dimensional XY model and is of infinite order. 
Continuous ones can be sorted into universality classes by their critical exponents. One equation for 
describing these phenomena equates the derivative of pressure with respect to temperature to the inverse of 
temperature times the change in volume; that equation is named for Clausius and Clapeyron 
(\"KLAH-peh-rohn\"). Black postulated a form of energy that is absorbed or released during this 
phenomenon without causing a change in temperature, known as latent heat. For 10 points, name this type 
of physical phenomenon whose variants include deposition, sublimation, and melting. 
ANSWER:  
phase transition 
 [accept equivalents like  
phase change 
; accept  
separation 
 before \"XY 
model\"] 
064-12-59-04111 
11. This man fathered twins on Tyro, who murdered them, as part of an attempt to overthrow his brother 
Salmoneus. To thwart Autolycus' attempts at theft, this man wrote the beginning of his name on his cattle's 
hooves, and in some myths, he seduced Autolycus' daughter Anticleia, thereby becoming the father of 
Odysseus. This man told the river god Asopus that Zeus was sleeping with his daughter Aegina. When 
Zeus then sent Hades to punish this man, this king of Corinth handcuffed Hades such that no one could die 
until he was freed. For 10 points, name this trickster, who endlessly rolled a boulder up a hill in Tartarus as 
punishment. 
ANSWER:  
Sisyphus 
080-12-59-04112 
12. This man's government used the slogan \"Believe, Obey, Fight!\" and created a secret police called the 
OVRA. He made use of paramilitary groups that force-fed political opponents castor oil to give them 
diarrhea. This man, who launched the \"Battle for Grain\" and \"Battle for Births,\" solidified his control by 
passing a law that gave 2/3 of the seats in parliament to any party with a plurality of votes. After his 
government assassinated a rival politician, 150 of his opponents withdrew from the Chamber of Deputies 
during the Matteoti Crisis. This leader signed the \"Pact of Steel\" with a northern country and made use of 
the \"Blackshirts\" to take power during the \"March on Rome.\" For 10 points, name this Fascist leader of 
Italy during World War II. 
ANSWER: Benito Amilcare Andrea  
Mussolini 
080-12-59-04113 
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  3 of 12 
13. Reports on this living person’s activities resulted in Sara Ganim becoming the second-youngest person 
to win a Pulitzer Prize. On the show  
Rock Center, 
 Bob Costas called him “the unluckiest and most 
persecuted man that any of us has ever heard about.” This man’s actions resulted in perjury indictments for 
Gary Schultz and Tim Curley. He founded a charity called The Second Mile and wrote an autobiography 
titled  
Touched. 
 This man supposedly engaged in an illegal activity witnessed by assistant Mike McQueary. 
After his arrest, college president Graham Spanier was forced to resign. For 10 points, name this former 
assistant for Joe Paterno at Penn State University, currently charged with over forty counts of sexual abuse 
of young boys. 
ANSWER: Gerald Arthur “Jerry”  
Sandusky 
052-12-59-04114 
14. In this work, a story is related of a woman whose corpse is exhumed so that she can become the wife of 
a king named Peter. Besides telling of Ines de Castro, this work contains characters such as Monsayeed, 
who warns the main character of a plot against him. The main character of this work is opposed by 
Bacchus, who takes the guise of various Moors, but is helped by Venus, who eventually guides him to the 
Isle of Love, where he falls in love with Tethys. In this work, Adamastor represents the dangers faced by 
sailors near the Cape of Good Hope, and Vasco da Gama faces peril in Calicut. For 10 points, name this 
poem by Luis Vaz de Camoes, the national epic of Portugal. 
ANSWER:  
The  Lusiads 
 [or  
Os  Lusiadas 
] 
040-12-59-04115 
15. One theory describing this phenomenon predicts an intensity distribution proportional to the square of 
the sinc function. The pattern produced by this effect is the same as that produced by the complementary 
body according to Babinet’s principle. The first zero of the sinc function helps define a limit by which a 
system is limited by this phenomenon. One version of this phenomenon produces a feature of angular size 
approximately equal to 1.22 times lambda over D, called the Airy disk; that version occurs through a 
circular aperture. Huygens principle is often used to study this phenomenon, which occurs when light 
shines through an opening of any kind. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which a wave bends 
around an object. 
ANSWER:  
diffraction 
048-12-59-04116 
16. This man composed works such as \"Warte, warte, wilder Schiffmann\" (VAHR-te, VAHR-te, VIL-der 
SHIFF-mahn), \"Auf einer Burg,\" and \"Wehmut\" (VAY-moot) during his \"Year of Song.\" His piano 
concerto is an expansion of his earlier composition called  
Phantasie 
, and is in A minor. The \"Sphinxes\" 
movement is often omitted from his Opus 9, which includes the musical cryptogram A-S-C-H and 
movements titled for Florestan and Eusebius. In his Third Symphony, three trombones represent a bishop 
being made a cardinal at the Cologne Cathedral. For 10 points, name this composer of  
Papillons Carnaval 
,  , 
and symphonies called ”Rhenish” and ”Spring”. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Schumann 
079-12-59-04117 
17. A prominent chancellor and merchant who served as regent for this dynasty's first ruler was Lu Buwei, 
who wrote the text  
Lushi Chunqiu 
. It split into the Eighteen Kingdoms. The Hundred Schools of Thought 
was purged via a massive book burning that occurred during this dynasty, which was brought down by a 
rebel leader named Liu Bang. The founder of this dynasty helped end a power vacuum that occurred 
following the collapse of the Zhou dynasty and was buried alongside a Terracotta Army. For 10 points, Shi 
Huangdi was the founder of what first imperial dynasty of China, which came before the Han dynasty? 
ANSWER:  
Qin 
 Dynasty 
064-12-59-04118 
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  4 of 12 
18. In this work, John the Baptist reads from a Bible in which the first words of Isaiah 40, \"comfort ye,\" 
can be seen. When closed, this work shows its patrons kneeling before illusionistic sculptures of John the 
Baptist and John the Evangelist. Statuesque depictions of Cain and Abel appear above the nude Adam and 
Eve on the sides of this work, in which a red-robed Jesus wears a papal crown. Saints, martyrs, and apostles 
gather in the largest panel of this work to honor a creature whose blood is pouring into a chalice. It is 
sometimes titled for that panel, the  
Adoration of the Lamb 
. For 10 points, name this altarpiece by Hubert 
and Jan van Eyck. 
ANSWER:  
Ghent  Altarpiece 
 [or  
Adoration of the Lamb 
 before mentioned] 
105-12-59-04119 
19. This poet wrote, “ask for no Orphean lute to pluck life back” in a poem concluding, “The Lord survives 
the rainbow of his will.” That poem describes “the end of the whaleroad and the whale.” In another poem, 
the speaker states, “I hear my ill-spirit sob in each blood cell,” before observing a creature that “drops her 
ostrich tail, and will not scare.” This man, who dedicated that poem to Elizabeth Bishop, also described 
how “giant finned cars nose forward like fish” in a poem noting, “Colonel Shaw is riding on his bubble.” 
For 10 points, name this American poet of “The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket,” “Skunk Hour,” and 
“For the Union Dead.” 
ANSWER: Robert  
Lowell 
014-12-59-04120 
20. The size of these objects which are NOT found outside the cell is regulated by Orofaciodigital 
Syndrome 1 protein. The stabilization and formation of these structures is aided by ANA2. In  
C. Elegans 
, 
formation of these objects requires ZYG-1 to phosphorylate SAS-6, but in humans the ZYG-1 is replaced 
in its role by PLK4. These cellular components have 9 fold symmetry and are replicated once per cell 
cycle. These objects are found in a larger structure along with the gamma-tubulin ring complex. These 
objects and basal bodies have a similar structure and composition. For 10 points, name these microtubule 
structures that are found in centrosomes, which serve as attachment points for the mitotic spindle and have 
a 9+3 structure. 
ANSWER:  
centriole 
s [prompt on  
centrosome 
s; prompt on  
basal body 
] 
001-12-59-04121 
21. After the death of Patriarch Adrian, this ruler replaced the Patriarchate with the Most Holy Synod. In 
his youth, this man gained military experience in war games he played with his \"toy army.\" This ruler faced 
a revolt consisting of a class of soldiers attempting to replace him with his sister Sophia. This ruler 
expanded his territory in his Azov campaign against the Ottomans, after which he founded a base at 
Taganrog. This ruler found his old friend Gerrit Kist in Zaandam and worked for Lynst Rogge at a shipyard 
while part of the Grand Embassy. The victor at the Battle of Poltava, for 10 points, name this ruler who 
defeated Charles XII of Sweden in the Great Northern War and built a namesake \"window to the West\" on 
the Baltic. 
ANSWER:  
Peter the Great 
 [or  
Peter I 
 of Russia; or  
Pyotr Alekseyevich 
; or  
Pyotr Veliky 
; prompt on  
Peter 
; prompt on  
Pyotr 
] 
141-12-59-04122 
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  5 of 12 
22. This poem asks, “What is it that will last? All things are taken from us, and become portions and 
parcels of the dreadful past.” Characters in this poem worry that they “should come like ghosts to trouble 
joy” and declare, “Let what is broken so remain.” The first speaker describes “a land in which it seemed 
always afternoon” where he encounters the “mild-eyed melancholy” title characters, who sing a “choric 
song” concluding, “O, rest ye, brother mariners, we will not wander more.” For 10 points, name this poem 
by Lord Tennyson about the consumers of a certain psychoactive fruit from the  
Odyssey. 
ANSWER: “The  
Lotos-Eaters 
” 
014-12-59-04123 
23. This quantity is the intensive natural variable of Helmholtz free energy. In statistical mechanics, the 
canonical ensemble holds this quantity constant. The internal energy due to a quadratic degree of freedom 
is proportional to this quantity according to the equipartition theorem, which sets that energy as one-half 
Boltzmann’s constant times this quantity. The negative conductivity times the gradient of this quantity 
appears on one side of Fourier's law. Black body radiation is proportional to this quantity raised to the 
fourth power according to the Stefan-Boltzmann law. Entropy is multiplied by this quantity when 
calculating Gibbs free energy. Heat capacity measures the energy necessary to change this quantity. For 10 
points, name this quantity measured in Kelvins. 
ANSWER:  
temperature 
132-12-59-04124 
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  6 of 12 
NASAT 2012 
Round 4 
Bonuses 
1. This work was published in 1934, compiled from the first Williams James Lecture given at Harvard. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this aesthetic text, which claims that a work of art is not identical with the \"art product,\" or the 
physical object, but arises out of the \"Live Creature's\" engagement with the object. 
ANSWER: \" 
Art as Experience 
\" 
[10] \"Art as Experience\" is a work by this author of \"The Reflex-Arc Concept in Psychology,\" who 
attacked the \"philosophic fallacy\" in  
Experience and Nature 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Dewey 
[10] This major work by John Dewey argues that public schools will help create better citizens by 
developing their abilities instead of teaching them only facts. 
ANSWER:  
Democracy and Education 
080-12-59-04201  
2. This woman's two children playing in the sand may be depicted in a scherzo in one of her husband's 
symphonies. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this woman whose composition teacher, Alexander von Zemlinsky, once seduced her. Her 
theme appears in her husband's sixth, or  
Tragic 
, symphony. 
ANSWER:  
Alma 
 Maria Mahler Gropius Werfel [or Alma Maria  
Schindler 
; or  lma  
A Mahler 
; prompt on  
Mahler 
; prompt on  
Gropius 
; prompt on  
Werfel 
] 
[10] Near the end of her life, Alma attended rehearsals by this long-time director of the New York 
Philharmonic and composer of  
West Side Story 
. 
ANSWER: Leonard  
Bernstein 
[10] Dedicated to Serge Koussevitzky, this Bernstein composition consists of The Seven Ages and The 
Seven Stages. It was inspired by a long poem about three men and a woman who meet in a New York bar. 
ANSWER: Bernstein's  
Symphony No. 2 
 [or  
The  Age of Anxiety 
] 
020-12-59-04202  
3. The effective mass of these particles are altered by matter in the MSW effect. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these weakly interacting leptons whose low mass is thought to be explained by the Seesaw 
mechanism. A faulty optics cable may explain OPERA’s results, which deal with these particles. 
ANSWER:  
neutrinos 
[10] The Homestake experiment first provided evidence that neutrinos undergo this phenomenon, in which 
the namesake quantum number changes. In order for this phenomenon to occur neutrinos must have mass. 
ANSWER:  
flavor oscillation 
 [prompt on partial] 
[10] The Homestake experiment measured the number of neutrinos emitted by this celestial object, which is 
located at the center of the solar system. Light from this object can produce Baily’s beads. 
ANSWER:  
Sun 
149-12-59-04203  
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  7 of 12 
4. One type of these institutions established a system of quality control over their products, while another 
was responsible for coordinating trade embargoes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these medieval associations of merchants or craftsmen. 
ANSWER: merchant  
guild 
s [or craft  
guild 
s] 
[10] After completing their apprenticeships, aspiring members of craft guilds achieved this rank. They 
could be paid for their labor, but had to submit a \"masterwork\" to become a master. 
ANSWER:  
journeyman 
[10] Another association of guilds, the Hansa, established these outposts in cities where they wanted to 
trade. 
ANSWER:  
Kontors 
080-12-59-04204  
5. Norse gods of this entity include Aegir and Njord, and Thor pulls the Midgard Serpent out of this entity 
using a baited hook while on a trip with Hymir. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this geographical entity. 
ANSWER: the  
sea 
 [or the  
ocean 
] 
[10] This Inuit sea goddess also rules the underworld, called Adlivun. In one myth, she was initially 
married off to a man who turned out to be vicious raven in disguise. 
ANSWER:  
Sedna 
[10] In several versions of the Sedna myth, Sedna’s father attempts to throw her from his kayak and cuts 
off these body parts of hers, which then originated diverse Arctic wildlife. 
ANSWER:  
fingers 
014-12-59-04205  
6. This leader was killed at the Battle of Cerro Cora. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Paraguayan leader whose invasion of Mato Grasso sparked a conflict with Brazil, 
Argentina, and Uruguay. 
ANSWER: Francisco Solano  
Lopez 
[10] Lopez led Paraguay during this 1864 to 1870 conflict in South America. 
ANSWER: War of the  
Triple Alliance 
[10] This president of Argentina from 1862 to 1868 was initially the commander of allied forces, but gave 
up his position in 1866 to the Duke of Caxias. 
ANSWER: Bartolome  
Mitre 
064-12-59-04206  
7. After the death of his master, this character berates his fellows in a speech declaring, “Often when one 
man follows his own will many are hurt. This happened to us.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this son of Weohstan, the only warrior to join Beowulf in his fight against the dragon. 
ANSWER:  
Wiglaf 
[10] Many years prior to fighting the dragon, Beowulf defends Hrothgar’s hall by slaying this monster and 
his mother. 
ANSWER:  
Grendel 
[10] As Beowulf lies dying after the battle with the dragon, he asks Wiglaf to bring him this. 
ANSWER: the dragon’s  
treasure 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
014-12-59-04207  
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  8 of 12 
8. In this art technique, the canvas is placed over a textured object and the dried paint above that object is 
scraped over. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Surrealist art technique. 
ANSWER:  
grattage 
[10] The inventor of frottage and grattage was this German Dadaist and surrealist, whose works include  
The Temptation of St. Anthony 
 and a bizarre photomontage,  
Here Everything is Still Floating. 
ANSWER: Max  
Ernst 
[10] This Catalan painter of  
Dog Barking at the Moon 
 and other \"dream pictures\" helped Ernst develop the 
grattage technique. 
ANSWER: Joan  
Miro 
 i Ferra 
003-12-59-04208  
9. Answer the following about the biology of a neuron, for 10 points each: 
[10] A neuron is typically composed of dendrites, the cell body, and this long projection which carries a 
signal away from the cell body. 
ANSWER:  
axon 
s 
[10] This is the term for the event in which a neuron's membrane potential rapidly rises and falls, firing one 
of these. It is prompted by a stimulus that overcomes the threshold potential. 
ANSWER:  
action potential 
[10] Name this period after the peak of the action potential between repolarization and the membrane's 
return to resting state. During this period, another action potential is not possible because the membrane 
potential is too low. 
ANSWER:  
refractory 
 period 
126-12-59-04209  
10. In this play, Rosemary Sydney persuades Howard Bevans to skip the title event with her prior to their 
marriage the next morning. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this William Inge play which ends when Madge packs a suitcase and runs off with the drifter 
Hal, a college friend of her presumed fiancé Alan. 
ANSWER:  
Picnic 
[10] William Inge wrote the screenplay for Elia Kazan's  
Splendor in the Grass. 
 Kazan's adaptation of this 
Tennessee Williams play stars Vivien Leigh as Blanche DuBois and Marlon Brando as Stanley Kowalski. 
ANSWER:  
A  Streetcar Named Desire 
[10] In this other Inge play, the alcoholic Doc Delaney goes on a violent rampage in response to the 
hypocritical behavior of his wife Lola, whose dog acts as a surrogate for the baby who died when she chose 
to have it delivered by a midwife. 
ANSWER:  
Come Back, Little Sheba 
014-12-59-04210  
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  9 of 12 
11. Answer the following about animals within psychological experimentation, for 10 points each. 
[10] This behaviorist proposed a pigeon-guided missile during World War II. He is more famous for 
developing an air crib and his namesake box, also known as an “operant conditioning chamber.” 
ANSWER: Burrhus Frederic  
Skinner 
[10] This psychologist performed many experiments with monkeys, such as having them raised by a 
surrogate terrycloth mother, or testing isolation by placing them in the “pit of despair.” 
ANSWER: Harry Frederick  
Harlow 
 [or Harry  
Israel 
] 
[10] In this Canadian experiment, Bruce Alexander placed test animals into the title location, which was 
spacious and filled with toys. He found most of the animals chose regular water over water laced with 
morphine, supporting his point that people choose drugs because of terrible living conditions. 
ANSWER:  
Rat park 
 study 
052-12-59-04211  
12. He won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1998. For 10 points each: 
[10] What atheist author’s works include  
Death with Interruptions 
 and  
Cain 
? 
ANSWER: Jose  
Saramago 
[10] The Doctor’s Wife is the only character not afflicted with the title epidemic in what most famous 
Saramago novel? 
ANSWER:  
Blindness 
 [or  
Ensaio Sobre a Cegueira 
; or  
Essay on Blindness 
] 
[10] This other Saramago novel is a controversial retelling of early Christianity in which the title character 
is depicted living with Mary Magdalene and having second thoughts about the crucifixion. 
ANSWER:  
The  Gospel According to Jesus Christ 
 [or  
O  Evangelho Segundo Jesus Cristo 
] 
147-12-59-04212  
13. This man names a space that is complete and has an inner product. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German mathematician, whose namesake program was intended to create a finite, complete 
and consistent set of axioms that would serve as a foundation for all mathematics. 
ANSWER: David  
Hilbert 
[10] Hilbert's program was proven infeasible in the incompleteness theorems of this man, who showed any 
theory elaborate enough to allow basic arithmetic could not be both complete and consistent. 
ANSWER: Kurt  
Gödel 
[10] The converse of completeness in logic is this property. Because first-order logic has this property, any 
sentence that can be deduced from a set of sentences is logically implied by those sentences. 
ANSWER:  
sound 
ness 
121-12-59-04213  
14. Candidates for this position must receive nominations from at least five hundred elected officials; a 
2000 referendum cut its term from seven years to five. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this office, which was won by François Hollande in 2012. 
ANSWER:  
President of France 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
[10] Hollande is a member of this political party. Sarkozy defeated its nominee, Ségolène Royal, in runoffs 
in 2007 to win the election. 
ANSWER: French  
Socialist 
 Party [or Parti  
socialiste 
] 
[10] Sarkozy became the first president to serve only one term since this man, president from 1974 to 1981. 
More recently, this man was the head of the Convention on the Future of Europe, which created a draft for 
the European Constitution that failed to be ratified in 2004. 
ANSWER: Valéry  
Giscard 
 d'Estaing 
121-12-59-04214  
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  10 of 12 
15. This figure's brother, Menoetius, was banished to Tartarus after being struck by Zeus's lightning. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this son of Iapetus who was tasked with assigning an attribute to every animal but forgot to give 
one to man. 
ANSWER:  
Epimetheus 
[10] Epimetheus accepted this wife from Zeus, who was left with only hope after releasing all the evils into 
the world by opening her namesake box. 
ANSWER:  
Pandora 
[10] This son of Deucalion and grandson of Pandora was the ancestor of all Greeks. His son Aeolus was the 
ancestor of the Aeolians, and his son Dorus was the ancestor of the Dorians. 
ANSWER:  
Hellen 
079-12-59-04215  
16. Answer the following about a river known as the Shatt-al-Arab, for 10 points each. 
[10] The Shatt-al-Arab is in this country’s southeast, on the Persian Gulf. This country’s cities include 
Fallujah and Tikrit, and its capital had an occupied “Green Zone” starting in 2003. 
ANSWER:  
Iraq 
[10] This is Iraq’s largest city along the Shatt-al-Arab. This city near Kuwait is home to the South Oil 
company, and its residents saw heavy fighting during the 2003 invasion. 
ANSWER:  
Basra 
[10] These tribes lived on artificial islands made of reeds and piloted boats called  
mashoof 
 until Saddam 
Hussein drained their traditional habitat in 1991. As the area recovers, they’re returning to their old ways. 
ANSWER:  
Marsh Arab 
s [or  
Arab al-Ahwar 
; or  
Ma’dan 
; or  
Madi 
] 
104-12-59-04216  
17. Centered at cities such as Sidon and Byblos, this civilization used galleys to trade along much of the 
Mediterranean Coast. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this early civilization famed for its early alphabet and purple dye. 
ANSWER:  
Phoenicia 
ns 
[10] The color of the Phoenician dye was sometimes named for this city, which Alexander the Great 
besieged in 332 BC with the help of a giant causeway. 
ANSWER:  
Tyre 
 [or  
Sur 
; or  
Tyrus 
; or  
Zor 
] 
[10] In 314 BC, this man also besieged Tyre. He and his son Demetrius were later defeated at Ipsus. 
ANSWER:  
Antigonus 
 the One-Eyed [or  
Antigonos 
 Monophthalmos] 
015-12-59-04217  
18. Some of his early works were written under the pseudonym Jonathan Oldstyle. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who included “Adventure of the German Student” in his short story collection  
Tales of 
a Traveller. 
ANSWER: Washington  
Irving 
[10] Irving also wrote this story about a man who misses the American Revolution when he sleeps for 
twenty years in the Catskills. 
ANSWER: “ 
Rip Van Winkle 
” 
[10] In “Rip Van Winkle,” Rip realizes later that the men he saw playing ninepins in the mountains are 
companions of this historical figure. 
ANSWER: Hendrick  
Hudson 
 [or Henry  
Hudson 
] 
014-12-59-04218  
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  11 of 12 
19. Answer these questions about the lanthanide contraction for 10 points each. 
[10] The lanthanide contraction refers to the decrease in the ionic form of this quantity, which is typically 
measured in picometers or angstroms. 
ANSWER:  
radius 
[10] The lanthanides are the first elements to have electrons in this atomic orbital with azimuthal quantum 
number 3. 
ANSWER:   orbital 
f 
[10] The lanthanide contraction occurs because electrons in an f orbital do a poor job of carrying out this 
phenomenon, in which electrons screen out other electrons from feeling the full force of the nucleus. 
ANSWER: nuclear  
shielding 
064-12-59-04219  
20. The first shots in this battle were fired near the Old Kennett Meetinghouse, a location owned by 
Quakers. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this battle in which the losing side's left wing was crushed by Wilhelm von Knyphausen's force 
at Chadds Ford. Nathanael Greene's division managed to hold off the victors long enough for a successful 
retreat. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Brandywine 
 Creek 
[10] The Battle of Brandywine was a victory for William Howe as part of his successful campaign to take 
this Pennsylvania city, which was the seat of the Second Continental Congress. 
ANSWER:  
Philadelphia 
[10] One member of this Pennsylvania family was a minister who served as a brigadier general under 
Greene at Brandywine. Another member of this family was the first Speaker of the House. 
ANSWER:  
Muhlenberg 
 [or Peter  
Muhlenberg 
; or Frederick  
Muhlenberg 
] 
052-12-59-04220  
21. Gail Halvorsen dropped candy in miniature parachutes during this operation. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1948 aid mission codenamed \"Operation Vittles.\" 
ANSWER:  
Berlin Airlift 
[10] \"Tonnage\" Turner revamped the logistics of the airlift after a C-54 airplane crashed on a day given this 
name. The machinations of James Fisk and Jay Gould brought about another event of this name. 
ANSWER: \" 
Black Friday 
\" 
[10] This American general in charge of the U.S. occupied zone in Germany gave the order to begin the 
Berlin Airlift. 
ANSWER: Lucius DuBignon  
Clay 
105-12-59-04221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 4     Page  12 of 12 
