Tournament 32 
Round 8 
Tossups 
1.  
This man analyzed a van Gogh painting of a pair of peasant shoes in his book  The Origin of the 
Work of Art . He argued for the reorganization of the university according to the Fuhrerprinzip in his 
infamous address “The Self-Assertion of the German University.” In one of this man’s works, he 
claimed that humans should be viewed in terms of (*) 
 “being there” or Dasein (DAH-sine). For 10 
points, name this German philosopher who was discredited by his enthusiasm for the Nazi Party after he 
wrote the existentialist classic  
Being and Time 
. 
ANSWER: Martin  
Heidegger 
030-12-69-08101 
2.  
Lithotypes of this material include clarain and durain. Cannel is a non-banded type of this 
material. Vitrinite, liptinite and inertinite are three maceral groups found in this material. Heating 
this material in the absence of air can create coke. Ranks of this material include (*) 
 bituminous and 
anthracite and the precursor to this material's formation is peat. For 10 points, identify this combustible 
material composed primarily of carbon. 
ANSWER:  
coal 
066-12-69-08102 
3.  
This composer’s seventh symphony has only one movement. This composer describes an old 
woman dancing with death as part of his incidental music to his brother-in-law’s play  Kuolema , titled 
“Valse Triste.” An English horn plays the solo part in his (*) 
Swan of Tuonela 
, a movement from his  
Lemminkainen Suite 
. This composer’s most famous work was initially titled “Impromptu” due to Russian 
censorship of its strident nationalism. For 10 points, name the composer of  
Finlandia 
. 
ANSWER: Jean  
Sibelius 
140-12-69-08103 
4.  
The title figure of one of this man's works was aggrieved when his infant twins died after drinking 
fevered milk. That figure created by this man dies after a fall from a spire. In addition to writing 
about Halvard Solness, this man created a work in which George (*) 
 Tesman's wife commits suicide. 
He also wrote about Krogstad seeking to blackmail the wife of Torvald over an old loan. For 10 points, 
identify this author of  
The Master Builder, Hedda Gabler, 
   and  
A Doll House. 
ANSWER: Henrik  
Ibsen 
 [or Henrik Johan  
Ibsen 
] 
189-12-69-08104 
5.  
The female lead in this film has a dream in which she violently shakes a chain-link fence while 
watching children on a playground. The substitution of the name Wolfy for the dog Max in a phone 
conversation reveals the deaths of the foster parents Janelle and Todd. The hero of this film delivers 
the famous line, (*) 
 “Hasta la vista, baby,” before shattering the antagonist. For 10 points, name this film 
in which the liquid metal T-1000 tries to assassinate John Connor, the second James Cameron film starring 
Arnold Schwarzenegger as the title robot. 
ANSWER:  
Terminator 2 : Judgment Day 
 [do not accept “The Terminator”] 
014-12-69-08105 
Tournament 32     8     Page  1 of 11 
6.  
One group adopting this adjective used the trunk of a Renault to hide the body of Prime Minister 
Aldo Moro, whom they shot in 1978 during the \"Years of Lead.\" Another group adopting this 
adjective fought at Milazzo and Volturnus as part of the (*) 
 Expedition of the Thousand, which brought 
the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies into Victor Emmanuel II's unified Italy. For 10 points, name this adjective 
describing leftist terrorist \"Brigades\" and the shirts of Giuseppe Garibaldi's men, the official color of the 
Italian Communist Party. 
ANSWER:  
red 
 [or  
rosso 
; or  
Red 
 Brigades; or  
Red 
shirts; or Camicie  
rosse 
; or Giubbe  
rosse 
; or Brigate  
Rosse 
] 
104-12-69-08106 
7.  
In a self-portrait, this man holds grapes and wears a laurel crown while suffering from jaundice. 
This painter of  Sick Bacchus  depicted a prominent horse standing over a fallen man reaching his 
arms into the air in his  The Conversion of St. Paul.  In this man's most famous work, two gamblers 
ignore the light from a window falling on a (*) 
 tax collector the instant that Jesus picks him to be an 
apostle. For 10 points, name this Italian baroque painter who used chiaroscuro in such works as  
The Calling 
of St. Matthew 
. 
ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi da  
Caravaggio 
105-12-69-08107 
8.  
One copy of this document was preserved in Mourt's Relation. The signers of this document were 
named in a work by Nathaniel Morton, the nephew of one of the writers of this document. This work 
was signed in Provincetown Harbor, and begins by acknowledging the sovereignty of James I. 
Forty-one male (*) 
 passengers signed this document, which William Bradford transcribed in his  
Of 
Plymouth Plantation. 
 For 10 points, identify this document named after the ship that brought the Pilgrims 
to the New World. 
ANSWER:  
Mayflower Compact 
192-12-69-08108 
9.  
Maple syrup urine disease is caused by the inability to metabolized branched ones. They can be 
classified into glucogenic or ketogenic based on metabolic properties. These chemicals, which include 
carnitine and taurine, almost exclusively occur in the L configuration. They have both (*) 
 three-letter 
and one-letter designations, and are brought to the ribosome by tRNA able to bind to the right codon during 
translation. For 10 points, name these building blocks of proteins. 
ANSWER:  
amino acid 
048-12-69-08109 
10.  
This author wrote a short story in which a successful operator of laundries reunites with Judy 
Jones. He compared himself to a broken plate in his autobiographical \"The Crack-Up.\" This author 
of “Winter Dreams” created the Hollywood mogul Monroe Stahr in his last novel. He described an 
alcoholic psychiatrist who marries his patient in (*) 
Tender Is the Night 
 and chronicled the 1920s in 
such short story collections as  
Babylon Revisited 
 and  
Tales of the Jazz Age. 
 For 10 points, name this author 
who created West Egg resident Nick Carraway in  
The Great Gatsby. 
ANSWER: F. Scott  
Fitzgerald 
 [or Francis Scott Key  
Fitzgerald 
] 
019-12-69-08110 
Tournament 32     8     Page  2 of 11 
11.  
This hero's hair was of three colors, and he had seven fingers on each hand and seven toes on 
each foot. This man assaulted Forgall's palace to take his wife Emer after returning from his training 
with the warrior-woman Scathach (SKA-tak). In the  Tain , he singlehandedly drives back the army of 
Queen Medb (MAYV), thus foiling the Cattle Raid of Cooley. Though originally named Setanta, this 
wielder of the (*) 
 Gae Bulg took a different name after he killed and personally replaced the guard dog of 
a smith. For 10 points, name this berserk warrior from Ulster in Celtic myth. 
ANSWER:  
Cuchulainn 
 (koo-HOO-lin) [or  
Setanta 
 before it is read] 
080-12-69-08111 
12.  
In a coordinate system named for this object, the volume can be found by integrating with respect 
to rho d rho d phi d z. That coordinate system adds a height z to the polar coordinate system. This 
shape, not a disc, is used when finding the volume of a solid of revolution with the (*) 
 shell method. 
The volume of this object is equal to pi times radius squared times height. For 10 points, name this solid 
with two connected circular faces that lie on an axis. 
ANSWER:  
cylinder 
066-12-69-08112 
13.  
Foreign visitors are often told that this country operates on \"rubber time,\" illustrating the 
relaxed approach to day-to-day activities. This country is home to a form of shadow puppet theater 
known as wayang kulit and a traditional musical ensemble known as gamelan. This country is home 
to the Borobudur stupa. This most populous (*) 
 Muslim majority country includes the \"spice islands,\" or 
Moluccas, as well as Bali and Sumatra. For 10 points, name this country, most of whose inhabitants live on 
the island of Java. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Indonesia 
 [or Republik  
Indonesia 
] 
020-12-69-08113 
14.  
This man’s bizarre foray into architecture-inspired literature resulted in his  Poem of the Right 
Angle.  This man designed several gigantic \"open hand\" sculptures. This man collaborated with 
Oscar Niemeyer on the UN Headquarters in New York and outlined his \"five points\" in the tract (*) 
Towards a New Architecture. 
 He created many buildings in the planned city of Chandigarh in India and 
exemplified the International Style with a house he built on the outskirts of Paris. For 10 points, name this 
French architect of the Villa Savoye. 
ANSWER:  
Le Corbusier 
 [accept Charles-Edouard  
Jeanneret 
] 
141-12-69-08114 
15.  
This language’s front high vowel can be written in subscript under other vowels. This language’s 
conjugations allow for aorist optative verbs, and it uses a backwards apostrophe to mark an added h 
sound before a vowel, known as “rough breathing.” Its simple (*) 
koine 
 dialect was used to write the 
New Testament, and its older dialects include Attic. For 10 points, name this ancient language whose older 
Ionic form was used to write the Homeric epics. 
ANSWER: Ancient  
Greek 
 [or  
Hellenike 
] 
104-12-69-08115 
16.  
One of this author's characters abandons his wife to marry the dancer Warda after he falls in 
love with a singer named Margaret. A restaurant owner named Tarzan appears in this man's novel 
about Said (sie-EED),  The Thief and the Dogs.  This man created the disillusioned (*) 
 Kamal, the 
youngest son of Amina and Ahmad Abd al-Jawad, who are important figures in the family central to his 
novels  
Sugar Street, Palace of Desire, 
   and  
Palace Walk. 
 For 10 points, name this Egyptian author who 
wrote  
The Cairo Trilogy. 
ANSWER: Naguib  
Mahfouz 
 [or Najib  
Mahfuz 
] 
192-12-69-08116 
Tournament 32     8     Page  3 of 11 
17.  
This king's coronation was marred by a massacre of Jews, but he punished those responsible 
before leaving on a campaign in which he helped Phillip Augustus besiege Tyre. This king was killed 
by an arrow fired from the castle of Chalus. After the death of his father, (*) 
 Henry II, this 
later-prisoner of Leopold V of Austria led the English forces in the Third Crusade. For 10 points, identify 
this brother of King John, renowned for his bravery. 
ANSWER:  
Richard I 
 of England [or  
Richard the Lionheart 
ed; or  
Richard Couer de Lion 
; prompt on  
Richard 
] 
195-12-69-08117 
18.  
This equation can be used to describe the boundaries between different sections of a Pourbaix 
(poor-BAY) diagram. This equation was generalized to multiple ion species by Goldman. A factor of 
temperature times the ideal gas constant divided by (*) 
 Faraday’s constant times the number of 
electrons transferred appears in this equation, where it is multiplied by the natural logarithm of the reaction 
quotient. For 10 points, name this equation used to determine the reduction potential of a half-cell. 
ANSWER:  
Nernst 
 equation 
127-12-69-08118 
19.  
This novelist translated David Strauss’s  The Life of Jesus Critically Examined  and Ludwig 
Feuerbach’s  The Essence of Christianity. The Key to All Mythologies    is a work written by Edward 
Casaubon, a character in a novel by this author in which he marries (*) 
 Dorothea Brooke. In another 
novel by this author, the body of Dunstan Cass is found clutching the title character’s gold at the bottom of 
a quarry. For 10 points, name this female British author of  
Middlemarch 
 and  
Silas Marner. 
ANSWER: George  
Eliot 
 [or Mary Ann  
Evans 
] 
030-12-69-08119 
20.  
This leader sent William Vans Murray to negotiate the Treaty of Mortefontaine. This man 
defended Thomas Preston in court despite his outrage at the Boston Massacre. This man appointed 
the \"midnight judges\" as President, in which role he oversaw the Quasi-War with France and 
pushed for the (*) 
 Alien and Sedition Acts before his Vice President's Democratic-Republicans swept him 
out of office. For 10 points, name this last Federalist President, a Massachusetts man whose son was also 
President. 
ANSWER: John  
Adams 
104-12-69-08120 
21.  
Inelastic scattering of these particles by a free charged particle is known as Compton scattering. 
An electron and positron are created from these particles in pair production. The momentum of this 
particle is the quotient of Planck’s constant and wavelength. The energy of this particle can be 
expressed as the product of Planck's constant and frequency, and it (*) 
 mediates the electromagnetic 
force. For 10 points, identify this massless particle which is the quantum of light. 
ANSWER:  
photon 
s 
189-12-69-08121 
22.  
Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger wrote a manual for identifying these people called the  
Malleus Maleficarum . In England, Matthew Hopkins attempted to find these people by poking at skin 
deformities. Another common test for them involved (*) 
 plunging a person accused of being one into the 
water to see if he or she floated, symbolizing a rejection of baptism. For 10 points, identify these people 
accused during a mania in sixteenth century Europe, who were also subject to trials in Salem, 
Massachusetts. 
ANSWER: people accused of being  
witch 
es [accept equivalent answers] 
019-12-69-08122 
Tournament 32     8     Page  4 of 11 
23.  
While in Ossenburger Hall, this character is annoyed by Ackley, who constantly picks at at his 
acne. He later admits that there is no “nice and peaceful place” where people will not write profane 
graffiti under his nose. This character asks “Where do the ducks go in the winter?” to a cab driver 
and is beaten by a (*) 
 pimp named Maurice. This boy finds his sister Phoebe after leaving Pencey Prep 
and calls many adults “phonies” in his journeys around New York. For 10 points, name this 
sixteen-year-old narrator of J. D. Salinger’s  
The Catcher in the Rye. 
ANSWER:  
Holden 
 Caulfield [or Holden  
Caulfield 
] 
104-12-69-08123 
Tournament 32     8     Page  5 of 11 
Tournament 32 
Round 8 
Bonuses 
1. Answer some questions about simple harmonic oscillators. For 10 points each: 
[10] For a simple harmonic oscillator, the maximum displacement, or greatest distance from the 
equilibrium point, is this quantity. It is symbolized A. 
ANSWER:  
amplitude 
[10] This example of a simple harmonic oscillator comes in a variety named for Leon Foucault. Problems 
involving these systems can be simplified using the small-angle approximation. 
ANSWER:  
pendulum 
s 
[10] This value for a simple harmonic oscillator is proportional to the square root of stiffness over mass. 
The maximum velocity of a simple harmonic oscillator is proportional to this quantity and amplitude. 
ANSWER:  
frequency 
 [prompt on  ] 
f 
189-12-69-08201  
2. This condition is maintained by high barriers to entry. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this economic condition in which only one firm sells a given product with no competition. 
ANSWER:  
monopoly 
[10] Monopolies have sufficient market power to enact this policy of selling identical goods to different 
consumers at different rates. 
ANSWER:  
price discrimination 
[10] This type of economic inefficiency can also occur in a monopoly. This phenomenon is the loss in 
utility to consumers when a monopoly prices its goods higher than it would in a competitive environment. 
ANSWER:  
deadweight loss 
080-12-69-08202  
3. Name some visionary Catholic saints, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Italian saint claimed to have had a “mystical marriage” with Jesus Christ. She convinced Gregory 
XI to move the Papacy from Avignon back to Rome and shares her name with a saint from Alexandria who 
was tortured on a namesake wheel. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Catherine 
 of Siena [or Caterina  
Benincasa 
] 
[10] This saint claimed that Saints Margaret, Catherine, and Michael instructed her to chase the English out 
of France in the Hundred Years’ War. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Joan 
 of Arc [or  
Jeanne 
 d’Arc] 
[10] Visions inspired this Spanish nobleman to write the  
Spiritual Exercises, 
 and to seek Papal approval for 
the order he founded, the Jesuits. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Ignatius 
 of Loyola [or  
Ignacio 
] 
191-12-69-08203  
Tournament 32     8     Page  6 of 11 
4. This author wrote about the destruction of the last Neanderthals in  
The Inheritors. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this British author who also wrote a work in which a conch shell blown by one character 
represents civilization. That work by this author includes the characters Simon and Piggy. 
ANSWER: William  
Golding 
 [or William Gerald  
Golding 
] 
[10] This is the aforementioned work about the instability among a group of boys stranded on an island. In 
this novel, Ralph feuds with Jack. 
ANSWER:  
Lord of the Flies 
[10] This item, originally owned by Piggy, is used by the boys in  
Lord of the Flies 
 to start a fire. Jack's 
followers later steal this item. 
ANSWER: a pair of  
glasses 
189-12-69-08204  
5. Name these ancient Greek city-states, for 10 points each. 
[10] This city always had two lines of kings, the Agiads and the Eurypontids, and put all males through the 
rigorous military training regimen known as the agoge (ah-GO-jay). 
ANSWER:  
Sparta 
 [or  
Lacedaemon 
] 
[10] In the seventh century BCE, this city's Bacchiad oligarchy was overthrown by Cypselus, who, along 
with his son Periander, exploited its strategic location at the center of trade routes. 
ANSWER:  
Corinth 
 [or  
Korinthos 
] 
[10] This onetime Corinthian colony on the island of Sicily was ruled by tyrants such as Dionysus II, who 
invited Plato to reside at his court. 
ANSWER:  
Syracuse 
 [or  
Siracusa 
] 
019-12-69-08205  
6. The Swedish government supported its sterilization of over 60,000 people with the theories from this 
field of study. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this field, which acquired its name in Francis Galton's  
Inquiries into Human Faculty and its 
Development. 
ANSWER:  
eugenics 
[10] Galton was a cousin of this author of  
The Origin of Species. 
 This man's voyage on the  
Beagle 
 gave 
him the evidence for his theory of natural selection. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Darwin 
[10] Galton also defined and found a way to measure this quantity, which measures the degree to which one 
variable changes with another. A value close to one or negative one for this quantity may suggest, but does 
not imply, causation. 
ANSWER:  
correlation 
121-12-69-08206  
7. This work was used in a Michael Fokine-choreographed ballet that was written for Anna Pavlova. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this penultimate section of a Camille Saint-Saens work that is written for two pianos and a solo 
cello, which represents the title bird gracefully gliding on the water. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Swan 
\" [or \"Le  
cygne 
\"] 
[10] \"The Swan\" was the only part of this aforementioned work that Saint-Saens allowed to be played in his 
lifetime. This work contains sections such as \"Tortoises\" and \"The Elephant.\" 
ANSWER:  
The  Carnival of the Animals 
 [or  
Le  carnaval des animaux 
] 
[10] Saint-Saens's third symphony has a nickname featuring this instrument, which is used in two of its four 
movements. Dietrich Buxtehude was a notable player of it. 
ANSWER: pipe  
organ 
192-12-69-08207  
Tournament 32     8     Page  7 of 11 
8. This disorder is caused by structural defects in the brain which allow large collections of neurons to fire 
in sync with each other, causing convulsions. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this neurological disorder, in which patients have unprovoked seizures. 
ANSWER:  
epilepsy 
[10] This technique is used to help diagnose epilepsy. In it, the patient has several suction cups stuck to 
their head, which reads their neural oscillations. 
ANSWER:  
EEG 
 [or  
electroencephalogram 
] 
[10] This unusual type of seizure lasts for a few minutes. The sufferer appears to drift off and stare at 
nothing, often in the middle of a sentence. 
ANSWER:  
absence 
 seizure 
048-12-69-08208  
9. This phrase was used in a sentence regarding \"evils that the United States Congress has the right to 
prevent\" in a case about a Socialist Party member distributing leaflets against the draft during World War I. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this four-word phrase that names a test for restricting speech, which the Supreme Court started 
using in  
Schenck v. U.S. 
 alongside the \"bad tendency\" test. 
ANSWER: \" 
clear and present danger 
\" 
[10] The phrase \"clear and present danger\" was coined by this Justice. The son of a noted poet, he spent 
thirty years on the court, often writing eloquent dissents. 
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell  
Holmes 
, Jr. 
[10] Also in  
Schenck 
, Holmes coined a metaphor for dangerous speech, referring to a hypothetical person 
who \"falsely shouts 'fire'\" in a crowded one of these places. 
ANSWER:  
theater 
s 
019-12-69-08209  
10. The alcoholic Simon Stimson directs a choir in this play. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play set in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire, which sees George Gibbs and Emily Webb 
grow up together and eventually get married. 
ANSWER:  
Our Town 
[10]  
Our Town 
 is a play by this writer, who wrote about five people dying on the title structure in  
The 
Bridge of San Luis Rey. 
ANSWER: Thorton  
Wilder 
 [or Thornton Niven  
Wilder 
] 
[10] This character from  
The Bridge of San Luis Rey 
 investigates the deaths and attempts to determine their 
cause. His published work is proclaimed heresy and he is eventually burned at the stake. 
ANSWER: Brother  
Juniper 
192-12-69-08210  
11. Identify some Japanese art forms, for 10 points each. 
[10] This art form was used by Sadako Sasaki, a girl who fell short of her attempt to wish away her 
leukemia by folding one thousand cranes. 
ANSWER:  
origami 
[10] A Buddhist ritual honoring the dead morphed into this art form, the arrangement of several flowers in 
a single container. 
ANSWER:  
ikebana 
[10] A less common version of this ritual uses sencha. This ritual occurs in special purpose tatami-floored 
rooms. 
ANSWER:  
tea 
 ceremony [or synonyms for ceremony; or  
chanoyu 
; or  
chado 
; or  
sado 
; or  
otemae 
; or  
chakai 
; or  
chaji 
] 
020-12-69-08211  
Tournament 32     8     Page  8 of 11 
12. Name some characters from Homer's  
Odyssey 
 for 10 points each: 
[10] This wife of Odysseus stays faithful to him during his twenty-year absence, staving off her many 
suitors by unweaving Laertes's shroud every night. 
ANSWER:  
Penelope 
[10] At the beginning of the  
Odyssey 
, Odysseus is trapped on the island of this sea nymph. Zeus sends 
Hermes to tell her to let Odysseus go. 
ANSWER:  
Calypso 
[10] After their encounter with Aeolus, Odysseus and his men find themselves in Telepylus, the city of this 
race of giant cannibals who destroy several of their ships with huge rocks. 
ANSWER:  
Laestrygonian 
s (less-truh-GO-nee-inz) [or  
Laestrygone 
s; accept equivalent translations] 
196-12-69-08212  
13. In this novel, Sobakevitch asks for an exorbitant amount of money in exchange for the title entities. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this work in which Chichikov purchases the title serfs from their landowners in order to exploit 
a loophole in the Russian tax system. 
ANSWER:  
Dead Souls 
 [or  
Myortvyje Dushi 
] 
[10]  
Dead Souls 
 is a work by this Russian author of  
Taras Bulba 
 and  
The Inspector-General. 
ANSWER: Nikolai  
Gogol 
[10] Gogol wrote a work about one of these objects \"of a Madman.\" A notable work of this type was 
written by Samuel Pepys. 
ANSWER:  
diary 
192-12-69-08213  
14. Answer these questions about Britain's experience as the first nation to undergo the Industrial 
Revolution, for 10 points each. 
[10] James Watt added a \"condenser\" to perfect these coal-fired devices in late eighteenth-century Britain. 
They allowed factories to be built without using riverside water-wheels for power. 
ANSWER:  
steam engine 
s 
[10] In the 1810s, this movement of former lace workers broke mechanical loom equipment to express their 
anger at being left unemployed by industrial advances. 
ANSWER:  
Luddite 
s [or  
Luddism 
] 
[10] Joseph Paxton designed this London building to house several industrial triumphs during the Great 
Exhibition of 1851. 
ANSWER:  
Crystal Palace 
104-12-69-08214  
15. This region’s tourist attractions include the wildlife reserve on Valdes Peninsula and the Perito Moreno 
glacier, which looks blue due to oxygen trapped in the ice. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this region which includes one country’s Chubut and Rio Negro provinces. Its tall Tehuelche 
people were thought to be giants by European explorers. 
ANSWER:  
Patagonia 
[10] Most of Patagonia is in this second-largest South American country, whose population included many 
Nazis in hiding. 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
 [or  
Argentine 
 Republic; or Republica  
Argentina 
] 
[10] North of Patagonia, the Argentine  
pampas 
 are home to these herdsmen, who are idolized in South 
American fiction much like the US’s cowboys. 
ANSWER:  
gaucho 
s 
104-12-69-08215  
Tournament 32     8     Page  9 of 11 
16. This character agrees to marry Marcellina if he defaults on his debts. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who weds Susanna and, in another opera, aids his master Count Almaviva in 
marrying Rosina. 
ANSWER:  
Figaro 
 [or the  
barber of Seville 
] 
[10] Figaro first appears in  
The Barber of Seville 
, which was composed by this Italian, also famous for the 
overture to  
William Tell 
. 
ANSWER: Gioachino Antonio  
Rossini 
[10] Both Rossini's  
Barber of Seville 
 and Mozart's  
The Marriage of Figaro 
 fall into this genre of comic 
opera, contrasted with opera seria. 
ANSWER:  
opera buffa 
 [or  
opera buffe 
; or  
opera buffo 
] 
020-12-69-08216  
17. Polar aprotic ones like tetrahydrofuran and dimethylformamide are commonly used when conducting 
SN2 reactions, and they are broadly classified as polar and nonpolar. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these substances, into which a solute is dissolved. Water is often considered a “universal” one. 
ANSWER:  
solvent 
[10] According to the solubility rules, all halides of this metal are insoluble. Its nitrate is used in 
photography, and this metal also forms a namesake mirror as part of Tollens’ reagent when reacted with an 
aldehyde. 
ANSWER:  
silver 
 or  
Ag 
[10] A common nonpolar solvent consists of a mix of isomers of this alkane, which gets its name from the 
fact it has six carbon atoms. It has formula C6H14, and its cyclized form has chair confirmations. 
ANSWER:  
hexane 
048-12-69-08217  
18. He takes interest in an unfortunate sailor who abandoned the  
Patna 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who befriends the title character in  
Lord Jim 
 and narrates most of the novel. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Marlow 
[10] This author wrote  
Lord Jim 
 as well as  
Nostromo 
 and “The Secret Sharer.” 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Conrad 
 [or Józef Teodor  
Konrad 
 Korzeniowsk] 
[10] Conrad was a great admirer of this American novelist of  
Daisy Miller 
 and  
The Turn of the Screw. 
ANSWER: Henry  
James 
196-12-69-08218  
19. The first translator of these objects into English, James Prinsep, equated their importance to that of the 
Ten Commandments. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these objects scattered throughout South Asia that relate subjects such as Ashoka's remorse at 
conquering Kalinga or his exposition of the word  
dhamma 
. 
ANSWER:  
Edicts 
 of Ashoka [or Rock  
Edicts 
; or Pillar  
Edicts 
] 
[10] The Edicts were spread during the third century BCE by Ashoka, a ruler from this Indian empire 
founded by Chandragupta and centered at Pataliputra. 
ANSWER:  
Maurya 
n Empire 
[10] Chandragupta started the Mauryan Dynasty shortly after the death of this figure, who invaded India 
from the northwest in 327 BCE. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander the Great 
 [or  
Alexander III 
 of Macedonia; prompt on  
Alexander 
] 
192-12-69-08219  
Tournament 32     8     Page  10 of 11 
20. Lesser-known members of this movement included the creator of the  
Merzbau 
, Kurt Schwitters. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this 20th century artistic movement championed by Marcel Duchamp, which satirized high 
culture and took a name meaning \"hobbyhorse.\" 
ANSWER:  
Dada 
[10] Duchamp coined this term for works like  
Fountain 
 and  
Bicycle Wheel 
, which were common objects 
like urinals that he made into sculptures. 
ANSWER:  
readymade 
s 
[10] This \"hilarious\" Duchamp work allegedly depicts a sexual encounter between the first title character 
and the nine \"malic molds\", all wedged between two fractured sheets of glass. 
ANSWER:  
The  Bride Stripped Bare by her Bachelors, Even 
 [or  
La  Mariee Mise a nu par su Celibataires, 
Meme 
; or  
The  Large Glass 
; or  
La  Grand Verre 
] 
080-12-69-08220  
21. Carl Friedrich Gauss treated these numbers as points on a plane, with addition and multiplication 
equivalent to translation and rotation. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this set of numbers, which consist of real and imaginary parts. 
ANSWER:  
complex 
 numbers [do not accept “imaginary numbers”] 
[10] The square root of the product of a complex number and its conjugate gives this value. On the 
complex plane, this value is the distance from the number and the origin. 
ANSWER:  
absolute value 
 [or  
magnitude 
; or  
modulus 
] 
[10] This theorem states that for every constant polynomial with complex coefficients, there is at least one 
complex root. 
ANSWER:  
fundamental theorem of algebra 
121-12-69-08221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
Tournament 32     8     Page  11 of 11 
