This is page 1 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2015  
Round 8  
First Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. A ruler of these people used a weapon that was dug up by a herdsman and called the Sword of  
Mars by the chronicler Priscus. The Hephthalite (HEF-thuh-lite) empire was founded by the  
“White” branch of these people. These people were defeated by Flavius Aetius (eye-EE-tee-us)  
on the Catalaunian plain in the Battle of Chalons (shuh-LAHN). A king of these people killed his  
brother Bleda, allegedly died of a nosebleed, and was turned back on a campaign by Leo I. For  
10 points, name this tribe once led by the “Scourge of God,” Attila.  
ANSWER:  Hun s [or  Hun nic people; or  Xiongnu ]  
2. The Shwedagon (shuh-WED-uh-gon) Pagoda in Burma is covered in this substance. A  
landmark named for this substance in Amritsar (AHM-reet-sahr) was the target of Operation  
Blue Star, ordered by Indira Gandhi. Mansa Musa donated large amounts of this substance  
during his hajj, deflating its value. A mythical city sought for its abundance of this substance is  
El Dorado. For 10 points, name this metal which led many to travel to the Yukon and California  
on namesake “rushes.”  
ANSWER:  gold   
3. Devices appearing in this novel include earplug radios called Seashells and a stomach- 
pumping device called the “electronic-eyed snake,” which is used after Mildred overdoses on  
sleeping pills. After he quits his job, a character in this novel is tracked by a device that detects  
his sweat called the Mechanical Hound. This dystopian novel centering on Guy Montag begins,  
“It was a pleasure to burn.” For 10 points, name this novel titled after the temperature at which  
paper catches fire, by Ray Bradbury.  
ANSWER:  Fahrenheit 451   
4. Both the electric field inside a conductor and the magnetic flux through a closed surface are  
equal to this value. The sum of voltage around a closed loop equals this value, according to  
Kirchhoff’s loop rule. The work done on an object undergoing centripetal acceleration equals  
this value, since the force acts perpendicularly to the velocity. Once a falling object reaches  
terminal velocity, the net force on the object equals this number. For 10 points, name this  
number that is the electric charge of a neutron and the kinetic energy of an object at rest.  
ANSWER:  zero 
This is page 2 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5. A character in this play nonsensically rambles about the “Acacacacademy of  
Anthropopopometry.” That character in this play is later involved in a hectic hat-switching  
scene. In this play, Lucky is bound to a rope leash held by his master, Pozzo, who goes blind  
between this play’s two acts. The backdrop of this play is a single tree where Vladimir and  
Estragon contemplate suicide as they anticipate the arrival of the title character. For 10 points,  
name this absurdist play by Samuel Beckett.  
ANSWER:  Waiting for Godot   
6. This man was the only player to play on the U.S. basketball team in both the 2000 and 2008  
Summer Olympics. This player holds the record for most career regular season triple-doubles,  
and he won his only NBA championship in 2011, as a member of the Dallas Mavericks. As  
coach of the Brooklyn Nets, this man was fined fifty thousand dollars for forcing a stoppage in  
play by having one of his players knock a cup of soda from his hand. For 10 points, name this  
current coach of the Milwaukee Bucks, a longtime star at point guard for the Nets.  
ANSWER: Jason  Kidd  [Jason Frederick  Kidd ]  
7. The executive order Reorganization Plan No. 3 first proposed this agency, and William D.  
Ruckelshaus was its first administrator. Its Title V (five) operating permits were established in a  
set of 1990 amendments. It administers the WaterSense and EnergyStar programs. Its current  
head, Gina McCarthy, is not part of the Cabinet despite being Cabinet-rank. Massachusetts  
successfully sued this agency, established in 1970, forcing it to regulate greenhouse gases under  
the Clean Air Act. For 10 points, name this executive department that fights pollution.  
ANSWER:  EPA  [or  Environmental Protection Agency ]  
8. Molar heat capacities are usually expressed as prefactors multiplying this quantity. This value  
multiplies temperature in both the van der Waals (VAN dur walz) and virial equations of state. It  
appears in the denominator of the exponential of the Arrhenius (uh-REE-nee-uss) equation. This  
constant is the molar equivalent to Boltzmann’s constant, and, in SI units, it equals 8.314 Joules  
per Kelvin mole. In general, it is the ratio between pressure times volume and number of moles  
times temperature. For 10 points, name this constant symbolized R.  
ANSWER: ideal  gas  constant [or   until it is read]  R 
9. Elites on this island lived in stone-and-thatch houses know as hare paenga (HAH-ray pai-EN- 
guh), and its local tongue is closely related to Mangarevan (mong-guh-RE-vun). In  Collapse ,  
Jared Diamond speculated that this island’s residents resorted to cannibalism after deforesting  
this island. This island, owned by Chile, is home to ocean-facing pedestals known as ahu (AH- 
hoo). For 10 points, name this South Pacific island known to its inhabitants as Rapa Nui (RAH- 
puh NOO-ee), best known for its “moai” (MOE-ai), which are monumental stone heads.  
ANSWER:  Easter  Island [or  Rapa Nui  until it is read; or Isla de  Pascua ] 
This is page 3 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
10. The Wolffian duct degrades in the absence of this hormone during embryogenesis (EMB-ree- 
oh-JEN-uh-siss). This hormone is secreted by Leydig (LAI-dig) cells and loses a carbon when  
aromatase (ah-ROE-muh-tayz) converts it into estradiol (est-ruh-DAI-ol). Increased acne and  
impotence due to hypogonadism can occur after use of drugs that mimic this hormone, such as  
anabolic steroids. This hormone’s increase in puberty corresponds to growth of the Adam’s apple  
and facial hair. For 10 points, name this sex hormone secreted mainly by the testicles.  
ANSWER:  testosterone  
11. This event takes place after a man walks along a street called the Via Dolorosa. During that  
march, a woman named Veronica gave the man at the center of this event a veil to wipe his  
forehead. While this event takes place, a man cries out “My God, my God, why have you  
forsaken me?” and talks to two thieves next to him suffering the same fate. This event occurs  
after a man is asked if he is “King of the Jews” by Pontius Pilate. For 10 points, name this event  
in all four Gospels in which the Son of God is seemingly executed by the Romans.  
ANSWER:  Crucifixion  of Jesus Christ  
12. This function applied to a complex number is also called its modulus or its norm. Though not  
the square, this function of quantity x plus y is always less than or equal to this function of x plus  
this function of y, by the Triangle Inequality. This function can be written as the positive square  
root of the square of a real number, or as a real number times its sign. The graph of this function  
of x forms an upward-facing v. For 10 points, give this function that indicates how far a number  
is from zero.  
ANSWER:  absolute value   
13. This man conducted door-to-door interviews in the Seventh Ward for a book written while an  
“assistant in sociology” at the University of Pennsylvania. He introduced the idea of “double  
consciousness” in another book, which stated “the problem of the twentieth century is the  
problem of the color line.” This author of  The Philadelphia Negro  advocated for the “talented  
tenth” in his criticism of his rival’s Atlanta Compromise. For 10 points, name this co-founder of  
the NAACP who feuded with Booker T. Washington and wrote  The Souls of Black Folk .  
ANSWER: W. E. B.  DuBois  [William Edward Burghardt  DuBois ]  
14. In a painting by this artist, a thin cloud separates St. Thomas holding a girdle over an empty  
tomb from angels playing music as Jesus crowns Mary. The Christ child receives carnations,  
John the Baptist holds a tiny cross, and the Holy Family plays with a goldfinch in some of this  
artist’s many Madonnas. His best known painting is part of the Stanza della Segnatura (STAHN- 
zuh deh-LA sen-YAH-toh-OOR-uh), and has as its centerpiece an upward-pointing Plato next to  
a downward-pointing Aristotle. For 10 points, name this artist of  The School of Athens.     
ANSWER:  Raphael  [or  Raffael lo Sanzio da Urbino] 
This is page 4 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
15. Ernst Beckmann invented the differential type of these devices. In psychrometry, a sock is  
wrapped around the wet-bulb type of these objects. A stir rod and one of these objects are  
inserted through the top of a Styrofoam cup in constant-pressure calorimetry. Galileo’s original  
conception of this device made use of changing density. Alcohol is used in these devices  
nowadays, rather than Daniel Fahrenheit’s original design using mercury. For 10 points, name  
these devices that measure temperature.  
ANSWER:  thermometer s 
This is page 5 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 8  
Directed Round   
1A. Yaroslav the Wise ruled a large federation from what city, which is now the capital of  
Ukraine?  
ANSWER:  Kiev   
1B. What Zynga game, released in 2009, is similar to Scrabble and features 104 letter tiles and a  
different arrangement of bonus squares?  
ANSWER:  Words With Friends   
2A. The fifth revision of what markup language implements a new raster-based feature called  
canvas and makes embedding multimedia easier with its video and audio elements?  
ANSWER: X HTML  [or  HyperText Markup Language ]  
2B. What mood is used to express hypothetical actions such as desires and possibilities, as in the  
Spanish sentence “espero que nieve,” (ess-PAY-roh kay nee-AY-vay) meaning “I hope it  
snows?”  
ANSWER:  subjunctive  mood [or modo  subjuntivo ]  
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. In triangle ABC, point A is at the origin, point B is  
at (6, 3), and point C is at (3, 9). Triangle ADE is similar to triangle ABC, point D is at (-8, 4),  
and point E has a positive y-coordinate. What are the coordinates of point E?  
ANSWER:  (-4, 12)   
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Given that one cubic centimeter equals one  
milliliter, how much water is left in a 500 milliliter water bottle after it is used to completely fill  
up a square pyramidal vase with height 10 centimeters and base side length 6 centimeters?  
ANSWER:  380  milliliters [or  380  cubic centimeters]  
4A. What term describes newly-coined words or expressions that have not yet made it into  
mainstream usage?  
ANSWER:  neologism s [or  neolexia ]  
4B. The Mach number describes the ratio between the velocity of a body and the velocity of  
what phenomenon?  
ANSWER:  sound   
5A. Henry Fleming is the protagonist of what Civil War novel by Stephen Crane?  
ANSWER:  The  Red Badge of Courage 
This is page 6 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5B. What mayor of the District of Columbia was caught on videotape smoking crack cocaine in a  
1990 FBI sting operation?  
ANSWER: Marion  Barry  [Marion Shepilov  Barry , Jr.]  
6A. What is the correlation coefficient if there is perfect negative correlation between two  
variables?  
ANSWER:    -1 
6B. What deformed son of Sycorax (SICK-or-acks) is enslaved by the sorcerer Prospero in  
Shakespeare’s  The Tempest ?  
ANSWER:  Caliban   
7A. Name the region of Czechoslovakia which Germany demanded to annex in 1938, prompting  
the crisis which led to the signing of the Munich Agreement.  
ANSWER:  Sudetenland   
7B. What Catholic British author wrote  The End of the Affair  and  The Power and the Glory ?  
ANSWER: Graham  Greene  [Henry Graham  Greene ]  
8A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all values x on the interval from 0 to 2 pi,  
inclusive, such that 2 sine squared x plus 5 sine x minus 3 equals zero.  
ANSWER:  pi/6 and 5 pi/6  [do not accept answers with more or fewer than two values]  
8B. This is a 30-second calculation question. A polynomial in x has complex roots 3 + 5 i and 3 -  
5 i. What is the polynomial?  
ANSWER:  x squared minus 6 x plus 34   
9A. What Swiss-French architect included the Open Hand Monument in his design for  
Chandigarh (SHAHN-duh-gahr), India, and epitomized the International Style with his Villa  
Savoye (vee-LAH sahv-WAH)?  
ANSWER:  Le Corbusier  [or Charles-Edouard  Jeanneret -Gris]  
9B. Name the organization owned by Richard Branson whose Spaceship Two crashed during a  
test flight over the Mojave (moh-HAH-vay) Desert in October 2014.  
ANSWER:  Virgin  Galactic  
10A. The Hindu deity Shiva kills Kama, the god of love, using what substance represented by  
the two-headed god Agni?  
ANSWER:  fire  [or equivalents such as  flame s]  
10B. What staple crop in tropical areas, also known as manioc (MAN-yoc), comes in a bitter  
variety that must be soaked for days to prevent konzo, a paralytic condition caused by chronic  
cyanide poisoning?  
ANSWER:  cassava 
This is page 7 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 8  
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. A character on this show rents a pirated copy of  The French Lieutenant’s Woman  to make his  
mistress cry. A teenager on this series is mistaken for Sally by her “Aunt Helen.” A family on  
this show is murdered in a hotel room in Alexandria. A character on this show leads a second life  
as Clark in order to collect information from Martha, who works in Stan Beeman’s department in  
the FBI. For 10 points, name this FX show centering on the Jennings, a pair of Cold War-era  
KGB agents secretly living in the U.S.  
ANSWER:  The  Americans   
2. Ketoacidosis (KEE-toh-aa-sid-OH-sis) can induce the Kussmaul (KOO-small) type of this  
activity, which is partly regulated by changes in blood pH and partial pressure. The internal  
intercostals are important in the forced version of this mechanism, which can be measured with a  
spirometer. This process is suspended in apnea. A part of this process marked by relaxation of  
the diaphragm results in the expulsion of carbon dioxide from the airways. For 10 points, name  
this process that includes exhaling air from the lungs.  
ANSWER:  breathing  [or  respiration ; or  ventilation ; or  exhaling  until it is read; or word forms;  
prompt on  inhaling ; prompt on  expiration ; do not accept or prompt on “cellular respiration”]  
3. In February 2014, this man became the oldest pro soccer player in his country, after his  
signing by the Sport Boys. In July 2013, this politician’s plane was grounded in Austria after  
suspicions arose that Edward Snowden was on board. This man dedicated his 2014 re-election to  
Hugo Chavez and Fidel Castro, and began his third term, enabled by a 2009 constitutional  
change. For 10 points, name this politician, the leader of the Movement Toward Socialism, who  
has been the President of Bolivia since 2006.  
ANSWER: Evo  Morales  [Juan Evo  Morales  Ayma]  
4. This composer arranged Baroque melodies by Giovanni Pergolesi for a ballet based on the  
commedia dell’arte (cuh-MAY-dee-uh-del-ART-ey). He used a chord consisting of overlapping  
C major and F sharp major triads in another ballet. A high bassoon solo opens a ballet by this  
composer which ends with the “Sacrificial Dance,” during which a chosen girl dances herself to  
death. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of  Pulcinella  (pull-chin-ELL-uh) and  
Petroushka  (pe-TROOSH-kuh) who caused a riot with the 1913 premiere of  The Rite of Spring.   
ANSWER: Igor  Stravinsky  [or Igor Fyodorovich  Stravinsky ] 
This is page 8 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5. In a novel by this author, Karl Rossman moves to New York; in another of his novels, a land  
surveyor finds himself unable to enter the title building. In a short story by this author, criminals  
have sentences engraved on their backs by a torture machine. This author of the unfinished  
novels  America  and  The Castle  also wrote about the death of Josef K. in  The Trial.  A short story  
by this author begins when Gregor Samsa awakens to find he has transformed into a large insect.  
For 10 points, name this Czech-German author of “The Metamorphosis.”  
ANSWER: Franz  Kafka   
6. In polar coordinates, these objects include the graphs of the functions “r equals cosine of  
theta” and “r equals a” where “a” is a constant; the latter function produces one of these centered  
at the origin. The maximum number of these two-dimensional objects that can touch a central  
one of them is the kissing number. These conic sections are formed when the intersecting plane  
is parallel to the cone’s base, and their eccentricity is zero. If both foci of an ellipse are the same  
point, this special case of an ellipse is formed. For 10 points, name these round shapes.  
ANSWER:  circle s [prompt on  ellipse s until it is read]  
7. This author wrote about an inventor who is killed by his own chess-playing robot in the short  
story “Moxon’s Master.” He defined a lawyer as “one skilled in the circumvention of the law” in  
his satirical  The Devil’s Dictionary.  His most famous story describes the death by hanging of the  
Confederate sympathizer Peyton Farquhar at the title structure. For 10 points, name this  
American author of “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.”  
ANSWER: Ambrose  Bierce   
8. This composer described a traveler that passes by a linden tree promising peace in the fifth  
section of his song cycle  Winterreise  (VIN-tur-eye-suh)  This composer depicted a father  . 
carrying his son home on a horse in the lied (leed) “Erlkonig” (AIRL-kah-nig). He wrote a set of  
variations on the “Die Forelle” (dee fuh-REL) for his piano quintet. This composer died before  
he could complete his eighth symphony. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the  Trout  
Quintet  and the  Unfinished Symphony.   
ANSWER: Franz  Schubert  [Franz Peter  Schubert ]  
9. George Bush allegedly greeted this man with the word “yo” at the 2006 G8 summit. In August  
2004, Adam Price of the Plaid Cymru (PLIDE CAM-ree) announced plans to impeach this  
leader. This politician described Princess Diana as “the people’s princess” during a speech after  
her death. An alleged deal between this man and Gordon Brown allowed him to become his  
party’s leader in 1994. For 10 points, name this British Prime Minister, whose “third way” style  
of governance helped him become the longest-serving Labour Party PM from 1997 to 2007.  
ANSWER: Tony  Blair  [Anthony Charles Lynton  Blair ]  
10. This country’s primary export is electricity from projects such as the Tala (TAH-luh) and  
Chuka (CHOO-kuh) hydropower plants along the Raidak (RAI-dock) River. Its national  
language, Dzongkha (JONG-kuh), is closely related to Sikkimese (sik-im-ESE), and it articulated  
a policy based on Vajrayana (VAHJ-rai-AH-nuh) Buddhism of maximizing “gross national  
happiness” under Jigme Wangchuk (JIG-may WONG-chuk), its Dragon King. For 10 points,  
name this Himalayan monarchy whose capital is Thimphu (tim-POO).  
ANSWER:  Bhutan  [Kingdom of  Bhutan ] 
This is page 9 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. In one of this man’s plays, a precocious thirteen-year-old asks “what is carnal embrace?” to  
her tutor at Sidley Park. This author of  Travesties  created Septimus Hodge and Thomasina  
Coverly in his play  Arcadia.  He wrote another play in which a title character wins ninety-two  
coin flips in a row before meeting Claudius and Gertrude. For 10 points, name this British  
playwright of  Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.   
ANSWER: Tom  Stoppard  [or Tomas  Straussler ]  
12. This non-Roman person implemented the Law of Suspects and set price limits with the Law  
of the Maximum. This man appeared wearing a toga on top a man-made mountain during a  
festival for his Cult of the Supreme Being. This leader, nicknamed “The Incorruptible,” was  
executed during the Thermidorian Reaction. He destroyed groups including the Girondists (jir- 
AHN-dists) and the Dantonists as head of the Committee of Public Safety. For 10 points, name  
this French revolutionary who led the Reign of Terror.  
ANSWER: Maximilien  Robespierre  [Maximilien Francois Marie Isidore de  Robespierre ]  
13. A great sanctuary on Samothrace (SAA-moh-threys) was dedicated to mysterious underworld  
deities thought to be offspring of this god, the Cabeiri (cah-BARE-ee). Heracles killed a fire- 
breathing son of this god named Cacus. This god gave his assistant Cedalion (keh-DALE-yun) as  
a guide to the blind Orion, and he was crippled when he landed on Lemnos (LEM-nahss) after  
being thrown from Olympus. This god created Harmonia’s necklace and crafted Pandora. For 10  
points, name this Greek god of fire and the forge.  
ANSWER:  Hephaestus  [or  Vulcan  or  Mulciber  until “Greek” is read]  
14. A leader of this group, D.C. Stephenson, was disgraced after murdering a female  
schoolteacher. William J. Simmons revived this group’s popularity with a dramatic rally at Stone  
Mountain. The 1924 Democratic National Convention could not agree about condemning this  
organization and became known as its “bake.” It gained popularity again after the release of the  
film  The Birth of a Nation , and Nathan Bedford Forrest was this group’s first Grand Wizard. For  
10 points, name this white supremacist group which wears white robes and burns crosses.  
ANSWER:  KKK  [or  Ku Klux Klan ]  
15. A relativistic form of this phenomenon is named for Llewelyn Thomas. In a magnetic field,  
the magnetic moments of charged particles exhibit the Larmor type of this phenomenon, which is  
utilized in NMR spectroscopy. Nutation (noo-TAY-shun) can sometimes occur simultaneously  
with this phenomenon. This phenomenon is described by the change of the first Euler (OI-ler)  
angle. External torques can induce this phenomenon in gyroscopes. For 10 points, name this shift  
in an object’s axis of rotation.  
ANSWER:  precession 
This is page 10 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 8  
Tiebreaker/replacement questions   
1. A king of this group allowed the hostage Cloelia to leave with his camp with some male  
children. This group’s artwork includes the Sarcophagus of the Couples and the Chimera of  
Arezzo (ah-RET-zoh). They were once ruled by Lars Porsenna and lost the Battle of Veii (VEY- 
ee). This civilization replaced the earlier Villanovan culture and called itself Tyrrhenia (tai-REH- 
nee-uh) after its mythical founder. For 10 points, name this Italian civilization which was  
supplanted by the Romans.  
ANSWER:  Etruscan s [or E trusci ; or  Rasenna ; or  Tyrrhenia  until it is read]  
2. This quantity, not potential energy, decreases when you stretch a rubber band, making the  
rubber heat up. The net change in this quantity is zero only for reversible processes. The Clausius  
theorem defines this variable as heat over temperature. Boltzmann’s constant relates this  
quantity, microscopically, to the logarithm of the number of available microstates. The change in  
this quantity for the universe is always positive in any process, according to the laws of  
thermodynamics. For 10 points, name this quantity, symbolized S, that represents disorder.  
ANSWER:  entropy  [or   until it is read]  S 
3. In a novel by this author, a millionaire who lives in a castle overlooking Hollywood  
encounters the two hundred-year-old Fifth Earl of Gonister in his search for immortality. Henry  
Foster and Thomas “Tomakin” give a tour at the beginning of another novel by this author, in  
which Lenina Crowe fails to seduce John the Savage, who was born outside the World State and  
its five castes. For 10 points, name this English author of the dystopian novel  Brave New World.   
ANSWER: Aldous  Huxley  [Aldous Leonard  Huxley ]  
4. This man composed a symphonic poem depicting Hercules in women’s clothing spinning  
wool for the queen Omphale (OM-fuh-lay). The last movement of this composer’s third  
symphony features an organ, nicknaming the symphony the “Organ Symphony.” He used a solo  
violin with its E string tuned down a half step to represent death in his piece  Danse Macabre  
(muh-COB)  which he quoted in a suite in which a cello melody represents the graceful  , 
movement of a swan. For 10 points, name this French composer of  Carnival of the Animals.   
ANSWER: Camille  Saint-Saens  [Charles-Camille  Saint-Saens ]  
5. One of these things considers how many powers of two divide each side of the equation p- 
squared equals 2 times q-squared. Kenneth Appel and Wolfgang Haken generated one with the  
help of a computer to solve the four color problem. Euclid demonstrated there were infinitely  
many primes with one of these things “by contradiction.” For 10 points, what term is given to a  
series of arguments that establish the truth of a mathematical statement?  
ANSWER: mathematical  proof s 
This is page 11 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 8 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
What fundamental force is mediated by the W and Z bosons, and causes beta decay?  
ANSWER:  weak  force  
This is a calculation question. You randomly select 25 widgets from a given lot and find that the  
mean weight of the sample is 3 pounds and the standard deviation is 0.8 pounds. Compute the t- 
statistic used to test whether the mean weight of all of the widgets in the lot is greater than 2  
pounds.  
ANSWER: t =  6.25  [or t =  25/4 ] 
