2013 Colonia 
Round 6 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. At St. Augustine's Church, this organization initiated its Free Breakfast for Children program. One leader 
of this organization described how he raped women as an act of rebellion in his book  
Soul on Ice 
. This 
group used the phrase \"What We Want What We Believe\" to preface their Ten-Point program. This 
organization was led for a time by Eldridge Cleaver and was founded by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale in 
Oakland. For 10 points, name this radical black nationalist organization. 
ANSWER:  
Black Panther 
 Party for Self-Defense 
020-13-84-06101 
2. In one song by this recording artist, he hopes that a new person \"buys you flowers\" and \"gives you all his 
hours,\" which are some of the things the singer \"should have done\" during the title time period. Another hit 
single by this singer says \"open up your gates 'cause I can't wait to see the light.\" Name this Hawaiian-born 
singer whose album  
Unorthodox Jukebox 
 includes the singles \"When I Was Your Man\" and \"Locked Out 
of Heaven.\" 
ANSWER: Bruno  
Mars 
 [or Peter Gene  
Hernandez 
] 
023-13-84-06102 
3. This prime minister gave police better riot control equipment after the Brixton Riots. Controversial 
actions by this leader include letting Bobby Sands die in an IRA hunger strike and implementing a poll tax 
called the \"community charge.\" Succeeded by John Major, this prime minister privatized state-owned 
companies like British Steel. This leader also won the Falklands War and worked closely with Ronald 
Reagan. Name this \"Iron Lady,\" the only female prime minister of the UK. 
ANSWER: Margaret Hilda  
Thatcher 
 [or Margaret Hilda  
Roberts 
] 
080-13-84-06103 
4. A leader of this country attempted to conspire with Queen Victoria to battle Islam; that leader of this 
country was Tewodros II. The Declaration of Socialism was made by a ruling junta known as the Derg in 
this country in 1974. In the 1896 Battle of Adowa, Menelik II of this nation embarrassed a European 
power. This country became part of Italian East Africa after a 1934 invasion. Name this East African nation 
that Haile Selassie ruled from Addis Ababa. 
ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of  
Ethiopia 
 [or  
Ityop'iya 
 Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik] 
030-13-84-06104 
5. One literary work in this genre was written as a sequel to one by Matteo Maria Boiardo, and includes 
Astolfo’s trip to the moon to recover the title character’s wits. Besides Ludovico Ariosto’s  
Orlando 
Furioso, 
 other works in this genre include one in which Alde dies of grief after the title character is killed at 
Roncesvalles. Another work in this genre begins by asking a goddess to sing of the rage of Achilles. Name 
this type of narrative poem exemplified by  
The Song of Roland 
 and the  
Iliad. 
ANSWER:  
epic 
 poems [or  
epic 
s] 
014-13-84-06105 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  1 of 18 
6. This song was the basis for Germany's first national anthem, Norway's royal anthem, and Lichtenstein's 
current national anthem. This song's lyrics declare, \"Confound their politics, frustrate their knavish tricks\" 
after a request to \"scatter her enemies;\" it also expresses desire that the title character be \"happy and 
glorious, long to reign over us.\" Samuel Smith used its music as the tune for \"My Country 'Tis of Thee.\" 
Name this national anthem of the United Kingdom, which requests a blessing on Elizabeth II. 
ANSWER: \" 
God Save the Queen 
\" [or \" 
God Save the King 
\"] 
080-13-84-06106 
7. These people paid a namesake \"rent\" of a penny per month to support an organization advocating for 
their political rights. The Duke of Wellington's government allied with Robert Peel to revoke the Test Act, 
allowing these people to serve in Parliament. Daniel O'Connell led the campaign for the \"emancipation\" of 
this group. What religious group was suppressed in British politics after Henry VIII formed the Anglican 
church? 
ANSWER:  
Catholics 
 in the United Kingdom 
019-13-84-06107 
8. This scientist invented an analog computer called the Monte Carlo trolley in order to facilitate his studies 
of neutron transport, and charged particles reflected off a magnetic mirror undergo his namesake 
acceleration. Perturbation theory uses his \"golden rule.\" A facility named for him is the location of the 
DZero and CDF experiments, which discovered the top quark in 1995. That facility, which is home to the 
Tevatron particle accelerator, is located in Batavia, Illinois. Particles named for this man have half-integer 
spin and include leptons and quarks. Identify this Italian-American physicist. 
ANSWER: Enrico  
Fermi 
189-13-84-06108 
9. This man found more time to write after colony-taxer Charles Townshend hired him as a tutor. He 
argued that the “impartial spectator” inside each person judges actions in his  
Theory of Moral Sentiments. 
In another book, he explained that a factory produced forty-eight thousand pins per day due to the division 
of labor and that economic self-interest guides society through the “invisible hand.” Name this philosopher 
who wrote the anti-mercantilist  
The Wealth of Nations. 
ANSWER: Adam  
Smith 
019-13-84-06109 
10. Pablo Picasso painted a series of 58 reinterpretations of this work, the basis for John Singer Sargent's  
The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit 
. In this painting, a mirror on the back wall reflects King Philip IV 
and his queen, and the artist himself is wearing the red cross of the Order of Santiago while working. Two 
dwarves, a mastiff, and the title characters surround the Infanta Margarita in this painting. Name this Diego 
Velazquez painting set in the court of Spain. 
ANSWER:  
Las Meninas 
 [or  
The  Maids of Honour 
] 
080-13-84-06110 
11. During this battle, John French moved in with the British Expeditionary Force after Allied 
reconnaissance planes discovered a 30-mile gap between the German First and Second armies. The losing 
side in this battle retreated 40 miles before successfully entrenching themselves at the Aisne River. The 
French line at this battle was saved when Joseph Gallieni sent 6,000 reinforcement troops to the front in 
taxicabs. After losing this battle, Germany had to abandon the Schlieffen Plan. Name this 1914 World War 
I battle that pushed back the initial German march towards Paris. 
ANSWER:  
First 
 Battle of the  
Marne 
 [prompt on Battle of the  
Marne 
] 
080-13-84-06111 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  2 of 18 
12. A Joan Miro painting shows one of these animals attempting to communicate with the moon. A 
frame-by-frame view of one of these animals with a woman is shown in Giacomo Balla’s painting of their 
\"Dynamism.\" One of them is on the bed in Titian's  
Venus of Urbino, 
 and one of these animals sits at the 
feet of the bride in Jan van Eyck’s  
Arnolfini Wedding. 
 Name these animals who, in a series by C. M. 
Coolidge, play poker. 
ANSWER:  
dog 
s [or equivalents such as  
hound 
s or  
canine 
s] 
030-13-84-06112 
13. The Supreme Court found that this company's Tellico project violated the ESA by endangering the snail 
darter in this company's case versus Hill. This company's original three-person board consisted of Harcourt 
Morgan, Arthur Morgan, and David Lilienthal. This company was created because of the lobbying of 
George Norris, who wanted to develop the area around Muscle Shoals. Name this government-owned 
corporation created during the New Deal to establish hydroelectric dams on its namesake river. 
ANSWER:  
Tennessee Valley Authority 
 [or  
TVA 
] 
080-13-84-06113 
14. This composer wrote a despairing letter to his brothers called the Heiligenstadt (HI-luh-gunsh-tot) 
Testament. This man directed pianists to hold the pedal down for the entirety of the first movement of a 
sonata that Ludwig Rellstab nicknamed. That sonata by this man reminded Rellstab of night at Lake 
Lucerne. Another work for piano by this composer was titled \"For Elise.\" Name this German composer 
who wrote the  
Moonlight Sonata 
 and continued to conduct after going deaf. 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven 
023-13-84-06114 
15. The keyword auto is used with these things. These things can be passed to functions using the strategies 
call-by-value or call-by-reference. Camel case and Hungarian notation are two ways to name these things. 
When they are only available inside certain functions, instead of globally, their scope is said to be local. 
Statically typed languages require that these things have their type identified when they are declared; those 
types include int and float. Identify these storage locations for data that have a symbolic name. 
ANSWER:  
variable 
s 
066-13-84-06115 
16. This man thinks it ominous that the innkeeper of the place he is staying at is named Peter Coffin, and 
Peleg is unimpressed by his service in the merchant service. At the Spouter-Inn, he tries to convince his 
roommate of the foolishness of fasting during Ramadan. Elijah warns this man and that roommate that their 
souls are in peril after they agree to ship with a certain vessel. By holding on to a coffin that was originally 
a small boat, this sailor is the only man to survive the sinking of the  
Pequod. 
 Name this narrator of  
Moby-Dick. 
ANSWER:  
Ishmael 
 [prompt on the  
narrator of  Moby-Dick 
 until it is read] 
121-13-84-06116 
17. This man cropped out everything but the frightened faces of a couple in a close-up of a torn movie 
poster. This artist hid a camera underneath his coat to secretly photograph people on the New York 
Subway, releasing those photos in the volume  
Many Are Called 
. He took a picture of Allie Mae Burroughs 
with an expressionless face in front of a house. He did his best-known work to help on an article for  
Fortune 
 written by James Agee. Name this photographer who depicted Alabama families enduring the 
Great Depression in  
Let Us Now Praise Famous Men 
. 
ANSWER: Walker  
Evans 
080-13-84-06117 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  3 of 18 
18. The discoverer of these functions is John Napier. This function of a root of x is equal to this function of 
x divided by the order of the root. Without a horizontal shift, these functions all possess a vertical 
asymptote at x equals zero. This function of a quotient is equal to this function of the numerator minus this 
function of the denominator. e is the base of the \"natural\" one of these functions, written as ln (L N). Ones 
that do not specify a base are assumed to be base 10. For 10 points, name these functions which can be 
thought of as reverse exponents. 
ANSWER:  
log 
arithms 
020-13-84-06118 
19. The title character of this play used to pull a classmate's hair in school and threaten to burn it off. At the 
end of this play, the title character shoots herself to avoid entrapment in an adulterous relationship with 
Judge Brack. The protagonist of this play burns a crucial manuscript and advises Eilert Lovborg to kill 
himself for the sake of her husband's advancement. Name this Henrik Ibsen play about the manipulative 
wife of George Tesman. 
ANSWER:  
Hedda Gabler 
080-13-84-06119 
20. This quantity is plotted on the Y axis against entropy in a diagram used to find the “dryness fraction”, 
the Mollier diagram. The Joule-Thompson process keeps this quantity constant. The change in this quantity 
can be calculated through the Born-Haber cycle using Hess’ law. This quantity minus temperature times 
entropy gives the Gibbs free energy. Name this quantity whose change is used to characterize whether a 
reaction is endo- or exothermic, usually symbolized H. 
ANSWER:  
enthalpy 
 [accept   until read] 
H 
048-13-84-06120 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  4 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 6 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. This god warned Zeus against marrying Thetis for fear it would result in a son more powerful than his 
father. This god created the precedent of offering bones wrapped in fat as a gift to the gods instead of meat, 
and he was the brother of Epimetheus. In one legend, he warns his son Deucalion of a great flood. Pandora 
was created on Zeus’ orders as punishment for the actions of this Titan, who was ultimately bound to a 
mountain in the Causcaus and has an eagle eat his immortal liver. Name this Greek Titan who was 
punished for his gift of fire to humanity. 
ANSWER:  
Prometheus 
030-13-84-06121 
2. In January 2013, a large number of manuscripts were destroyed in this country when the Ahmad Babu 
Institute was burned down. The ongoing Operation Serval in this country is targeting both Ansar Dine and 
the national movement for the liberation of Azawad, two groups that parted ways after cooperating on an 
insurgency. Dissatisfaction with government handling of the rebellion led this country's army to overthrow 
president Amadou Toumani Touré in March 2012. Name this African country in which the French have 
intervened to stop northern rebels from forming a breakaway Islamist state. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Mali 
 [or Republique du  
Mali 
; or  
Mali 
 ka Fasojamana] 
020-13-84-06122 
3. A Friedrich Nietzsche concept named after this deity represents order in  
The Birth of Tragedy. 
 A wind 
from Zephyrus blew this god’s fatal discus throw at Hyacinthus. This deity’s plague arrows strike the 
Greeks in the Iliad. Daphne became a laurel tree to avoid this god, who the oracle of Delphi served. Hermes 
gave this god a lyre in his role as god of poetry and music. Name this brother of Artemis, who, like Helios, 
represents the sun. 
ANSWER: Phoebus  
Apollo 
 [or  
Apollon 
; or \"the  
Apollonian 
\"] 
104-13-84-06123 
4. This quantity is multiplied by h-bar in the numerator of the Bohr magneton. For its namesake property, 
quarks have a value of positive two-thirds or negative one-third of this constant. It equals Faraday's 
constant divided by Avogadro's number. This constant was first measured in an experiment which allowed 
oil drops to reach terminal velocity, initiated by Millikan. That experiment, which calculated this quantity's 
ratio to electron mass, set it to be approximately one point six times ten to the negative nineteenth 
Coulombs. Name this value symbolized e. 
ANSWER:  
elementary charge 
 [or  
charge 
 of a  
proton 
; or  
charge 
 of an  
electron 
] 
190-13-84-06124 
5. The severity of this disease is monitored by the HbA1c test, and drugs used to treat it include 
sulfonylureas and metformin. Its more severe cases can lead to retinopathy and neuropathy, and its onset 
can be prevented with a high-fiber diet. Frequent urination and thirst are symptoms of this disease, which 
has type I and type II forms. Name this disease leading to high blood glucose levels, which involves an 
inability to produce and use insulin. 
ANSWER:  
diabetes 
 mellitus 
192-13-84-06125 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  5 of 18 
6. In one novel by this author, seventeen half-brothers are all marked for death by permanent Ash 
Wednesday crosses. In another work by this author, Juvenal Urbino falls to his death trying to capture his 
parrot, and Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza sail in a ship waving a yellow flag. This author wrote about 
Remedios the Beauty, Aureliano, and other descendants of the Buendias (bwen-DEE-uhs) in Macondo. 
Name this Colombian author of  
Love in the Time of Cholera 
 and  
One Hundred Years of Solitude. 
ANSWER: Gabriel  
Garcia Marquez 
 [prompt on  
Marquez 
] 
186-13-84-06126 
7. This god took the form of a turtle to stop a mountain from sinking into the sand during the churning of 
the milk ocean. In the form of a fish named Matsya, he saved the first man, Manu, from a flood. This god 
rides on the eagle Garuda and rests on the many-headed serpent Shesha. This deity's consort is the goddess 
of luck, Lakshmi. With Shiva and Brahma, this god makes up the Trimurti. Name this Hindu preserver god 
whose avatars include Rama and Krishna. 
ANSWER:  
Vishnu 
 [or  
Kurma 
 before \"fish\" is read] 
080-13-84-06127 
8. The site of this city's first university is on its \"Illuminated Block\" in the Monserrat neighborhood. 
Residents of this city are called porteños. The Pink House is the executive mansion near its central plaza, 
which was the site of the \"Mothers of the Plaza\" demonsrations. That site, Plaza de Mayo, is named for the 
1810 May Revolution that started in this city. It borders the estuary of the confluence of the Paraná and 
Uruguay Rivers, the Río de la Plata. Name this capital of Argentina. 
ANSWER:  
Buenos Aires 
121-13-84-06128 
9. The reionization of this element is a major era in the universe's history. The Lyman series occurs in this 
element. The Rydberg equation is used to find the Balmer series for this element, which is the namesake of 
an interaction between oxygens and amides in secondary structures of proteins. pH is the measure of the 
concentration of an ion of this element. It is fused in the proton-proton chain. An explanation for the high 
boiling point of water is provided by this element's namesake bonds. This lightest element with atomic 
number one. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen 
189-13-84-06129 
10. Organisms with a periplasmic space are unable to take up one chemical used in this procedure, which is 
sometimes replaced with the Ziehl-Neelsen stain for acid-fast organsims. This process can use carbol 
fuschin in its last step instead of safranin. This process uses iodine as a mordant to trap the crystal violet 
primary dye. Those that are positive for this test appear purple and have peptidoglycan in their cell walls. 
Name this procedure used to divide bacteria into namesake positive and negative types. 
ANSWER:  
Gram 
 staining 
048-13-84-06130 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  6 of 18 
1. Answer the following about polynomials. 
[5] Take 30 seconds to answer this calculation question. Find the point of intersection of the lines y = 2x + 
5 and y = -4x - 7. 
ANSWER:  
(-2, 1) 
 [or  
x = -2 
 and  
y = 1 
] 
[10] Use another 30 seconds on this calculation question. Find all solutions to the equation x  + 3x  - 4x - 
3 2 
12 = 0. 
ANSWER: x=  , x =  , and x=  [accept answers in any order; do not accept partial answers] 
2 -2 -3 
[15] What Greek letter denotes the function that zero everywhere except zero, where it is infinite? 
ANSWER:  
delta 
[20] What field of abstract algebra began as an attempt to explain why Abel's theorem, which states that 
there is no general equation for polynomials of degree five or higher, is true? 
ANSWER:  
Galois 
 theory 
066-13-84-06101 
2. Answer the following about opinionated people. 
[5] Conservative David Brooks and liberal Maureen Dowd, among many others, all write for what 
newspaper, nicknamed the \"Old Gray Lady\"? 
ANSWER:  
The  New York Times 
[10]  
The New York Times 
 is now the third-largest newspaper in the U.S., with the largest being this 
newspaper, published in New York by Dow Jones & Company. 
ANSWER:  
The  Wall Street Journal 
[15] Who took part in the 2012 \"Rumble in the Air Conditioned Auditorium\" against his frequent guest Jon 
Stewart? 
ANSWER: William James \"Bill\"  
O'Reilly 
, Jr. 
[20] What host of  
The Right Side 
 was fired from his Tribune Media column in 2005 after it was found that 
he received $241,000 to write in favor of the No Child Left Behind program? 
ANSWER: Armstrong  
Williams 
 [do not accept Juan Williams] 
020-13-84-06102 
3. Answer the following about the ocean. 
[5] What storms are involved in the transfer of heat from the equator to the polar region and usually occur 
from June to November. They are tropical cyclones with sustained winds of at least 74 miles per hour. 
ANSWER: major  
hurricane 
 [or  
typhoon 
; prompt on tropical  
cyclone 
; prompt on cyclonic  
storm 
] 
[10] This fictitious force is responsible for the shape of the Ekman spiral. It is the deflection of a moving 
object in a rotating reference frame. 
ANSWER:  
Coriolis 
 effect 
[15] What phenomenon results from a weakened Walker Circulation and strongly suppresses upwelling off 
the coast of Peru? 
ANSWER:  
El Niño 
/La Niña-Southern Oscillation [or  
ENSO 
; prompt on  
Southern Oscillation 
; do not 
accept \"La Niña\"] 
[20] What enormous region of high plastics concentration is formed by a gyre between Japan and the 
United States? 
ANSWER: the  
Great Pacific Garbage Patch 
066-13-84-06103 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  7 of 18 
4. Answer the following about forces in mechanics. 
[5] What law states that the force required to compress or stretch a spring is equal to a stiffness constant 
times distance displaced? 
ANSWER:  
Hooke 
's law 
[10] Name the force that opposes the relative motion of two surfaces. Its static and kinetic types have 
different coefficients. 
ANSWER:  
friction 
[15] Young's Modulus equals the ratio of what quantity to strain? 
ANSWER:  
stress 
[20] Stress is expressed by a \"traction vector\" named for what inventor of complex function theory, who is 
the namesake of more mathematical and physical theorems than any other person? 
ANSWER: Augustin Louis  
Cauchy 
149-13-84-06104 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  8 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 6 
Letter R 
Letter S 
Letter T 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  9 of 18 
Letter R 
[10] The Seven Days Battles were an attempt to take what Confederate capital during the Civil War? 
ANSWER:  
Richmond 
[10] What is the term for any chemical reaction in which the oxidation number of a chemical changes? 
ANSWER:  
redox reaction 
 [or  
oxidation-reduction 
 reaction] 
[10] Lake Contance forms part of the course of what river? 
ANSWER:  
Rhine 
 River 
[10] What location of the Bundestag was restored by Sir Norman Foster and \"wrapped\" by Christo and 
Jeanne-Claude in 1995? 
ANSWER:  
Reichstag 
[10] The shooting down of President Juvenal Habyarimana's airplane was followed by what 1994 event in 
which approximately 500,000 Tutsis were murdered. 
ANSWER:  
Rwandan 
 Genocide 
[10] Old Town Albuquerque's Tingley Beach is located alongside what river that also flows through Las 
Cruces and El Paso? 
ANSWER:  
Rio Grande 
[10] What last Western Roman emperor was given a pension after being captured by Odoacer in 476? 
ANSWER:  
Romulus Augustulus 
 [or Flavius Momyllus  
Romulus Augustulus 
[10] What last name is shared by the poet Dante Gabriel, who wrote \"The Blessed Damozel,\" and his sister 
Christina, who wrote \"Goblin Market\"? 
ANSWER:  
Rossetti 
[10] What law in chemistry states that changes in related properties of a liquid are proportional to the 
number of molecules of dissolved solute present for a given quantity of solvent molecules? 
ANSWER:  
Raoult's 
 Law 
[10] What writer of  
Persian Letters 
 wrote a series of novels about the titular pair of father/son giants in  
Gargantua and Pantagruel 
? 
ANSWER: Francois  
Rabelais 
030-13-84-0610-3 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  10 of 18 
Letter S 
[10] What leader of Jamestown issued the law “he who works not, eats not” and may have been saved by 
Pocahontas? 
ANSWER: John  
Smith 
[10] What element is attached to a carbon compound in thiols and has chemical symbol “S?” 
ANSWER:  
sulfur 
[10] What is the largest non-polar desert in the world? 
ANSWER:  
Sahara 
 Desert 
[10] What actor played the invalid photographer Jeff in  
Rear Window 
 and George Bailey in  
It's a 
Wonderful Life 
? 
ANSWER: James “Jimmy”  
Stewart 
[10] What Nicaraguan revolutionary group overthrew the Somozas and was opposed by the contras? 
ANSWER:  
Sandinista 
 National Liberation Front [or  
FSLN 
] 
[10] What state was the home of senator George McGovern and Mount Rushmore? 
ANSWER:  
South Dakota 
[10] What island held the city of Syracuse and was the site of an Athenian expedition during the 
Peloponnesian War? 
ANSWER:  
Sicily 
[10] What type of bird is addressed “Hail to thee, blithe spirit” in a poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley? 
ANSWER:  
skylark 
 [or “Ode to a  
Skylark 
”] 
[10] What physicist's namesake equation shows the time derivative of the wave function and the functions 
Hamiltonian to be proportional by a factor of “i” times “h-bar?” 
ANSWER: Erwin  
Schrödinger 
[10] What psychologist championed a radical behaviorist understanding of human action in books like  
Beyond Freedom and Dignity 
? 
ANSWER: Burrhus Frederic  
Skinner 
121-13-84-0610-3 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  11 of 18 
Letter T 
[10] Paul wrote two epistles to a man of what name? 
ANSWER:  
Timothy 
[10] What hypothetical particle moves faster than the speed of light? 
ANSWER:  
tachyon 
[10] Kingdoms and phyla are examples of what units of classification? 
ANSWER:  
taxon 
[10] What animal comes in Sumatran and Bengal subspecies? 
ANSWER:  
tiger 
[10] What amino acid has an indole group and apocryphally causes drowsiness? 
ANSWER:  
tryptophan 
[10] What gland in the neck produces namesake hormones? 
ANSWER:  
thyroid 
[10] What is the name of the title “uncle” of an anti-slavery novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe? 
ANSWER:  
Tom 
[10] What arcade game involves stacking four-unit shapes such as the L-shaped one and the block? 
ANSWER:  
Tetris 
[10] What polygon is subject to the law of cosines? 
ANSWER:  
triangle 
[10] What mournful military bugle piece is sounded at dusk and funerals? 
ANSWER: “ 
Taps 
” 
014-13-84-0610-3 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  12 of 18 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  13 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 6 
20 20-Point Tossups 
1. Some of the people who agreed to perform this action hid in Judges Cave after fleeing to Connecticut. 
The Indemnity and Oblivion Act mandated that only the people who had ordered this action were to be 
punished. This action was performed at the Banqueting House of Whitehall on January 30, 1649, after a 
week-long trial on charges of conspiring with Scots to invade England and causing the English Civil War. 
For 20 points, identify this act of regicide, which led to Oliver Cromwell forming the Protectorate. 
ANSWER:  
execution of Charles I 
 [or synonyms for \"execution\" including  
killing 
 or  
beheading 
; prompt 
on  
execution of Charles 
 or other partial answers] 
019-13-84-06101 
2. One of this composer’s symphonies has an extra movement marked “Feierlich” and quotes the main 
theme of Brahms’s third symphony in its opening  
Lebhaft 
 movement. He never completed his \"Zwickau\" 
Symphony, but included “The Poet Speaks” and “Traumerai” among his  
Scenes from Childhood. 
 The 
poems of Adolph Boettger inspired his first symphony, nicknamed the \"Spring.\" For 20 points, name this 
German composer, who was married to Clara Wieck and composed the \"Rhenish\" Symphony. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Schumann 
192-13-84-06102 
3. This campaign started after Raynald of Chantillon's beheading and Guy of Lusignan's capture at the 
Battle of Hattin. Leopold V of Austria left this campaign after his standard was cast down following a 
victory at a double siege. After Acre (AH-ker) fell, Philip II of France also left, leaving another commander 
in this campaign to win at Arsuf and sign a treaty allowing pilgrims to visit a Muslim-held Jerusalem. For 
20 points, name this crusade in which Saladin fought Richard Lionheart. 
ANSWER:  
Third 
 Crusade 
153-13-84-06103 
4. The speaker of this poem complains, “I mete and dole unequal laws unto a savage race, that hoard, and 
sleep, and feed, and know not me.” Its last stanza begins with the observation, “There lies the port; the 
vessel puffs her sail.” This poem’s speaker describes himself “yearning in desire to follow knowledge like 
a sinking star.” The speaker concludes by affirming that he and his old mariners are “strong in will to 
strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.” For 20 points, name this dramatic monologue by Lord Tennyson. 
ANSWER: “ 
Ulysses 
” 
014-13-84-06104 
5. This phenomenon's relationship to the number of subjects involved was studied by Darley and Latane, 
and this phenomenon is an example of social loafing. A famous example of this phenomenon took place in 
New York when Winton Moseley stabbed a woman named Kitty Genovese. For 20 points, identify this 
social phenomenon in which the presence of other people in a given emergency or situation decreases the 
likelihood of individuals providing help on their own. 
ANSWER:  
bystander 
 effect [or Kitty  
Genovese 
 effect or syndrome before mentioned] 
189-13-84-06105 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  14 of 18 
6. This people's strike in response to a planned expropriation of land by the government is celebrated on 
\"Land Day.\" Roughly 700,000 of these people fled their home country in an mass exodus called \"the 
Catastrophe\" or \"al-Nakba.\" Police forces fired steel bullets wrapped in rubber at them during an uprising 
called the \"shaking off,\" or \"Intifada.\" For 20 points, the Oslo Accords created a national authority for what 
people? 
ANSWER:  
Palestinians 
 [or  
Israeli Arabs 
; prompt on  
Arabs 
; prompt on  
Muslims 
] 
080-13-84-06106 
7. The groove ventral to these structures is covered by the flexor retinaculum. These structures include the 
trapezium and triquetrum. One of these, which has a hook, forms a boundary of Guyon’s canal along with 
the pisiform. They include the lunate, hamate, and scaphoid, the last of which articulates with the radius. 
The median nerve can be compressed in the \"tunnel\" named for these entities in a namesake syndrome. For 
20 points, name this set of eight bones that form the wrist. 
ANSWER:  
carpal 
s [prompt on  
bones 
; prompt on  
bones of the hands 
; prompt on  
bones of the wrist 
s; do 
not accept \"metacarpals\"] 
048-13-84-06107 
8. One character in this poem predicts the defeat of the White Guelfs. Antaeus is a giant who transports the 
main characters of this poem between two areas. The earthly bodies of Fra Alberigo and Branca d'Oria 
have been possessed in this epic, but their souls are in the title place. Count Ugolino gnaws on the head of 
Archbishop Ruggieri in a frozen section of its title realm. For 20 points, name this poem in which Vergil 
serves as a guide. 
ANSWER: the  
Inferno 
 [prompt on  
The  Divine Comedy 
; prompt on  
La Divina  Commedia 
] 
030-13-84-06108 
9. George Stanley is taken into custody in this play in order to blackmail his father into supporting the 
protagonist. In this work, Tyrell states that \"the tyannous and bloody act is done.” Lady Anne calls one 
figure in this play a “foul toad” in rebuffing a marriage proposal, and Clarence is murdered by agents of the 
title character in the Tower of London. The protagonist of this play cries, “A horse, a horse! My kingdom 
for a horse!” and the families of York and Lancaster are united in the final act. For 20 points, name this 
Shakespeare history about a villainous English king. 
ANSWER:  
Richard III 
030-13-84-06109 
10. One member of this discipline, who championed explaining behaviors in context through “thick 
description,” was Clifford Geertz. At Barnard, Zora Neale Hurston was trained in this discipline by its 
American founder Franz Boas, who also taught Margaret Mead. For 20 points, name this field that 
pioneered the technique of participant observation, which can help practitioners write ethnography. 
ANSWER:  
anthropology 
 [or cultural  
anthropology 
; prompt on  
ethnography 
 before it is read] 
104-13-84-06110 
11. One religious leader in this country was executed by order of Amir Kabir after prophesying \"the one 
who God shall make manifest.\" That man founded a religion in this country that venerates  
The Book of 
Certitude. 
 This country was ruled for a millennium by followers of a religion that believes in the evil Angra 
Mainyu and the good god Ahura Mazda. For 20 points, name this homeland of Bahai and Zoroastrianism, 
which is now the world’s largest Shia Muslim country. 
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of  
Iran 
 [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye  
Iran 
; or  
Persia 
n Empire] 
019-13-84-06111 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  15 of 18 
12. This poet got his break when his University of Pennsylvania classmate Ezra Pound convinced James 
Laughlin to publish him. He wrote a long poem that contains the lines “there is something something 
urgent I have to say to you” and “it is difficult to get the news from poems.” This author of  
Asphodel, That 
Greeny Flower 
 wrote another poem about plums that were “delicious, so sweet and so cold.” For 20 points, 
name this American physician and poet of “This Is Just to Say” and \"The Red Wheelbarrow.\" 
ANSWER: William Carlos  
Williams 
015-13-84-06112 
13. In 1922, this man attempted to reconcile the Hussein-McMahon Correspondence with the Balfour 
Declaration by drafting his namesake \"White Paper.\" This man had to resign from his post during World 
War I after the failure of the Gallipoli Campaign. This man declared he had nothing to offer but \"blood, 
toil, tears, and sweat\" in one speech; in another speech, he declared, \"Never...was so much owed by so 
many to so few\" with reference to the RAF's success in the Battle of Britain. For 20 points, name this prime 
minister who led Britain during World War II. 
ANSWER: Winston Leonard Spencer  
Churchill 
080-13-84-06113 
14. In 1910, a scandal erupted when Frederick Cook falsely claimed to have climbed this mountain. It is 
now summited by climbers of the West Buttress route who begin at the Kahiltna Glacier. Outdated names 
for it include Densmore's Mountain and the Russian name Bolshaya Gora. The first European to see this 
mountain was George Vancouver, who was sailing in Cook Inlet. For 20 points, identify this mountain 
located about halfway between Anchorage and Fairbanks. 
ANSWER: Mount  
McKinley 
 [or  
Denali 
] 
019-13-84-06114 
15. This man painted a rifleman with a deer pelt in the Adirondacks in his  
A Huntsman and Dogs 
. One of 
his paintings depicts the battlefield of Petersburg in the background as Brigadier General Francis Channing 
Barlow reviews the title figures. Several boys link arms to play the title game in another painting by this 
artist of  
Prisoners from the Front 
, who showed a lone black man sitting in a capsizing boat that is 
surrounded by sharks. For 20 points, name this American painter of  
Snap the Whip 
 and  
The Gulf Stream 
. 
ANSWER: Winslow  
Homer 
030-13-84-06115 
16. The first of these devices was created with a synthetic ruby crystal by Theodore H. Maiman. The first 
one of these based on gases used helium and neon. These devices are created by placing a pair of mirrors 
on either side of a gain medium, then pumping the gain medium so that the atoms within achieve 
population inversion and release photons of a defined energy. For 20 points, name these devices that 
produce a beam of monochromatic, coherent light. 
ANSWER:  
laser 
 [or  
light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation 
] 
048-13-84-06116 
17. During this man's presidency, the first commemorative postage stamp was released by his Postmaster 
General, John Wanamaker. William Dudley wanted to use \"floaters\" to support this man's campaign in the 
\"Blocks of Five\" scandal. Levi Morton was the running mate of this President. He signed the McKinley 
Tariff and the Sherman Antitrust Act. This President worked with the Billion Dollar Congress. For 20 
points, name this Republican President who served between the two terms of Grover Cleveland. 
ANSWER:  enjamin  
B Harrison 
 [prompt on  
Harrison 
] 
149-13-84-06117 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  16 of 18 
18. This poet was inspired by the rhyme scheme of the Finnish epic  
Kalevala 
 for a poem featuring the West 
Wind’s seduction of Nokomis’s daughter. He brought Homeric dactylic hexameter into English for a poem 
titled for Gabriel Lajeunesse’s Cajun lover. This author of  
Evangeline 
 also wrote about a native prince who 
loves Minnehaha, and the hanging of lamps at the Old North Church. For 20 points, name this American 
poet of  
The Song of Hiawatha. 
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth  
Longfellow 
104-13-84-06118 
19. This building's construction was protested by a \"Committee of Three Hundred,\" one for each meter of 
its height, which included Guy de Maupassant, who ate lunch at its restaurant so he could avoid seeing it. 
No women are counted among the 72 scientists and engineers whose names are engraved on this building's 
first balcony. This puddle iron structure served as the entrance arch for the 1889 World's Fair and has since 
been used to jam German communications in the First World War. For 20 points, name this tower. 
ANSWER:  
Eiffel Tower 
 [or La  
Dame de Fer 
; or the  
Iron Lady 
; or  
Eiffel 
 after \"tower\" is read] 
020-13-84-06119 
20. One narrator created by this author refers to past incidents such as the \"Trevor Richardson affair\" and 
the \"Mannering case\" and believes that the disappearance of his parents in Shanghai is the cause of the 
Pacific theater of World War II. This author, who created Christopher Banks in  
When We Were Orphans, 
also created a protagonist distressed by a housekeeper's long marriage to Mr. Benn. This author depicted 
the arrival of Mr. Farraday to take over Darlington Hall in that novel about the butler Stevens. For 20 
points, name this British author of  
The Remains of the Day. 
ANSWER: Kazuo  
Ishiguro 
019-13-84-06120 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  17 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 6 
Tiebreakers 
1. This number divided by four is the sum of the sequence beginning one minus one third plus one fifth 
minus one seventh. The sum of the squares of the reciprocals of the natural numbers is equal to one sixth 
the square of this number. Archimedes approximated this value by calculating the area of a regular 96-gon. 
This number is the period of tangent of x and half the period of sine of x. It is sometimes approximated as 
22/7. Name this number that is the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter. 
ANSWER:   [prompt on  
pi 3.14 
159; prompt on  
22/7 
 before it is read] 
131-13-84-06151 
2. This general captured modern-day Cartagena by sending 500 men in secret over an ebbing lagoon. He 
extended the battle lines on his flanks while holding his center back to win the Battle of Ilipa. Cato tried to 
destroy this man politically due to his affection for Greek culture. In another battle, this general opened 
gaps in his lines to let war elephants pass through and used Masinissa's Numidian cavalry to attack the 
enemy from behind. That strategy used by this man won the Battle of Zama. Name this Roman general who 
defeated Hannibal to end the Second Punic War. 
ANSWER: Publius Cornelius  
Scipio Africanus 
 [or  
Scipio Africanus 
 the Elder; or  
Scipio Africanus 
Major] 
080-13-84-06152 
3. The author of this novel borrowed a description of the Pharisees from the Bible to describe one city as a 
\"whited sepulchre.\" An essay written about novel criticizes the portrayal of a man shouting, \"Eat 'im!\" and 
asserts that the author was fixated on the \"n-word.\" Chinua Achebe called the author of this novel a racist in 
his essay \"An Image of Africa.\" In this novel, Mr. Kurtz dies in the presence of the British sailor Marlow. 
Name this short novel by Joseph Conrad. 
ANSWER:  
Heart of Darkness 
190-13-84-06153 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 Colonia     6     Page  18 of 18 
