VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 13 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The discoverer of these functions is John Napier. This function of a root of x is equal to this function of x 
divided by the order of the root. Without a horizontal shift, these functions all possess a vertical asymptote 
at x equals zero. This function of a quotient is equal to this function of the numerator minus this function of 
the denominator. e is the base of the \"natural\" one of these functions, written as ln (L N). Ones that do not 
specify a base are assumed to be base 10. For 10 points, name these functions which can be thought of as 
reverse exponents. 
ANSWER:  
log 
arithms 
020-12-70-13101 
2. This character is an old man known as “the trapper” in  
The Prairie. 
 He aids Judge Marmaduke Temple 
and is known as Hawkeye in  
The Pioneers. 
 In another novel, this character helps the Munro sisters get to 
Fort William Henry and befriends Chingachgook and the Mohawk warrior Uncas. He is the protagonist of  
The Deerslayer, The Pathfinder, 
   and  
The Last of the Mohicans. 
 For 10 points, name this character created 
by James Fenimore Cooper. 
ANSWER:  
Natty 
 Bumppo [or Natty  
Bumppo 
; or  
Nathaniel 
 Bumppo; or  
Hawkeye 
 before it is read] 
015-12-70-13102 
3. Former New Jersey governor Thomas Kean chaired an investigation into this event. One operation 
during this event ended after Larry Silverstein's command \"pull it.\" Richard Drew captured the 
upside-down \"falling man\" in a photograph during this incident, which is memorialized in Shanksville, 
Pennsylvania, near the site of 44 deaths. For 10 points, name this day on which Flight 93 was rerouted, but 
plane hijackers destroyed New York's Twin Towers. 
ANSWER:  
9/11 
 terrorist attacks [or  
September 11 
th, 2001; or the destruction of the  
World Trade Center 
; or the fall of the  
Twin Towers 
; prompt on  
Flight 93 
] 
104-12-70-13103 
4. One of this artist’s paintings features a woman falling from a building through the clouds as well as her 
bloody corpse on the ground. Besides depicting the  
Suicide of Dorothy Hale 
, this artist depicted a woman 
with thorns around her neck and a monkey on her left shoulder. In another work, this painter featured two 
identical women with exposed hearts, with one woman holding a bloody pair of scissors. For 10 points, 
name this female Mexican painter and wife of Diego Rivera, who painted many bizarre self-portraits. 
ANSWER: Frida  
Kahlo 
 de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frieda  
Kahlo 
 y Calderon] 
052-12-70-13104 
5. In this work, the ship  
Demeter 
 come into harbor with no one but the dead captain on board, and children 
are attacked by the “Bloofer Lady.” One character in this work, Dr. Seward, runs an insane asylum, which 
houses Renfield, and he proposes marriage to Lucy Westenra. This novel opens with Jonathan Harker, 
fiancée of Mina Murray, traveling through the Carpathian Mountains to the home of the title character. For 
10 points, name this vampire novel by Bram Stoker. 
ANSWER:  
Dracula 
191-12-70-13105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  1 of 10 
6. A hormone secreted from this organ is responsible for triggering the formation of red blood cells; that 
hormone is erythropoietin. This organ contains balls of capillaries surrounded slit diaphragms and 
podocytes, which are responsible for keeping proteins from leaking out of the circulation. The functional 
unit of this organ contains a pair of convoluted tubules book-ending the Loop of Henle, and is called the 
nephron. This organ is responsible for maintaining salt balance. For 10 points, name this organ which 
produces urine. 
ANSWER:  
kidney 
048-12-70-13106 
7. One provision of this act requires the SEC to regulate the market in blood diamonds. The 
Brown-Kaufman amendment to this bill was voted down. Before it passed the Senate, the Durbin 
Amendment was added to it. This act reimposed some restrictions from the Glass-Steagall Act with its 
Volcker Rule, and was intended to end the idea of \"too big to fail.\" This 848-page act is named for two 
Democratic senators from Connecticut and Massachusetts. For 10 points, name this act signed in 2010 to 
regulate the financial system. 
ANSWER:  
Dodd-Frank 
 Act 
080-12-70-13107 
8. The most common Sanskrit form of this construct is the  
shloka 
. In ancient Greek, this can be analyzed 
using units known as  
morae 
, and in many languages it is ascertained and marked using scansion. In English 
literature, this rarely features caesuras and is usually divided into dactyls, trochees, and other “feet” such as 
the iamb. For 10 points, name this term for the rhythmic structure of a line of poetry. 
ANSWER: poetic  
meter 
 [prompt on  
prosody 
; prompt on  
stress 
] 
104-12-70-13108 
9. Certain verbs in this tense are pronounced as if the second accent ague (ahg-YOO) is an accent grave 
(GROV), though usually they are not written to reflect the change. Verbs which become irregular in this 
tense include \"pleuvoir,\" which becomes \"il pleuvra.\" In regular verbs, this tense is formed by taking the 
infinitive as a stem and adding the endings \"ai,\" \"as,\" \"a,\" \"ons,\" \"ez,\" or \"ont.\" For 10 points, name this 
French verb tense, used to refer to actions that will happen after the present. 
ANSWER: French  
future 
 tense [or le  
futur 
] 
019-12-70-13109 
10. A group of later criminal defendants in this country announced themselves in October 2011 by playing 
the song \"Kill the Sexist\" while wearing ski masks. In this country, former members of the art collective 
\"War\" were convicted of the crime \"hooliganism motivated by religious hatred\" after performing a song 
structured as a prayer to the Virgin Mary at the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour. For 10 points, name this 
country where members of an all-female punk band were prosecuted for breaking into an Orthodox church 
to denounce Vladimir Putin. 
ANSWER:  
Russia 
 [or  
Russia 
n Federation] 
019-12-70-13110 
11. Fukui believed that reactions could entirely be modeled by analyzing the so-called \"frontier\" ones. 
These entities are found by finding the radial and angular components of a certain system's wavefunctions. 
One type of these entities is classified by whether they are formed by adding or subtracting wavefunctions 
and can be bonding or antibonding. Large atoms can have g, f, and d varieties of these constructs. Smaller 
atoms have only s and p ones of these. For 10 points, name these approximate paths in which electrons 
travel around the nucleus of an atom. 
ANSWER:  
orbital 
s [accept  
molecular orbital 
s before “molecular”; accept  
atomic orbitals 
 at any time] 
131-12-70-13111 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  2 of 10 
12. The results of this scientist's most famous experiments were published in  
New Experiments 
Physico-Mechanicall, Touching the Spring of the Air and Its Effects 
. In order to conduct those experiments, 
this scientist, inspired by Otto von Guericke (GEH-rih-kuh), had his assistant, Robert Hooke, design a more 
advanced air pump. The publication of his  
The Scepitcal Chymist 
 is considered to have founded modern 
chemistry. For 10 points, identify this scientist who formulated the inverse relationship between the 
pressure and volume of a gas. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Boyle 
066-12-70-13112 
13. This founder of the newspaper  
The Commoner 
 resigned from his last government post after the  
Lusitania 
 sinking made war seem inevitable. This man was called to Tennessee to defend the Butler Act. 
Called the \"Boy Orator of the Platte\" for his Nebraska origins, this man faced off against Clarence Darrow 
in the Scopes Monkey Trial. For 10 points, name this populist and Democrat who lost in three presidential 
elections and gave the \"Cross of Gold\" speech. 
ANSWER: William Jennings  
Bryan 
104-12-70-13113 
14. One king of this country built a stone pyramid called the Bakong. A later king of this country built a 
sandstone shrine called Banteay Srei (BAN-tay SRAY). This country ruled by Indravarman I and 
Jayavarman V was later ruled by a dictator who sought to return to \"Year Zero\" and established the Killing 
Fields. This country once ruled by Pol Pot is home to the temple complex of Angkor Wat. For 10 points, 
name this Southeast Asian country taken over in the 1970s by the Khmer Rouge. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Cambodia 
 [or Preahreacheanachakr  
Kampuchea 
] 
014-12-70-13114 
15. One of this author’s poems begins, “Among the rain and lights I saw the figure 5 in gold.” He used the 
title “Poem” for a work about a cat that stepped down “into the pit of the empty flowerpot.” This author 
wrote “I have eaten the plums that were in the icebox” in his oft-parodied poem “This Is Just to Say.” For 
10 points, name this poet and pediatrician who wrote that “so much depends upon” the title object in “The 
Red Wheelbarrow.” 
ANSWER: William Carlos  
Williams 
015-12-70-13115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 13 
Directed Round 
1A.  Identify the southwestern state of Australia which lies across the Bass Strait from Tanzania, contains 
Melbourne, and is named for a monarch. 
ANSWER:  
Victoria 
1B.  What operation, when applied to two sets, yields a new set that contains all the elements in both of the 
input sets? 
ANSWER:  
union 
2A.  What effect, in which a magnetic field is applied perpendicular to a wire, demonstrates that electrical 
charge carriers are negatively charged? 
ANSWER:  
Hall effect 
2B.  The end of the era of what type of movie was the subject of  
Singin’ in the Rain 
, an example of which 
is the 2011 movie  
The Artist 
?. 
ANSWER:  
silent movies 
 [accept reasonable equivalents] 
3A.  What plant tissue, made of sieve tubes and companion cells, carries nutrients such as sugar through the 
plant? 
ANSWER:  
phloem 
3B.  Name the British poet who wrote \"To a Skylark\" and “Ode to the West Wind.” 
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe  
Shelley 
4A.  What Greek hero rescued Andromeda from a sea monster and was the son of Zeus, who impregnated 
his mother in the form of a shower of gold? 
ANSWER:  
Perseus 
4B.  What American composer of  
Chicester Psalms 
 and the  
Kaddish 
 symphony wrote the score to  
West 
Side Story? 
ANSWER: Leonard  
Bernstein 
5A.  Independence, Overland Park, Lee's Summit, and Shawnee are suburbs of what city, where the Google 
Fiber project, offering free, ultra-high-speed Internet access covering most of the city, began construction 
in September 2012? 
ANSWER:  
Kansas City 
, Missouri 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the positive root of -32x  -36x + 18? 
2 
ANSWER: x =  
3/8 
6A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If the length of each side of a triangle is tripled, how many 
times greater will the area be? 
ANSWER:   times greater 
9 
6B.  What philosopher, who advocated the “five relationships” and the “reification [RAY-if-uh-cay-shun] 
of names,” was an adviser to the King of Lu whose ideas were spread throughout China by disciples and 
the book  
The Analects 
? 
ANSWER:  
Confucius 
 [or  
Kongfuzi 
; or  
Kongzi 
; or  
K’ung-fu-tzu 
; or  
K’ung-tzu 
; or  
Kongqiu 
 (kon-chi); 
or  
Zhongni 
] 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  4 of 10 
7A.  Name these visible aggregates of tiny water droplets or ice crystals in the atmosphere that help warm 
the Earth by reflecting infrared wavelengths. 
ANSWER:  
cloud 
s 
7B.  Which Beatle recorded \"Imagine\" as a solo artist and also recorded albums with his wife, Yoko Ono? 
ANSWER: John Winston Ono  
Lennon 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the positive slope of a line that makes an angle of 60 
degrees with the x-axis? 
ANSWER:  
root 3 
 [or  
radical 3 
; prompt on  
tan(60) 
] 
8B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If there are 8 people in a room and each person shakes the 
hand of every other person exactly once, what is the total number of handshakes? 
ANSWER:  
28 
9A.  What American painter of  
The Gulf Stream 
 painted children enjoying the title game in front of a 
schoolhouse in his work  
Snap the Whip 
? 
ANSWER: Winslow  
Homer 
9B.  What British writer-composer duo produced a series of comic operas including  
The Mikado 
 and  
The 
Pirates of Penzance 
? 
ANSWER: William Schwenk  
Gilbert 
 and Arthur  
Sullivan 
10A.  Which word denotes both the bread divinely given to the Israelites and a magic life force found in the 
belief system of some Pacific islands? 
ANSWER:  
mana 
10B.  This is the number of fluorine atoms attached to the most common molecular form of uranium, as 
well as the smallest number that is the product of two primes. 
ANSWER:  
six 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 13 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In one story by this author, Petro murders the child Ivas in Bear’s Ravine as part of a deal with the devil 
to obtain treasure. This author of “St. John’s Eve” also wrote about the barber Ivan Yakovlevich 
(yuh-KOFF-luh-vitch) cutting open a loaf of bread to discover a body part belonging to Major Kovalyov. In 
another of his stories, the clerk Akaky Akakievich (uh-KAH-kee AH-kah-KYAY-vitch) returns as a ghost 
after he dies in despair from being robbed of the title article of clothing. For 10 points, name this Russian 
author of “The Nose” and “The Overcoat.” 
ANSWER: Nikolai  
Gogol 
014-12-70-13117 
2. In this novel, one character avoids seeing his love interest by sending a requested saddle by courier 
rather than delivering it in person. This novel begins by asserting, “Happy families are all alike; every 
unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” This novel’s secondary plotline follows Levin’s courtship of 
Kitty. After having an affair with Count Vronsky, the title character of this novel ultimately commits 
suicide by throwing herself in front of a train. For 10 points, name this novel by Leo Tolstoy. 
ANSWER:  
Anna Karenina 
014-12-70-13118 
3. While this case was in process, John Catron was urged by the President-elect to settle with the majority 
decision before his inauguration. The plaintiff argued about his trip with the Emerson family to what is now 
Wisconsin, though the defendant in this case was John Sanford. This case's seven to two opinion under 
Chief Justice Roger Taney annulled the Missouri Compromise. For 10 points, name this 1857 case that 
ruled that black people had no rights. 
ANSWER:  
Dred  Scott  v. John F.A. Sandford 
 [or Dred  
Scott 
 decision; accept  
John F.A.  Sandford  v. Dred 
Scott 
 before \"Sandford\" is read] 
104-12-70-13119 
4. This man shared leadership responsibilities for a time with Henri Giraud while headquartered in Algiers. 
This man's BBC broadcast on June 18th urged the people of his country to resist a government run on the 
principles of \"Work, Family, Fatherland\" by Pierre Laval and Philippe Petain. For 10 points, name this man 
who dealt with the Algerian Crisis as president of the Fifth Republic and who led the Free French Forces 
during World War II. 
ANSWER: Charles Andre Joseph Marie  
de Gaulle 
023-12-70-13120 
5. The most common representation of these numbers always normalizes the first bit to one, negating the 
need to store it and providing an extra bit of precision. That representation allows these numbers to be 
represented with a sign, exponent and mantissa, comes in single, double and quad-precision formats and is 
the IEEE 754 standard. Missing entries in the lookup table of the Pentium 5 FPU caused division of these 
numbers to produce incorrect results. For 10 points, identify this representation of real numbers on 
computers, whose data type is commonly \"float.\" 
ANSWER:  
floating-point 
 numbers [or  
float 
s before \"float\" is read] 
066-12-70-13121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  6 of 10 
6. This poet wrote that “Not all the vats upon the Rhine yield such an alcohol!” in a work which begins “I 
taste a liquor never brewed.” Her work was published by her friend Thomas Wentworth Higginson. One of 
her poems begins, “I'm nobody! Who are you? Are you nobody, too?” This poet wrote, \"The carriage held 
but just ourselves - and immortality” in a poem which begins, “Because I could not stop for Death.” For 10 
points, name this reclusive New England poet. 
ANSWER: Emily  
Dickinson 
015-12-70-13122 
7. The reason that carbenes are so reactive is they violate this prinicple. This principle, a consequence of 
Abegg’s rule, is violated by compounds with trigonal bipyramidal and octahedral molecular geometries. 
Other exceptions to it are the electron-deficient compounds, including most of those with boron as a central 
atom. Violators of this rule that have five or more groups surrounding the central atom are said to have 
expanded valence shells. For 10 points, name this chemical rule of thumb that states that central atoms of 
most covalent compounds are surrounded by eight electrons. 
ANSWER:  
octet 
 rule 
131-12-70-13123 
8. One king from this house was an ineffective ruler due to injuries sustained when he was kicked by a 
horse; that was Robert III. An attempt to restore this house to one throne it controlled included the Fifteen 
and Forty-Five Rebellions and was known as Jacobitism. This house's last reigning monarch was Queen 
Anne, whose childless death led George I of Hanover to take the throne. For 10 points, identify this ruling 
house of Scotland and England, whose rulers also included James I and Charles I. 
ANSWER: House of  
Stuart 
 [or  
Stuart 
s] 
019-12-70-13124 
9. This man wrote a work about Fred, Jake, and Bridget’s relationships with their dying father, Andy. This 
author of  
Moonlight 
 depicted Emma and Jerry’s affair in reverse-chronological order in  
Betrayal. 
 This 
playwright created the hitmen Ben and Gus, and, in another work, Meg organizes the title event for Stanley 
Webber, during which he is abducted by McCann and Goldberg. For 10 points, name this British 
playwright of  
The Dumb Waiter 
 and  
The Birthday Party. 
ANSWER: Harold  
Pinter 
191-12-70-13125 
10. At the first one of these events, Mr. T competed against a man whose theme song involved bagpipe 
music, Roddy Piper. At the twentieth of these events, Goldberg and Brock Lesnar competed with Steve 
Austin officiating. In 2011, the twenty-eighth of these events featured the Rock beating John Cena, while 
Hulk Hogan beat Andre the Giant at the third one. For 10 points, name this annual pay-per-view event, run 
every year since 1985 by World Wrestling Entertainment. 
ANSWER:  
WrestleMania 
052-12-70-13126 
11. One approximation related to these objects states that the index of refraction minus one times the 
difference between the reciprocal of the radii of curvature equals the inverse of a certain quantity. That 
approximation is the thin \"this device\" approximation. When an object is placed off their primary axis they 
create comas. Their focal length over their focal length minus their distance from an object is equal to their 
magnifying power. For 10 points, name these optical devices that refract light and come in concave and 
convex forms. 
ANSWER:  
lens 
149-12-70-13127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  7 of 10 
12. This conflict was opposed by the Congressional \"spot resolutions\" that challenged official accounts of 
the Thornton affair. This war merged with the Bear Flag Revolt. This conflict, alluded to in the first line of 
the US Marine Hymn, made Zachary Taylor a household name after Buena Vista. After this war, America 
gained millions of acres by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. For 10 points, name this war during James K. 
Polk's presidency between the US and its southern neighbor. 
ANSWER:  
Mexican 
-American War 
104-12-70-13128 
13. This substance is used to explain why galaxy rotation curves do not drop off as predicted. This 
substance was proposed after Fritz Zwicky's observations of the Coma cluster. It contributes roughly 27 
percent of the universe's energy density. Black holes and neutron stars were proposed as MACHOs, which, 
along with WIMPs, make up the cold form of this substance. For 10 points, name this invisible form of 
matter that is thought to exist in space. 
ANSWER:  
dark matter 
149-12-70-13129 
14. Michelle Alexander wrote about the racist use of these places in her 2010 book  
The New Jim Crow 
. A 
simulation of these places put reflective sunglasses on a man nicknamed “John Wayne.” Michel Foucault 
criticized the Panopticon design for these places, in which one person can see everyone else. A fake one 
was shut down after six days by Philip Zimbardo in an out-of-control Stanford hallway. For 10 points, 
name these institutions with guards and inmates. 
ANSWER:  
prison 
s [or  
jail 
s] 
104-12-70-13130 
15. One tributary of this river gains its name from the clay sediments carried into it above Malakal by the 
Sobat River. Another tributary of this river is sometimes called the Abay River and flows out of Lake Tana. 
Abu Simbel was forced to relocate when a decision was made to dam up this river. The man-made Lake 
Nasser was created by water from this river being diverted by the Aswan High Dam. For 10 points, name 
this river with Blue and White tributaries that is the longest in the world. 
ANSWER:  
Nile 
 River [or Bahr Al- 
Nil 
; or Nahr Al- 
Nil 
] 
023-12-70-13131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 13 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Cancer of the cells producing this hormone can be treated with streptozotocin, and those cells release this 
hormone after the closing of a potassium channel. This hormone is activated after the cleaving off of a 
C-peptide, and it works by binding to a tyrosine kinase receptor. This hormone, released from the beta cells 
of the islets of Langerhans, promotes the synthesis of glycogen and accelerates glycolysis, and is typically 
released after a meal. For 10 points, name this pancreatic hormone that decreases blood sugar levels, which 
is deficient in diabetes. 
ANSWER:  
insulin 
048-12-70-13132 
2. A temple to this ruler in Ankara contained the  
Res Gestae 
, this man's account of his own achievements. 
Invoking his \"moral reforms\" that outlawed adultery, this emperor banished his promiscuous daughter, 
Julia. This ruler screamed, \"Quinctilius Varus, give me back my legions!\" after hearing of the Battle of the 
Teutoburg Forest. This man's general, Agrippa, defeated Mark Antony at the Battle of Actium. For 10 
points, name this adopted son of Julius Caesar and first Roman emperor. 
ANSWER:  
Augustus 
 Caesar [or Gaius Julius Caesar  
Octavian 
us; or Gaius  
Octavius 
; prompt on  
Caesar 
; 
do not accept or prompt on \"Julius Caesar\" or \"Gaius Julius Caesar\"] 
080-12-70-13133 
3. This novelist released a detective story about Doc Sportello titled  
Inherent Vice 
 in 2009. In one of his 
novels, a muted horn is used as a symbol for the postal service Trystero. That novel features Oedipa Maas 
uncovering a conspiracy and attending the title auction. Another of his novels begins, \"A screaming comes 
across the sky,\" and concerns the relationship between Tyrone Slothrop and V-2 rockets. For 10 points, 
name this reclusive author of  
The Crying of Lot 49 
 and  
Gravity’s Rainbow. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Pynchon 
015-12-70-13134 
4. The only known natural, self-sustaining form of the process denoted by this term occurred at Oklo in 
Gabon. In biology, this term is applied to a process in which the protein FtsZ starts the formation of a 
septum. In physics, this term denotes a process first demonstrated by a team led by Otto Hahn. In biology, 
this term applies to a form of bacterial replication and is prefixed by binary when the parent splits into two 
daughters. For 10 points, identify this term that, in physics, is a process in which an atom's nucleus is split 
apart. 
ANSWER:  
fission 
066-12-70-13135 
5. In one work, this man created Clive Durham and Alec Scudder, who are both lovers of the title character, 
Maurice. 
 In another work by this author, Helen tries to help Leonard Bast with advice from Mr. Wilcox, 
costing him his job. That work ends with the union of the Wilcox and Schlegel families at the title estate. 
Another novel by this author of  
Howards End 
 sees Dr. Aziz accused of sexually assaulting Adela Quested 
in the Marabar Caves. For 10 points, name this British author of  
A Passage to India. 
ANSWER: E. M.  
Forster 
 [or Edward Morgan  
Forster 
] 
191-12-70-13136 
This is a calculation question. How many cubes of side length 2 can fit in a cube with side length 10? 
ANSWER:  
125 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  9 of 10 
Name the month of the Islamic calendar in which Muslims must fast from dawn to dusk. 
ANSWER:  
Ramadan 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     13     Page  10 of 10 
