2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 7 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A failed attempt to influence this issue through the courts resulted in the 2006  
Wilkinson v. Kitzinger 
case. Michael Gove and Boris Johnson are among those who have endorsed this status, though Rowan 
Williams has spoken out against it. At the 2011 Conservative Party conference, David Cameron announced 
that he supports this change not \"despite\" but \"because\" of his conservatism. For 10 points, a free vote by 
2015 may implement what change to marriage laws in the United Kingdom? 
ANSWER:  
same-sex 
 marriage in the United Kingdom [or  
gay 
 marriage or other obvious equivalents; or 
\"England\" or \"Wales\" or the \"UK\" in the place of \"United Kingdom\" if given] 
019-13-74-07101 
2. This author wrote about Masuji Ono, a painter in postwar Japan who once made propaganda for the 
Japanese Empire, in  
An Artist of the Floating World. 
 In one of his books, Kathy and Tommy are clones 
bred to die after their fourth organ donation. In another novel by this writer, the butler Stevens takes a trip 
to see Miss Kenton and realizes his boss Lord Darlington was a fascist. For 10 points, name this author of  
Never Let Me Go 
 and  
The Remains of the Day, 
 a British writer of Japanese heritage. 
ANSWER: Kazuo  
Ishiguro 
080-13-74-07102 
3. This man advocated the value of private tutors in  
Some Thoughts Concerning Education 
. While working 
for Anthony Ashley Cooper, he advocated for freedom of religion for everyone but atheists in  
The 
Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina 
. He argued that the human mind originally resembles a \"blank 
slate,\" or \"tabula rasa.\" For 10 points, name this philosopher who wrote the  
Essay Concerning Human 
Understanding 
 and a work influencing the American Founding Fathers,  
Two Treatises of Government. 
ANSWER: John  
Locke 
030-13-74-07103 
4. This author recalled spending the \"Fruitcake Fund\" and getting the dog Queenie drunk in his \"A 
Christmas Memory.\" Randolph manipulates Joel Knox in this man’s novel  
Other Voices, Other Rooms. 
 He 
inspired the character of Dill in his lifelong friend Harper Lee’s  
To Kill a Mockingbird. 
 His own major 
book follows Alvin Dewey's apprehension of Perry Smith and Dick Hickock for the murder of the Clutter 
family. For 10 points, name this author of  
In Cold Blood. 
ANSWER: Truman  
Capote 
 [or Truman Streckfuss  
Parsons 
] 
019-13-74-07104 
5. The speedup gained by using this technique is limited by the time not using it according to Amdahl's 
law. This technique can run into problems if operations are not atomic, because output becomes 
non-deterministic when \"race conditions\" occur, requiring the use of synchronization. A common problem 
to be avoided in this technique is deadlock. For 10 points, name this technique that differs from sequential 
programs by allowing operations to happen simultaneously, as with multiple processors. 
ANSWER:  
parallel 
 computing [or multi- 
thread 
ed computing; or  
concurrent 
 computing; or  
distributed 
computing; or  
multi 
ple  
core 
 computing; or \"processing\" in place of \"computing;\" or  
multi 
ple  
processor 
computing until it is read] 
201-13-74-07105 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  1 of 9 
6. In one scene in this novel, a commander is hindered by the Stone Sentinel Maze. Several characters in it 
take a pledge in the Oath of the Peach Garden. In this novel, the marriage of Lady Sun to Liu Bei is 
planned by Sun Quan after he wins the Battle of Red Cliffs, and the tyranny of Dong Zhou is ended by Lu 
Bu. For 10 points, name this classic Chinese novel which details the turmoil towards the end of the Han 
Dynasty, including a split into multiple realms. 
ANSWER:  
The  Romance of the Three Kingdoms 
 [or  
San Guo Yan Yi 
] 
192-13-74-07106 
7. One of this author’s characters is rescued with his manservant Conseil and the Canadian harpoonist Ned 
Land after the sinking of the  
Abraham Lincoln. 
 Another of his characters marries the Indian princess 
Aouda, is pursued by the detective Inspector Fix, and is served by Passepartout. One novel by this author 
concerns the submerged  
Nautilus 
 and its Captain Nemo. For 10 points, name this French author of  
Around 
the World in Eighty Days 
 and  
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. 
ANSWER: Jules  
Verne 
015-13-74-07107 
8. For fluid flow, this quantity is equal to flow rate times pressure. For a sinusoidal signal, this quantity is 
equal to the absolute value of the amplitude squared. It is equal to current times voltage for electrical 
components. In optics, one form of it is measured with diopters. This quantity is also given by the force 
dotted by the velocity vector, and its units are Joules per second, or watts. For 10 points, name this quantity 
equal to work done per unit time. 
ANSWER:  
power 
048-13-74-07108 
9. These people paid a namesake \"rent\" of a penny per month to support an organization advocating for 
their political rights. The Duke of Wellington's government allied with Robert Peel to revoke the Test Act, 
allowing these people to serve in Parliament. Daniel O'Connell led the campaign for the \"emancipation\" of, 
for 10 points, what religious group, that had been suppressed in British politics since Henry VIII formed the 
Anglican church? 
ANSWER:  
Catholics 
 in the United Kingdom 
019-13-74-07109 
10. Although not the Moon, the surface of an object with this name features lobate scarps. That object is 
also home to the \"Weird Terrain,\" which lies antipodal to the Caloris Basin. When bonded to sulfur, a metal 
of this name forms cinnabar. MESSENGER mapped that object with this name. The element with this 
name is a silvery liquid at room temperature, which led to its use in thermometers, despite its toxicity. For 
10 points, name the object that is closest to the Sun. 
ANSWER:  
mercury 
149-13-74-07110 
11. In 1989, the holder of this position was accused of engineering the \"Bounty Bowl\" game. The person 
who held this job from 1976 to 1982 retired due to \"burnout,\" two years after losing the Super Bowl to the 
Raiders. In addition to Buddy Ryan and Dick Vermeil, this job has been filled by a man who made five 
NFC Championship Game appearances before an injury to Michael Vick during the disastrous 2012 season. 
For 10 points, name this job that Andy Reid was fired from in December 2012. 
ANSWER: head  
coach 
 of the Philadelphia  
Eagles 
 [or head  
coach 
 of the  
Philadelphia 
 Eagles] 
019-13-74-07111 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  2 of 9 
12. David Sharp died while trying to do this feat and was reportedly ignored by passerby. Jon Krakauer’s 
book  
Into Thin Air 
 was about his experiences doing it. People who engage in this feat pass through the 
Khumbu Icefall, a section which has killed many Sherpas. For 10 points, name this feat first achieved by 
Tenzing Norgay and Sir Edmund Hillary, which involves ascending the tallest peak in the world. 
ANSWER:  
climbing 
 Mount  
Everest 
 [or  
Sagarmatha 
 or  
Chomolungma 
 in place of \"Everest\"] 
052-13-74-07112 
13. A Cauchy sequence in a complete metric space is automatically of this type. The root test is one method 
designed to test for this property. This property does not hold for arithmetic sequences or the harmonic 
series. All geometric series for which r is less than one exhibit this property. A sequence has this property if 
and only if it has a limit. For 10 points, name this property that a sequence has if its values gradually 
approach a certain number, the opposite of divergent. 
ANSWER:  
convergent 
 [or word forms] 
131-13-74-07113 
14. Music events in this city include the Earshot Jazz Festival and Bumbershoot. This city's native son 
Joshua Ramus joined Rem Koolhas to design its public library. The namesake of this city ceded the land for 
it in the Treaty of Port Elliott. Suburbs including Everett, Bellevue, and Redmond surround this city. A 
major landmark here was built for the 1962 World’s Fair and provides a view of Mount Rainier from its 
top. For 10 points, name this city on Puget Sound, the home of the Space Needle in Washington. 
ANSWER:  
Seattle 
019-13-74-07114 
15. At a hearing in this novel, a woman testifies that an earring found in a furnace belonged to her daughter, 
and a dead body is wheeled into the courtroom by the sensationalist coroner. The private detective Britten 
fails to intimidate the protagonist, but the prosecutor Buckley succeeds in extracting a confession. The 
lawyer Boris Max questions Mr. Dalton about the poor conditions of tenements in, for 10 points, what 
novel in which Mary is killed by Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright? 
ANSWER:  
Native Son 
019-13-74-07115 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 7 
Directed Round 
1A.  The city of Nagasaki is found on what island of Japan, the southernmost of the four major islands? 
ANSWER:  
Kyushu 
1B.  The macroeconomic definition of aggregate demand is the sum of consumer consumption, government 
spending, net exports, and what fourth quantity? 
ANSWER: private  
investment 
2A.  Continental mountain ranges are mainly formed in what process, which creates namesake \"belts\" as 
various tectonic plates collide? 
ANSWER:  
orogeny 
 [or  
orogenesis 
] 
2B.  What leader stopped his country's nuclear aid to China and started Mao's fear of revisionism by giving 
his speech \"On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences\"? 
ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich  
Khrushchev 
3A.  “Legs,” “Sleeping Bag,” and “Sharp Dressed Man” were among the 1980s hits of what band, known 
for their Texas rock sound and their long beards? 
ANSWER:  
ZZ Top 
3B.  Robert Browning's \"My Last Duchess\" and \"Andrea del Sarto\" are examples of what type of poem in 
which a persona reveals his thoughts at a specific point in time to a specific audience? 
ANSWER:  
dramatic monologue 
4A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the volume of a cube with surface area 24 square 
centimeters? 
ANSWER:   cubic centimeters 
8 
4B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. The sum of the digits of a two-digit number is 12. When the 
digits are reversed, the new number is exactly 18 more than the old number. What is the original number? 
ANSWER:  
57 
5A.  Name the composer who included the aria “Softly awakes my heart” in his opera  
Samson and Delilah 
and also wrote  
Carnival of the Animals. 
ANSWER: Camille  
Saint-Saëns 
5B.  Gustave Caillebotte (KYE-uh-bot) sits on a chair in the bottom right, while the painter's wife plays 
with a dog, in what Renoir (reh-NWAH) painting set on the Maison Fournaise (foor-NAY), depicting a 
group of people enjoying a meal? 
ANSWER:  
Luncheon of the Boating Party 
 [or  
Le  déjeuner des canotiers 
] 
6A.  What object is known as \"zvezda\" (zuh-VEZ-duh) in Russian, \"kohav\" (COH-hov) in Hebrew, and 
\"stella\" in Latin? 
ANSWER: a  
star 
6B.  What character mentors Candide and proclaims that we live in the \"best of all possible worlds\"? 
ANSWER: Doctor  
Pangloss 
7A.  Name the architect who designed Ohio University’s Punch Card Park, the Montgomery, Alabama 
Civil Rights Memorial, and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. 
ANSWER: Maya Ying  
Lin 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  What Indian prime minister was assassinated by her bodyguards after ordering Operation Blue Star on 
the Golden Temple at Amritsar? 
ANSWER:  ndira Priyadarshini  
I Gandhi 
 [prompt on  
Gandhi 
] 
8A.  What isotope of hydrogen is found in heavy water and has one proton and one neutron in its nucleus? 
ANSWER:  
deuterium 
8B.  What quantity, unlike total energy, is conserved by both elastic and inelastic collisions? 
ANSWER: linear  
momentum 
 [do not accept \"angular momentum\"] 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. You pay $2 to play a game in which 1/3 of the time you win 
nothing, 1/3 of the time you win $1, and 1/3 of the time you win $4. To the nearest cent, how much money 
do you expect to lose? 
ANSWER:   cents [or  
33 $0.33 
] 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is sine theta times cosine theta when theta equals 75 
degrees? 
ANSWER:  
1/4 
 [or  
0.25 
] 
10A.  What movement during the Radical segment of the Protestant Reformation emphasized pacifism, 
autonomy from the larger society, and the idea that infants could not choose to accept Christianity, and 
survives today as groups such as the Amish and the Mennonites? 
ANSWER:  
Anabaptism 
 [or  
Anabaptist 
s, etc] 
10B.  Identify the symphonic suite by Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov which was inspired by, and named for the 
narrator of, the  
Arabian Nights. 
ANSWER:  
Scheherazade 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 7 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A mixture of o-xylene and acetone can be used to illustrate this law, which applies best to substances 
whose mixing enthalpy is zero. One side of the equation subject to this law can be multiplied by the 
fugacity coefficient and the other by the activity coefficient to account for non-ideality. For 10 points, name 
this law from solution chemistry, stating that the vapor pressure for a solution is equal to the sum of the 
product of the vapor pressure of each component times its mole fraction. 
ANSWER:  
Raoult 
's Law 
048-13-74-07117 
2. The speaker of this poem exclaims, \"Thou, silent form! dost tease us out of thought as doth eternity.\" 
This poem extols a \"bold lover\" whose beloved \"cannot fade\" and \"happy boughs\" that cannot shed their 
leaves. This poem addresses a \"still unravished bride of quietness,\" a work of art that teaches man, \"Beauty 
is truth, truth beauty.\" For 10 points, name this poem by John Keats about a piece of ancient pottery. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ode on a Grecian Urn 
\" 
080-13-74-07118 
3. One December 2012 incident in this state resulted in the hospitalization of Joseph Hofstetter and 
Theodore Scardino. That incident in this state was perpetrated by a man who wrote that what he liked doing 
best was \"killing people.\" William Spengler killed two firefighters in this state. This state's largest city is 
home to a controversial \"stop and frisk\" law which its mayor declined to end. For 10 points, identify this 
state whose largest city is governed by mayor Michael Bloomberg. 
ANSWER:  
New York 
189-13-74-07119 
4. This city's government was dominated by a large assembly known as the \"apella\" and a smaller body, 
named for the advanced age of its members, the \"gerousia.\" Legendarily, its government was designed by 
Lycurgus. The Agiad and Eurypontid lines provided the two kings who simultaneously ruled this city, 
which annually declared the \"krypteia,\" a period of time in which its slave class, or helots, were hunted. For 
10 points, name this highly militarized Greek city-state that won the Peloponnesian War. 
ANSWER:  
Sparta 
 [or  
Lacedaemon 
] 
019-13-74-07120 
5. One person who held this office in the 1950s chaired hearings on the Mafia and juvenile delinquency 
caused by comic books, and ran as Adlai Stevenson's second vice-presidential nominee. This office was 
held by Estes Kefauver and, for two terms, by actor Fred Thompson. From 2003 until 2007, a holder of this 
office was also the Majority Leader; that was Bill Frist. It was previously held by both the senior and junior 
Al Gore. For 10 points, name this legislative office now held by Bob Corker and Lamar Alexander. 
ANSWER: United States  
Senator 
 from  
Tennessee 
 [prompt on United States  
Senator 
] 
019-13-74-07121 
6. One group which appeared on the 2012 season of this show abandoned the names \"LYLAS\" and \"1432\" 
and performed the Shontelle song \"Impossible\" twice on this show. That group, Fifth Harmony, finished 
third in the 2012 season of this show, which ended with L.A. Reid announcing his departure from a judge 
position. Tate Stevens defeated Carly Rose Sonenclar in the finale of, for 10 points, what FOX singing 
competition show also judged by Simon Cowell, Demi Lovato, and Britney Spears? 
ANSWER:  
The  X Factor 
019-13-74-07122 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  6 of 9 
7. This author wrote that \"Too long a sacrifice can make a stone of the heart\" in one poem, three of whose 
four stanzas end with the line \"A terrible beauty is born.\" This writer, who loved a revolutionary named 
Maud Gonne, helped Lady Gregory found the Abbey Theater. A poem by this writer begins with the image 
of a falcon \"turning in the widening gyre\" and asks, \"What rough beast...slouches towards Bethlehem to be 
born?\" For 10 points, name this Irish poet of \"Easter, 1916\" and \"The Second Coming.\" 
ANSWER: William Butler  
Yeats 
080-13-74-07123 
8. This statement can be extended to three-dimensional figures, according to de Gua's theorem. Its solutions 
always include two odd numbers. This statement cannot be proven trigonometrically, because 
trigonometric identities are proven using it. It is a specific case of the law of cosines, in which one of the 
involved angles is ninety degrees. For 10 points, identify this theorem used to find the hypotenuse of a right 
triangle, commonly expressed as \"A-squared plus B-squared equals C-squared.\" 
ANSWER:  
Pythagorean 
 theorem 
189-13-74-07124 
9. This author edited the periodical  
Merry’s Museum 
 and wrote the book  
Silver Pitchers, 
 which documents 
the failure of Fruitlands, the utopian community founded by her transcendentalist father Bronson. She 
wrote the sequels  
Good Wives 
 and  
Jo's Boys 
 to continue the story of Professor Bhaer and the March sisters 
that she established in her most noted novel. For 10 points, name this author who created Beth, Meg, and 
Amy in  
Little Women. 
ANSWER: Louisa May  
Alcott 
019-13-74-07125 
10. A condition associated with muscular dystrophy, Coats’ disease, affects this structure. One type of cell 
in this structure utilizes cGMP to allow a steady flow of sodium ions. This structure utilizes bipolar cells in 
its “indirect” pathway, while amacrine cells in it project to ganglion cells. One disease affecting this 
structure is its namesake \"pigmentosa.\" Its central portion is known as the macula. For 10 points, name this 
layer of the eye that contains photoreceptor cells, such as rods and cones. 
ANSWER:  
retina 
192-13-74-07126 
11. The last of three clauses in Article IV, Section 2 of the Constitution mandated that this kind of law be 
passed. These laws were upheld by the cases of  
Prigg v. Pennsylvania 
 and  
Ableman v. Booth 
, both of 
which overturned the \"personal liberty laws\" aimed at contravening this kind of law. Part of the 
Compromise of 1850 was a harsh law of this kind. For 10 points, identify these controversial laws which 
mandated that escapees who reached the North be returned to the South. 
ANSWER:  
fugitive slave 
 laws [or  
fugitive slave 
 acts] 
019-13-74-07127 
12. One study of this disease, led by John Cutler, involved treating intentionally infected Guatemalans with 
penicillin. Malaria was used to treat the late stages of this condition until the 1940s. Salvarsan, a \"magic 
bullet\" developed by Paul Ehrlichy, was the first effective treatment for this disease. Researchers in the 
\"Tuskegee experiment\" allowed six hundred black men with this disease to go untreated for forty years. For 
10 points, name this sexually transmitted disease. 
ANSWER:  
syphilis 
131-13-74-07128 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  7 of 9 
13. This practice was upheld in the 1937  
Breedlove v. Suttles 
 Supreme Court case, though it was 
completely outlawed by 1966's  
Harper 
 decision. The  
Harman v. Forssenius 
 case did not accept a residency 
requirement as a substitute for this practice. It was outlawed in federal elections by the Twenty-Fourth 
Amendment, and, like literacy tests, could be avoided through the grandfather clause. For 10 points, name 
this Southern practice under which a flat fee had to be paid to vote. 
ANSWER:  
poll tax 
019-13-74-07129 
14. The site for this city was chosen after one man saw twelve vultures. In the underworld, Anchises told 
his son that his descendants would rule this place. It was founded by the sons of Rhea Silvia, who were 
saved by a she-wolf after being left to die of exposure. One of is founders killed the other in an argument 
over building a wall. Wives for its original settlers were taken from the Sabines at a festival for Neptune. 
For 10 points, name this city, legendarily founded by Romulus and Remus. 
ANSWER:  
Rome 
121-13-74-07130 
15. The ACE and the UVCS instrument on the SOHO mission are designed to study this phenomenon. This 
phenomenon twists a certain magnetic field into the Parker spiral. The boundary between this phenomenon 
and the interstellar medium is called the bow shock. Its interaction with the Earth's magnetic field forms the 
magnetosphere. It's the reason that comet tails always point away from the sun. For 10 points, name this 
phenomenon, a stream of charged particles ejected from the atmosphere of the sun. 
ANSWER:  
solar wind 
 [or  
stellar wind 
] 
048-13-74-07131 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 7 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. One group of cells in this organ secrete NPY; that is this structure’s arcuate nucleus. This structure’s 
ventromedial nucleus responds to increased leptin levels to signal satiety. This structure’s pre-optic nucleus 
is responsible for triggering the release of sex hormones. Cell bodies in this organ are responsible for 
synthesizing oxytocin and ADH. This structure uses the hypophyseal portal system to send releasing factors 
to the pituitary gland. For 10 points, name this master regulator of homeostasis, located in the brain. 
ANSWER:  
hypothalamus 
 [prompt on  
brain 
] 
048-13-74-07132 
2. In this novel, a letter from the suicidal Littlepaugh reveals graft in the filling of a high-paying power 
company job. Following Tom’s paralysis during a football game in this novel, and the suicide of Judge 
Irwin, Anne Stanton’s affair is revealed to Adam, who responds by assassinating the governor. Jack 
Burden helps Willie Stark consolidate power in, for 10 points, what novel, based on the Huey Long 
administration and written by Robert Penn Warren? 
ANSWER:  
All the King’s Men 
019-13-74-07133 
3. Variations of this technique include FLAIR. This technique, which often uses gadolinium-containing 
contrast agents, is based on measuring the T1 and T2 relaxation time after an RF pulse. This technique is 
dependent upon the presence of water in tissues. It is often used to diagnose muscle injuries and brain 
tumors. For 10 points, name this medical imaging technique that uses the same principle as NMR. 
ANSWER:  
MRI 
 [or  
magnetic resonance imaging 
; prompt on  
NMR 
; prompt on  
nuclear magnetic 
resonance 
] 
048-13-74-07134 
4. Those who helped find the rebel Tsali during this event were allowed to settle the Qualla Boundary. 
Elias Boudinot and Stand Watie negotiated a treaty orchestrating this event with John Ross at New Echota. 
Attempts to forestall this event included the case  
Worcester v. Georgia 
. This event caused the death of 
about four thousand of its fifteen thousand participants, who were moved to what became Oklahoma. For 
10 points, name this brutal 1838 forced migration of the Cherokee. 
ANSWER:  
Trail of Tears 
 [prompt on descriptive answers such as  
Cherokee migration 
 or  
Indian 
removal 
] 
019-13-74-07135 
5. In French Canadians, the most common cause of this disease is a G to A splice site mutation in intron 
seven. Another mutation that causes it is a four basepair insertion in exon eleven. This disease is caused by 
mutations in the gene encoding hexaminosidase A, leading to a buildup of gangliosides. This 
autosomal-recessive disease commonly causes death in infancy. For 10 points, name this disease, common 
in Ashkenazi Jews, in which certain fats build up in the brain. 
ANSWER:  
Tay-Sachs 
 disease 
048-13-74-07136 
This is a calculation question. In radians, what is the arcsine of negative one half? 
ANSWER:  
-pi/6 
 radians [do not accept or prompt \"pi/6 radians\" or \"-30 degrees\"] 
At what 1781 battle did Lord Cornwallis surrender, ending British hopes to win the Revolutionary War? 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Yorktown 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regionals     7     Page  9 of 9 
