2013 NHB Set B 
Bee Round 1 
BEE ROUND 1 
1. This event was a response to the revocation of the right of deposit and other signs that the Treaty of San 
Ildefonso might have negative consequences for Americans. The Marquis de Barbé-Marbois 
(bar-BAY-mar-BWAH) negotiated this action with Robert Livingston and James Monroe, earning eleven 
million dollars for a French treasury hurt by the slave revolt in Haiti. For the point, identify this 1803 
acquisition by the Jefferson administration of what became parts of fourteen states. 
ANSWER: the  
Louisiana Purchase 
019-13-89-11101 
2. This position is currently held by a man who proclaimed a 2011 three-day period of prayer for rain to 
stop dangerous wildfires. That current holder of this position said it was unfortunate that a former teenage 
mother \"hasn't learned from her own example\" by opposing restrictions on abortion through her filibuster. 
Some predict that state senator Wendy Davis will run for this position in 2014. For the point, name this 
political position currently held by Rick Perry. 
ANSWER:  
Governor of Texas 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
052-13-89-11102 
3. This man composed a funeral march in memory of the executed Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico. 
Female admirers of this man stored his used cigar butts in their cleavage. His  
Les preludes 
 popularized the 
symphonic poem genre, and he made extensive transcriptions of Beethoven's symphonies. His most 
recognizable piece is the second in a set of nineteen tunes based on Gypsy music. For the point, name this 
Romantic composer of the  
Hungarian Rhapsodies, 
 for whom there was a \"mania.\" 
ANSWER: Franz  
Liszt 
 [or Ferenc Ritter von  
Liszt 
] 
020-13-89-11103 
4. Alexander the Great allegedly visited this city to complete a vision of meeting the priest Jaddua. This 
city served as the capital for the Hasmonean dynasty. The destruction of this city was carried out by forces 
under Titus and Vespasian. A siege of this city ended in 70 CE on the Ninth of Av (AHV), with the 
destruction of the Second Temple. For the point, name this city that was the center of ancient Judea and is 
now the seat of the Knesset (kuh-NESS-it) in Israel. 
ANSWER:  
Jerusalem 
 [or  
Yerushalayim 
; or  
Bayt al-Muqaddas 
; or Al- 
Quds 
] 
023-13-89-11104 
5. One leader of this country previously served as the MP of the Baringo Central Constituency, and was 
succeeded by a member of the National Rainbow Coalition. Evelyn Baring approved the arrest of the 
Kapenguria (gah-PEN-guh-REE-ah) Six in this country, whose politics have included people such as 
Oginga Odinga and Daniel arap Moi. This country's Kikuyu (gih-KOO-yoo) ethnic plurality conducted the 
Mau Mau Rebellion. For the point, identify this African state, the homeland of Barack Obama's father. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Kenya 
189-13-89-11105 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 1     Page  1 of 6 
6. The Senate committee investigating this event employed both a young Hillary Clinton and future  
Law & 
Order 
 star Fred Dalton Thompson as advising attorneys. During this scandal, Elliot Richardson and 
William Ruckelshaus resigned rather than fire Archibald Cox in the \"Saturday Night Massacre.\" This 
scandal was named for the hotel where the Democratic National Committee was headquartered. For the 
point, name this political scandal that forced President Richard Nixon to resign. 
ANSWER: the  
Watergate 
 Scandal 
186-13-89-11106 
7. Uncertainty about the exact location of a fight near this international boundary led Abraham Lincoln to 
introduce the \"Spot Resolutions.\" Advocates for a potential transcontinental railroad route moved this 
boundary south by the Treaty of La Mesilla (may-SEE-yah). This boundary was also moved in a treaty 
negotiated by Nicholas Trist. For the point, identify this boundary between two countries that changed 
following the Gadsden Purchase and the Treaty of Guadalupe (gwa-duh-LOO-pay) Hidalgo. 
ANSWER: the  
border 
 between the  nited  tates and  
U S Mexico 
 [or equivalent descriptions] 
023-13-89-11107 
8. One of these wars involved French forces following the beheading of the missionary Auguste 
Chapdelaine; that war started when officials boarded the  
Arrow 
 and lowered a British flag. The other of 
these wars was sparked in part by sailors killing a villager in the Kowloon incident. British victories in both 
of these wars resulted in the unequal Treaties of Nanjing and Tianjin. For the point, name these wars 
sparked by British interest in continuing to export a drug to China. 
ANSWER:  
Opium 
 Wars [prompt on  
Anglo-Chinese 
 Wars] 
023-13-89-11108 
9. Images of this event were made by Jonathan Mulliken and engraver Henry Pelham, who influenced 
public opinion against the eventual acquittal of Thomas Preston. Rock-filled snowballs were thrown on 
King Street before this event, in which the free black man Crispus Attucks died in front of a customs house 
along with four others. For the point, name this 1770 event where British troops fired at a colonial crowd. 
ANSWER:  
Boston Massacre 
 [or Bloody  
Massacre 
 on  
King 
 Street until \"King\" is read] 
104-13-89-11109 
10. This man wrote about a visitor from the Sirius system who is twenty thousand feet tall and 450 years 
old. He also described a Babylonian prime minister who wins Astarte as his bride after a tournament of wits 
and arms. This author of  
Micromegas 
 and  
Zadig 
 wrote a novel in which Dr. Pangloss tries to convince the 
lover of Cunegonde that we live in the best of all possible worlds. For the point, name this French author of 
Candide. 
ANSWER:  
Voltaire 
 [or Francois-Marie  
Arouet 
] 
030-13-89-11110 
11. During this person's vaudeville act, she quit after someone threw an egg at her. This woman published  
The Smasher's Mail 
 and believed God told her to go to Kiowa, Kansas, to begin her work. Dissatisfied with 
the peaceful practices of the WCTU, she was arrested multiple times for her \"hatchetations.\" For the point, 
name this woman who originally used a cache of rocks but soon became notorious for using an axe to 
attack bars in order to support temperance. 
ANSWER: Carrie Amelia Moore  
Nation 
052-13-89-11111 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 1     Page  2 of 6 
12. After this battle, Gytha (GITH-uh) offered a large ransom for the body of her son. This battle came a 
month after Harald Hardrada and Tostig were defeated at Stamford Bridge by Harold Godwinson, who 
himself supposedly died at this battle when an arrow went into his eye. This battle and the events preceding 
it, such as the death of Edward the Confessor, are depicted on the Bayeux Tapestry. For the point, identify 
this 1066 battle, the keystone of William of Normandy's conquest of England. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Hastings 
233-13-89-11112 
13. Mary, Queen of Scots often performed this activity with John Knox. Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II 
wrote an authoritative guide to this activity. The etymological origin of the word \"codger\" is a piece of 
equipment used for this activity, whose performers executed a \"hoodwink\" in order to retrieve their prize. 
Semantic purists distinguish this activity from austringing, but both use raptors. For the point, name this 
popular medieval practice of using a bird of prey to hunt. 
ANSWER:  
falcon 
ry [or  
austring 
ing until it is read; prompt on  
hunt 
ing; prompt on  
husbandry 
] 
020-13-89-11113 
14. During a war named for this man, people who followed his doctrines engaged in the \"beautiful rides\" 
and were defeated at the Battle of Lipany. A movement named for this man broke into factions including 
the Utraquists and the Taborites. King Sigismund promised this man safe passage to the Council of 
Constance, though he was in fact executed as a heretic there for expounding doctrines similar to those of 
John Wycliffe. For the point, name this Czech proto-Protestant who was burned at the stake. 
ANSWER: Jan  
Hus 
019-13-89-11114 
15. This author of the apologetic tract  
The Reasonableness of Christianity 
 advocated that all people except 
Catholics and atheists be granted religious freedom in  
A Letter Concerning Toleration. 
 He hypocritically 
wrote slavery into the  
Fundamental Constitutions of the Carolinas. 
 For the point, name this philosopher 
who influenced American democracy with his positive view of natural rights and the social contract in the  
Two Treatises on Government. 
ANSWER: John  
Locke 
120-13-89-11115 
16. One portrait of a person with this title was modified by adding two haunches of a cow carcass in  
Figure 
with Meat. 
 Twentieth-century painter Francis Bacon also painted this type of man \"Screaming.\" In a 
Jacques-Louis David painting, a person in this role sits in a white robe behind Napoleon as he crowns 
Josephine. A man in this office held a letter and sat in an ornate chair for Diego Velazquez. For the point, 
name this religious office commemorated by the  
Portrait of Innocent X. 
ANSWER:  
Pope 
 [or the  
Papacy 
; or  
Pontiff 
] 
104-13-89-11116 
17. This conflict is the setting of missions starring Nathaniel Black in  
Age of Empires III: The War Chiefs. 
In a game set during this conflict, the player-character duels Haytham Kenway in Fort George and is a 
half-Mohawk named Connor. This conflict is the setting of  
Assassin’s Creed III, 
 as well as a 1992 game in 
which one can play as Artemas Ward, William Howe, or Thomas Gage. For the point, identify this war, the 
setting of the Super Nintendo game  
Liberty or Death. 
ANSWER: American  
Revolution 
ary War 
048-13-89-11117 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 1     Page  3 of 6 
18. A caparisoned, riderless horse named Black Jack participated in this ceremony. Stan Stearns took an 
iconic photograph of a boy celebrating his third birthday and saluting his father at this event. In 2013, the 
Eternal Flame lit during this event was shared, honoring Irish immigrants. This November 25, 1963 
ceremony occurred at Arlington National Cemetery. For the point, identify this memorial service which 
occurred two days after Lee Harvey Oswald shot the President. 
ANSWER: John Fitzgerald  
Kennedy 
’s state  
funeral 
 [or obvious equivalents; or  
funeral 
 of  
JFK 
 or 
equivalents] 
190-13-89-11118 
19. The New York Mets reportedly passed on drafting this man because he was dating a white girlfriend. 
During an All-Star Game at Tiger Stadium, he hit a ball into a transformer on the roof. This player angered 
teammates including Thurman Munson by saying he was the \"straw that stirs the drink.\" During the 1977 
World Series, he hit three home runs in one game on three consecutive pitches. For the point, name this 
New York Yankees outfielder known as \"Mr. October.\" 
ANSWER: Reginald \"Reggie\"  
Jackson 
052-13-89-11119 
20. One man with this name lost his life fighting against Artaxerxes (ARR-tuh-zerk-sees) II's forces at 
Cunaxa (coo-NOCK-suh), resulting in the march of the Ten Thousand. A king of this name established 
founded Pasargadae (pass-uh-GAR-die), left behind a cylinder declaring himself the ruler of Babylon, and 
returned the Jews from their Babylonian captivity. For the point, give this name of the creator of the satrap 
system and founder of the Achaemaenid (uk-EYE-muh-nid) Empire, a \"great\" Persian ruler. 
ANSWER:  
Cyrus 
 [or  
Cyrus 
 the Younger; or  
Cyrus 
 the Great; or  
Cyrus 
 II] 
020-13-89-11120 
21. This king temporarily supported reforms proposed by Charles-Alexandre de Calonne. On the advice of 
the comte de Mirabeau, this king attempted to abdicate and flee the country, but was caught at Varennes 
(vah-REN). He dismissed finance minister Jacques Necker, who was blamed for the massive debt this king 
accrued by intervening in the American Revolution, forcing him to convene the Estates-General. For the 
point, name this husband of Marie Antoinette who was executed during the French Revolution. 
ANSWER:  
Louis XVI 
 [prompt on  
Louis 
] 
080-13-89-11121 
22. Charles Davenport's experiments in Jamaica influenced this theory's prevalence in the U.S. This theory 
drove the popularity of \"Better Baby\" contests and inspired the Supreme Court decision  
Buck v. Bell. 
Formulated by Charles Darwin's cousin, Francis Galton, it inspired the racial theories of the Nazis. For the 
point, name this pseudo-scientific theory holding that society should promote the reproduction of 
individuals with superior genomes. 
ANSWER:  
eugenics 
 [prompt on scientific  
racism 
 or similar answers] 
080-13-89-11122 
23. A group of nine of these sites located near Mycenae includes one that Pausanius called the Treasury of 
Atreus. A type of these sites built in ancient Greece, with a dromos (DROH-mohs) leading to a beehive-like 
interior, was called a tholos. Pithius was responsible for building another type of this site, which was 
constructed for a ruler of Caria by Artemisia II. For the point, name these sites that included a Wonder of 
the World in Halicarnassus, and which were created to house remains. 
ANSWER:  
tomb 
s [or  
mausoleum 
s; or  
burial 
 sites; or  
grave 
s; accept equivalent answers] 
023-13-89-11123 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 1     Page  4 of 6 
24. The first successful step of this scientific endeavor was completed under the University of Chicago's 
football field. This Leslie Groves-led effort created \"The Gadget,\" which was used at the White Sands 
Proving Ground in Alamogordo as part of the Trinity test. This effort was partially caused by a letter from 
Leo Szilard and Albert Einstein, and was spearheaded by J. Robert Oppenheimer. For the point, identify 
this research project that produced Fat Man and Little Boy, the first atomic bombs. 
ANSWER:  
Manhattan 
 Project 
233-13-89-11124 
25. A memorial to this battle is located on Mamayev Hill. Erich von Manstein was unable to relieve one 
side in this battle, which included Operation Uranus. The defense in this battle was commanded by Vasily 
Chuikov (chuh-WEE-kov). Friedrich Paulus was promoted to field marshal during this battle with a 
reminder that no German officer of that rank had ever surrendered. For the point, name this decisive World 
War II battle that saw over two million casualties in a southwestern Soviet city. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Stalingrad 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"Volgograd\"] 
030-13-89-11125 
26. At Rochester, this man claimed that the U.S. would eventually become entirely either slave or free in 
his \"Irrepressible Conflict\" speech. This politician invoked a \"Higher Law\" in his argument to admit 
California as a free state. This man was targeted for assassination by Lewis Powell, a conspirator of John 
Wilkes Booth, before he negotiated a deal with Alexander II for two cents an acre. For the point, name this 
Secretary of State under Lincoln and Johnson, whose \"folly\" was the purchase of Alaska. 
ANSWER: William Henry  
Seward 
020-13-89-11126 
27. This man’s doctoral dissertation was  
The Suppression of the African Slave-Trade to the United States of 
America, 
 and he performed the first case study of a black community in the U.S. Late in his life, this man 
renounced his citizenship and moved to Ghana. He founded the Niagara Movement to attack the Atlanta 
Compromise of Booker T. Washington, and he edited the newsletter  
The Crisis. 
 For the point, name this 
co-founder of the NAACP who wrote  
The Souls of Black Folk. 
ANSWER: William Edward Burghardt  
Du Bois 
 (doo BOYZ, but accept doo BWAH) 
030-13-89-11127 
28. While its leader sheltered Charles XII of Sweden, this empire soundly won the brief Pruth River 
Campaign. This empire's loss in a 1770s war led to its signing of the Treaty of Kucuk Kaynarca (KUCH-uk 
kuh-NAR-juh), and it granted independence to several present-day countries in the Treaty of San Stefano. 
This empire intermittently fought with Russia for nearly five hundred years. For the point, identify this 
empire that was called \"the sick man of Europe.\" 
ANSWER:  
Ottoman 
 Empire 
233-13-89-11128 
29. At a battle in this war, John Cutts forced a diversion, and an attack across the Nebel River resulted in 
the capture of Tallard. That fight during this war was a victory for the forces of Eugene of Savoy and the 
Duke of Marlborough in the Battle of Blenheim (BLEN-um). Britain gained the asiento (ah-see-EN-toh) as 
a result of this war, which confirmed the start of Bourbon rule under Philip V. For the point, name this war, 
ended by the Peace of Utrecht, that was started by the death of Charles II. 
ANSWER: War of the  
Spanish Succession 
023-13-89-11129 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 1     Page  5 of 6 
30. One member of this tribe reputedly healed Joseph Kellogg's smallpox. The first canonized American 
Indian was known as the \"Lily\" of this tribe. A soldier from this tribe, Joseph Brant, assisted the British 
during the Revolutionary War. This tribe was the most easterly in the Iroquois Confederation. The Sons of 
Liberty disguised themselves as warriors of this tribe during the Boston Tea Party. For the point, name this 
tribe which, according to Hollywood, wore only a strip of hair down the center. 
ANSWER:  
Mohawk 
s 
020-13-89-11130 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 1     Page  6 of 6 
