VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 1 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Reactive oxygen species formed in this organelle can be disproportionated by superoxide dismutase. The 
malate-aspartate shuttle moves electrons around this organelle. FAD+ (F A D plus) is reduced to FADH2 
(F A D H 2) in this organelle. Bcl-2 controls the release of cytochrome c from this organelle at the start of 
apoptosis (EY-pop-TOH-siss). This organelle's DNA is inherited maternally. Its matrix is formed by folds 
of the inner membrane called cristae. For 10 points, name this organelle in which the Krebs cycle and the 
electron transport chain occur as part of cellular respiration. 
ANSWER:  
mitochondria 
 [or  
mitochondrion 
] 
190-13-96-01101 
2. The third chapter of this novel devolves into three simultaneous conversations, presented completely as 
dialogue, including a lecture given by the D.H.C. This novel ends by describing the protagonist's feet 
rotating counterclockwise. Characters in this book are programmed to say \"Mending is better than ending\" 
and \"Everyone belongs to everybody else.\" Linda and her Shakespeare-obsessed son encounter Bernard 
Marx in this novel. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel about John the Savage, written by Aldous 
Huxley. 
ANSWER:  
Brave New World 
190-13-96-01102 
3. These events can be quantified on the INES (I N E S) scale, and the Liquidators were a group of people 
who responded to one of these events. President Carter created the Kemeny Commission to investigate one 
of these events that occurred near the Susquehanna River. These events release the isotopes iodine-131 and 
cesium-137. For 10 points, identify these disasters in which a fission plant overheats and releases radiation 
into the environment, exemplified by the Chernobyl incident. 
ANSWER:  
nuclear 
 power plant  
meltdown 
 [or  
nuclear 
 power plant  
disaster 
, etc.] 
234-13-96-01103 
4. A method of root-finding named for this word is identical to Newton's method, but is used when no 
analytical derivative exists for the function. When two of these lines are drawn from a single point to a 
circle, then the length of the segment times the length of the external segment is constant. The derivative of 
this function of x equals this function of x times the tangent of x. This word refers to any line that passes 
through a curve twice, and in a right triangle, this function of an angle equals the hypotenuse divided by the 
side adjacent to the angle. For 10 points, name this reciprocal of the cosine. 
ANSWER:  
secant 
190-13-96-01104 
5. A character in this story mistakenly believes he hears a mouse or cricket on his floor. That character is an 
old man who has an eye resembling that of a vulture's. In this story's climax, the narrator hears a sound like 
the noise \"a watch makes when enveloped in cotton.\" At the end of this story, the narrator screams \"I admit 
the deed--tear up the planks!\" after repeating the word \"louder\" several times. For 10 points, name this 
Edgar Allan Poe story in which a murderer is driven insane by what he believes is the sound of the title 
object beating under floorboards. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Tell-Tale Heart 
\" 
052-13-96-01105 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  1 of 10 
6. This god's son Vali was turned into a wolf that kills Narfi, another son of this god. A goat was used by 
this god in order to make Skadi laugh. Heimdall and this god are fated to kill one another during Ragnarok. 
Frigg told this god that only mistletoe could harm her son Balder. This god's wife Sigyn (SIG-in) stays by 
his side to catch venom that drips towards his face, which was his punishment from the Aesir (EY-seer). 
For 10 points, name this shape-shifting Norse god known for being an untrustworthy trickster. 
ANSWER:  
Loki 
023-13-96-01106 
7. The Sahtu people in this country speak the endangered \"Slavey\" language, and the book  
Languages in 
Conflict 
 describes its \"bilingual belt.\" The \"children of Bill 101\" here are educated in a specific language. 
In a territory of this country, Inuktitut (in-UHK-teh-TUT) and Inuinnaqtun (IN-oo-uh-NOK-tin) are official 
languages. Leonard Jones sued to challenge the 1969 Official Languages Act here. This country features a 
large French-speaking Acadian minority in a bilingual province. For 10 points, name this country where 
both English and French are spoken in places such as New Brunswick. 
ANSWER:  
Canada 
052-13-96-01107 
8. The first and last coefficients of an integer polynomial can be used to guess solutions to the polynomial 
with this property. Dividing one polynomial by another gives a function described by this adjective. The 
Greeks proved that the square root of two did not have this property. It is possessed by any number with a 
terminating decimal expansion, and any integer, but not any real number. For 10 points, identify this type 
of number which can be expressed as a fraction of two integers. 
ANSWER:  
rational 
 [or  
rational 
 number; or  
rational 
 function] 
132-13-96-01108 
9. In thermodynamics, this letter symbolizes the reciprocal of Boltzmann's constant times temperature. The 
probability of not rejecting the null hypothesis when it is false is symbolized by this letter. Plaques of an 
amyloid named for this letter are common in Alzheimer's disease patients. Cells that produce insulin are 
named for this Greek letter. This letter names a radioactive decay that occurs when either a positron or an 
electron is emitted from a nucleus. For 10 points, name this letter that symbolizes type II error, as it is the 
second letter of the Greek alphabet. 
ANSWER:  
beta 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"B\"] 
190-13-96-01109 
10. This author wrote a short story in which a character unsuccessfully tries to reach \"the boys\" at a claim 
on Henderson Creek. A novel by this author includes a man in a red sweater training a pet stolen from 
Judge Miller. In that novel by this author, John Thornton saves the main character from Hal. This author's 
stories include one in which a man dies after failing to warm himself and another in which Buck joins a 
wolf pack. For 10 points, name this American author of \"To Build a Fire\" and  
The Call of the Wild. 
ANSWER: Jack  
London 
 [or John Griffith  
Chaney 
] 
023-13-96-01110 
11. At a battle in this state, Charles Mawhood fought with Hugh Mercer, and John Sullivan accepted the 
surrender of troops in Nassau Hall. The legend of Molly Pitcher was born at this state's Battle of 
Monmouth. A plan named for it favored small states and rivaled the Virginia Plan at the Constitutional 
Convention. George Washington crossed the Delaware to surprise some Hessians in this state. For 10 
points, name this site of the Battle of Princeton and the Battle of Trenton. 
ANSWER:  
New Jersey 
015-13-96-01111 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  2 of 10 
12. Though he sided with the Greeks during the Trojan War, this god escorts Priam to Achilles's camp in 
the  
Iliad. 
 Odysseus was descended from this god, as his grandfather was Autolycus (AH-tow-LYE-kuss). 
Two snakes intertwined around a staff, or a caduceus, is a symbol of this deity. His mother was the eldest 
of the Pleiades and was named Maia (MY-uh). As a child, this god used the entrails of Apollo’s cattle to 
fashion a lyre. For 10 points, name this god depicted with winged sandals, a trickster and messenger god. 
ANSWER:  
Hermes 
190-13-96-01112 
13. This man was photographed by Gaetano Faillace (fye-LAH-chay) standing next to an enemy general. 
He was unsuccessfully targeted in the Kyujo Incident, and his surrender message referenced a \"new and 
most cruel\" weapon with \"incalculable\" damage. This man gave the \"Jewel Voice Broadcast\" to signify his 
country's unconditional surrender, and was then forced to renounce his divinity by Douglas MacArthur. 
This ruler was never tried for war crimes, unlike his military leaders such as Hideki Tojo. For 10 points, 
name this Emperor of Japan during World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Hirohito 
 [or the  
Showa 
 Emperor] 
052-13-96-01113 
14. Glenn Frank was instrumental in saving lives during this event by persuading people to leave the scene. 
A Pulitzer-winning photograph taken during this event by John Filo depicts Mary Vecchio kneeling over 
the body of Jeffrey Miller. This event was the subject of Neil Young's anti-war song \"Ohio.\" Three years 
after this event, the eight National Guardsmen who opened fire were acquitted on the grounds of 
self-defense. For 10 points, name this 1970 shooting on a college campus in Ohio, which prompted a 
student strike against the Vietnam War across the country. 
ANSWER:  
Kent State 
 shootings [or  
May 4 massacre 
] 
239-13-96-01114 
15. The square of this quantity is equal to the derivative of pressure with respect to volume. This quantity 
equals the square root of the bulk modulus over density. In air, it increases roughly 0.6 units for each 
degree Celsius increase in temperature. If a fluid is irreversibly flowing at a velocity less than this number, 
then the fluid will speed up. Exceeding it produces a shock wave. The ratio of velocity to this quantity is 
the Mach number. For 10 points, name this quantity equal to about 343 meters per second in air, the speed 
at which acoustic waves can travel. 
ANSWER:  
speed of sound 
 [or  
velocity of sound 
 waves; prompt on  ] 
c 
190-13-96-01115 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 1 
Directed Round 
1A.  What classic 1973 film follows the scams perpetrated by Robert Redford and Paul Newman and is set 
to the music of Scott Joplin? 
ANSWER:  
The  Sting 
1B.  What law states that the pressure of a gas is inversely proportional to the gas's volume? 
ANSWER:  
Boyle's 
 law 
2A.  What college basketball coach won a national championship with Kentucky in 2012? 
ANSWER: John  
Calipari 
2B.  What Latin poet coined the phrase \"Carpe diem\" in his  
Odes 
? 
ANSWER:  
Horace 
 [or Quintus  
Horatius 
 Flaccus] 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Two angles in a triangle measure x + 20 and 3x - 5 degrees. 
What is the measure of the third angle? 
ANSWER:  
165-4x 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the period of the sinusoid “y = 3 sine x”? 
ANSWER:  
2 pi 
 radians [or  
360 
 degrees] 
4A.  What leader of the Christian Democratic Union won her third general election to remain Chancellor of 
Germany in 2013? 
ANSWER: Angela  
Merkel 
4B.  What action was divided into anomic, egoistic, altruistic, and fatalistic varieties in a book by Emile 
Durkheim? 
ANSWER:  
suicide 
5A.  What text fundamental to Daoism was written by Lao Tzu? 
ANSWER: the  
Dao De Jing 
 [or the  
Tao Te Ching 
; or the  
Book of the Way  and its Power 
] 
5B.  What simple animal phylum contains sponges? 
ANSWER:  
Porifera 
6A.  What Canadian province borders Washington, Idaho, and Montana? 
ANSWER:  
British Columbia 
6B.  What American filmmaker directed such landmarks as  
2001: A Space Odyssey 
 and  
The Shining 
? 
ANSWER: Stanley  
Kubrick 
7A.  RSA is an example of a public-key system used to accomplish what process? 
ANSWER:  
encryption 
7B.  What industrial process, named for a German chemist and important in World War I, was the first 
efficient way of producing ammonia? 
ANSWER:  
Haber 
 process [or  
Haber-Bosch 
 process] 
8A.  The Ohio city of Cleveland and the New York city of Buffalo lie on the shore of what lake? 
ANSWER: Lake  
Erie 
8B.  What woman known as \"The Maid of Orleans\" was burned at the stake in 1431? 
ANSWER:  
Joan of Arc 
 [or  
Jeanne d'Arc 
; or  
Saint Joan 
; prompt on partial answer] 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  4 of 10 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The two roots of a second degree polynomial P are i and 
negative i. If the y-intercept of the graph of P of x is 2, what is the polynomial in standard form? 
ANSWER:  
2x squared + 2 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A dartboard with radius 10 inches has an inner bullseye of 
radius 5 inches. A dart on the bullseye is worth 100 points and a dart on the outer circle is worth 20 points. 
What is the expected value of a single dart that hits the dartboard? 
ANSWER:   points 
40 
10A.  What name is given to the area around the equator characterized by weak winds, which was called 
the doldrums by sailors? 
ANSWER:  
ITCZ 
 [or  
Intertropical Convergence Zone 
] 
10B.  What Heian (HEY-yon)-era woman wrote the classic Japanese novel  
The Tale of Genji? 
ANSWER: Lady  
Murasaki 
 [or  
Murasaki 
 Shikibu] 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 1 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This man depicted himself surrounded by owls and bats in  
The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters. 
 This 
artist depicted a nude scene of a reclining woman, which can be found in the Prado next to his \"clothed\" 
version of the same woman. This man also painted the scene of a demonic creature consuming his offspring 
as a part of his  
Black Paintings 
 series. For 10 points, name this Spanish artist of  
Saturn Devouring His 
Children 
 who painted the massacre of Spanish citizens by Napoleon’s army in  
The Third of May, 1808. 
ANSWER: Francisco  
Goya 
227-13-96-01117 
2. These items included a trip through Oscar de la Renta and Bergdorf Goodman before an anniversary 
party. These items motivated a man to subtly advertise a bottle of Anatabloc to his staff during a meeting 
on health care. Jonnie Williams, one-time CEO of Star Scientific, offered $135,000 worth of these items to 
their possessor, who was partly motivated by his wife Maureen's credit card debt. Ken Cuccinelli's 
campaign was tarnished by the existence of these items, helping Terry McAuliffe become governor. For 10 
points, name these dubiously-legal donations to a Republican governor of Virginia. 
ANSWER: Bob  
McDonnell's gifts 
 [or  
gifts 
 to the  
McDonnell family 
; or  
gifts 
 from  
Jonnie Williams 
; or  
gifts 
 in the  
Star Scientific 
 scandal; or other equivalents] 
080-13-96-01118 
3. One of this author's novels ends when Dallas, the protagonist's son, goes alone to visit his father's lover 
in Paris. Another character created by this author is disgusted to learn from Simon Rosedale that Bertha 
Dorset and Lawrence Selden carried on an affair, and eventually overdoses on chloral. This author wrote a 
book about a crippled inhabitant of Starkfield, Massachusetts who suicidally sledded into a tree. For 10 
points, name this author of  
The Age of Innocence 
 and  
Ethan Frome. 
ANSWER: Edith  
Wharton 
190-13-96-01119 
4. This man referred to South African bodyguards as the \"Gestapo\" when making a trip on behalf of Prime 
Minister Jan Smuts (YUN SMOOTS). Known as the \"Industrial Prince\" for his frequent tours of coal mines 
and factories, he was the father of a woman called \"Lilibet.\" This king took the throne after his older 
brother, Edward VIII, abdicated to marry Wallis Simpson. He underwent speech therapy with Dr. Lionel 
Logue to overcome his stammer. For 10 points, name this King of Britain during World War II, the father 
of Elizabeth II. 
ANSWER:  
George VI 
 [prompt on  
George 
] 
052-13-96-01120 
5. This character asks why a dog, a horse, or a rat should have life but another character should have no 
breath. He dies immediately after telling onlookers to look at a dead woman's lips. This ruler meets a 
madman calling himself Tom O’Bedlam after he journeys out to the heath accompanied by his Fool. He 
earlier becomes infuriated when Cordelia fails to praise him as much as his other daughters Goneril and 
Regan. For 10 points, name this title character of a Shakespeare play, an elderly king. 
ANSWER: King  
Lear 
052-13-96-01121 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  6 of 10 
6. In one of this man's operas, a character steals the baby of Count di Luna, and the most famous song is 
performed by Azucena (ohd-zoo-CHAIN-uh) and the other gypsies. In another of this composer's operas, 
the title jester discovers that his daughter has been killed shortly after he hears a duke singing about fickle 
women. This man composed arias such as the \"Anvil Chorus\" and \"La donna e mobile,\" and an opera about 
an Ethiopian princess. For 10 points, name this Italian composer of  
Il trovatore 
 (TROH-vuh-TOR-ey),  
Rigoletto 
, and  
Aida 
 (eye-EE-duh). 
ANSWER: Giuseppe  
Verdi 
052-13-96-01122 
7. This five-word question titles a children's book illustrated by Svein Nyhus. According to ethologists, 
correct answers to this question include a rattling noise known as \"gekkering,\" a \"trisyllabic greeting 
warble,\" and a \"ululating siren-like shriek.\" Less scientific answers posited for this question include 
\"Ring-ding-ding-ding-dingeringeding,\" \"Wa-pa-pa-pa-pa-pa-pow,\" and \"Joff-tchoff- 
tchoff-tchoffo-tchoffo-tchoff.\" For 10 points, what is this question about animal vocalization which 
introduces the chorus of a 2013 YouTube hit from satirical electronic band Ylvis (ILL-viss)? 
ANSWER: \" 
What does the fox say? 
\" 
019-13-96-01123 
8. During embryonic development, these cells undergo axophilic migration. Camillo Golgi created a 
method for staining these cells. Saltatory conduction occurs between these cells. These cells undergo a 
depolarization, repolarization, and hyperpolarization of their membrane potential during an action potential. 
Glia support these cells, which come in \"sensory\" and \"motor\" types. For 10 points, name these cells that 
have axons and dendrites and make up the nervous system. 
ANSWER:  
neuron 
s [or motor  
neuron 
s; or sensory  
neuron 
s; or inter 
neuron 
s] 
190-13-96-01124 
9. For attempting to go on a walk, this character is sentenced to be whipped thirty-six times each by men in 
the Bulgarian army. At the end of the novel, this character decides that he must go \"cultivate his garden.\" 
This character argues with Martin about the morality of sinking a ship with an evil captain. This student of 
\"metaphysico-theologico-cosmolo-nigology\" is expelled from the Castle Thunder-ten-Tronckh (TRONK) 
for kissing Cunegonde (coo-nay-GOND). For 10 points, name this student of Pangloss, the optimistic 
namesake of a 1759 novella by Voltaire. 
ANSWER:  
Candide 
190-13-96-01125 
10. This character was disowned by his father, but was allowed to return home thanks to the intervention of 
his beloved younger sister Fan. This man sees two children called Ignorance and Want, and has his 
possessions sold to Old Joe by his charwoman and laundress. He once had a fiancée named Belle and was 
employed by the jovial Mr. Fezziwig. After being warned by Jacob Marley, this character begins to treat 
Bob Cratchit better. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Charles Dickens's novel  
A Christmas Carol. 
ANSWER: Ebenezer  
Scrooge 
 [or  
Ebenezer 
 Scrooge] 
052-13-96-01126 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  7 of 10 
11. A seventy-four-minute Wilhelm Furtwangler recording of this symphony is sometimes cited as the 
specific reason why CDs have a seventy-four-minute playing time. Leonard Bernstein conducted a version 
of it at the Brandenburg Gate to celebrate the fall of the Berlin Wall. This symphony ends with lyrics 
referencing a \"beautiful spark of divinity\" and \"daughter from Elysium,\" performed by vocalists singing 
words taken from Friedrich Schiller's poem \"Ode to Joy.\" For 10 points, name this final complete 
symphony of Ludwig van Beethoven. 
ANSWER:  
Choral 
 symphony [or  
Beethoven's Ninth 
 Symphony; Beethoven is not needed after being 
mentioned; do not accept or prompt on \"Ode to Joy\"] 
052-13-96-01127 
12. Pompey's son Sextus Pompeius led a revolt on this island. The First Punic War began when the 
Mamertines (MAH-mur-teenz) occupied its city of Messana. A city on this island was led by the tyrants 
Dionysius I and Hiero (HEER-oh) II, who commissioned Archimedes to design a claw and a heat ray for its 
defense. It was the origin and power base of the Mafia. For 10 points, name this island which includes the 
city of Syracuse and which is separated from Italy by only two miles. 
ANSWER:  
Sicily 
 [or  
Sicilia 
] 
015-13-96-01128 
13. The work function of a metal can be found by taking Planck's constant times frequency for the absorbed 
photon and subtracting this quantity for the emitted electron. The equipartition theorem sets it equal to 
three-halves times Boltzmann's constant times temperature. Its rotational component is proportional to the 
angular velocity squared. It is conserved in elastic, but not inelastic, collisions. Its change is equal to the 
work done on the system. For 10 points, name this quantity equal to half of mass times velocity squared, 
the energy of motion. 
ANSWER:  
kinetic 
 energy [or  
KE 
; or  
E sub k 
] 
190-13-96-01129 
14. Fifty-one stories of this type were written by John Gay for the future Duke of Cumberland. More than 
seven hundred stories of this type were collected into a book by Ben Edwin Perry. Twelve books filled with 
this kind of story were written by Jean de La Fontaine. These stories are generally followed by a maxim, 
and their use of anthropomorphism differentiates them from parables. For 10 points, name this type of 
story, exemplified by the mouse saving a trapped lion and the hare losing a race to a tortoise, as told by 
Aesop. 
ANSWER:  
fable 
s 
023-13-96-01130 
15. Over fifty people died on this river during the 1989  
Marchioness 
 disaster. Others were killed when the 
sea flooded this river's Canvey Island. The area of it known as the Tideway is downstream from 
Teddington Lock. The artificial Jubilee River contains this river's overflow and was named for the 
Diamond Jubilee. Pollution in this river reached alarming levels in the 1858 Great Stink, and it has been 
blamed for giving Prince Albert his fatal case of typhoid. For 10 points, name this longest river entirely in 
England, which flows through London. 
ANSWER: River  
Thames 
052-13-96-01131 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 1 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Some types of these biological objects have elaiosomes (EH-lie-oh-zomes), which allow them to 
undergo myrmecochory (MYRRH-meh-cok-oar-ee) through ants. The radicle is the first part to emerge 
from this object, which contain a triploid tissue called endosperm. The outer wall of these objects is 
sometimes called a testa, while cotyledons forms within them. Birds, insects, and wind help disperse these 
items, which are an embryo surrounded by nutrients and a coat. For 10 points, name this result of 
fertilization in flowering plants, which can be sown to grow a new plant. 
ANSWER:  
seed 
s 
140-13-96-01132 
2. This book begins with the protagonist mocking rich people who make drivers carry a sticker saying \"No 
Riders.\" The third chapter of this novel is about a turtle trying to cross a highway. Near the end, a character 
declares that whenever a cop is beating up a guy, he will be there. Characters in this book include the 
former preacher Jim Casy and the pregnant Rose of Sharon. For 10 points, name this John Steinbeck novel 
about the Joad family, Oklahoma tenant farmers trapped in the Dust Bowl. 
ANSWER:  
The  Grapes of Wrath 
052-13-96-01133 
3. Unusually, singlet oxygen and both hydrogen and hydroxyl radicals form during this type of reaction. 
Enthalpies of reaction are usually calculated by using substance-specific enthalpies of formation or 
enthalpies of this process. The Otto and Diesel cycles extract work from the enthalpy of this type of 
reaction. Carbon monoxide is generated in the incomplete form of this reaction, which occurs at low 
external oxygen concentrations. For 10 points, name this exothermic reaction in which hydrocarbons 
produce water and carbon dioxide by burning. 
ANSWER:  
combustion 
 [or word forms; prompt on  
burn 
ing until it is read] 
190-13-96-01134 
4. This quantity is the negative line integral of electric field between two points. Its corresponding unit is 
Joules per Coulomb. Its sum around any closed loop in a circuit must be zero. The change in this quantity 
across a resistor equals the current times the resistance by Ohm's Law. For 10 points, name this quantity 
also known as electric potential difference, which is supplied by batteries. 
ANSWER:  
voltage 
 [or  
voltage drop 
; or electric  
potential 
 difference until it is read; do not accept or 
prompt on \"potential energy\"] 
190-13-96-01135 
5. This document mandated that all foreign relations be conducted under the \"Model Treaty,\" a template for 
bilateral agreements that focused on free trade and defined lists of contraband. This document created an 
executive body called the Committee of the States, and the government organized under it passed the 
Northwest Ordinance. The 1787 Shays Rebellion highlighted the weakness in this document. For 10 points, 
name this ineffectual early U.S. governing charter that was abolished in the Constitutional Convention. 
ANSWER:  
Articles of Confederation 
 and Perpetual Union 
064-13-96-01136 
This is a calculation question. If you choose a number between 1 and 1000 inclusive, what is the 
probability that the number is divisible by 2 and 4 but not 8? 
ANSWER:  
1/8 
 [or  
0.125 
; or  
12.5% 
] 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  9 of 10 
What twentieth-century Russian composer wrote a famous second piano concerto in in C minor as well as  
Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini 
? 
ANSWER: Sergei  
Rachmaninoff 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2014     1     Page  10 of 10 
