VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 7 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This is the largest city within the Keihin Industrial Zone. This city’s namesake bay is enclosed by the 
Miura and Boso peninsulas. The Kyo and New Bridges are the borders of this city’s Ginza shopping 
district, and this city originated on the Sumida estuary. This city’s National Museum of Western Art was 
designed by Le Corbusier and is located in Ueno Park, which is noted for its cherry blossom festival. The 
city of Kawasaki is located between this city and another city in this city’s metro area, Yokohama. For 10 
points, name this capital city of Japan. 
ANSWER:  
Tokyo 
030-12-71-07101 
2. In June 1976, this nation faced a series of demonstrations in response to rising food prices. Tens of 
thousands of nationals from this country were massacred in 1940 at Katyn Forest. The Round Table Talks 
in this country allowed for the communist regime to be replaced by a new coalition , which was led by a 
trade union that began in a shipyard in Gdansk. For 10 points, name this country home to Lech Walesa's 
Solidarity movement that was the first to be invaded by Nazis during World War II. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Poland 
 [or Rzeczpospolita  
Polska 
] 
020-12-71-07102 
3. This composer used two sopranos in an operatic love duet depicting Christ as the bridegroom of the 
church in the \"Christe Eleison\" movement of a work dedicated to Augustus III of Poland. He wrote a 
collection of preludes and fugues for the solo keyboard in all 24 major and minor keys. This father of the 
composer Carl Philip Emanuel wrote the aforementioned  
Mass in B Minor 
 and  
Well-Tempered Clavier 
. For 
10 points, name this composer of the ominous-sounding organ piece  
Toccata and Fugue in D minor 
. 
ANSWER:  
J. S. Bach 
 [or  
Johann Sebastian Bach 
; prompt on  
Bach 
 and  
J. Bach 
] 
020-12-71-07103 
4. This poet concluded, “Ah, what sagacity perished here!” in the first version of a poem about “the meek 
members of the resurrection,” who are “safe in their alabaster chambers.” In another poem by this writer, 
the speaker recalls “the day I first surmised the horses’ heads were toward eternity,” after stating how the 
title figure “kindly stopped for me.” For 10 points, a poem beginning, “Because I could not stop for Death” 
was written by what reclusive American poet? 
ANSWER: Emily  
Dickinson 
014-12-71-07104 
5. The proteins noggin and chordin inhibit a \"morphogenic protein\" named after this substance. When this 
substance is formed, younger cells gather along its epiphysis while older cells occupy the diaphysis in the 
middle. The two types of tissue found in these substances include the \"cancellous\" type, which is spongy, 
and the more rigid \"compact\" type. The interior of these substances contain Haversian canals. Certain 
\"clasts\" break down this substance and certain \"blasts\" promote their formation. These substances serve as 
reserves for calcium in the body and gradually replace cartilage. For 10 points, name these component parts 
of mammalian endoskeletons. 
ANSWER:  
bone 
s 
020-12-71-07105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  1 of 9 
6. Adolphus Slade led one side in this conflict's Battle of Sinope. During this conflict, a woman known as 
the \"lady of the lamp\" rose to prominence; that woman was Florence Nightingale. This war included the 
Siege of Sevastopol and the Battle of Balaclava, which included the Charge of the Light Brigade. For 10 
points, name this war lasting from 1853 to 1856, in which Britain, France, and the Ottoman Empire 
defeated Russia in fighting that took place primarily on the namesake peninsula. 
ANSWER:  
Crimean 
 War 
189-12-71-07106 
7. Some organisms within this phylum produce an antibacterial compound called ageliferin, and members 
of this phylum can be classified as asconoids, leuconoids, or syconoids. Some organisms within this 
phylum produce spicules, and choanocytes within these organisms use flagella to regulate water flow. 
Members of this phylum possess an internal jelly-like matrix called mesohyl, and they lack a nervous or 
circulatory system. For 10 points, identify this phylum made up of porous organisms sometimes known as 
sponges. 
ANSWER:  
porifera 
 [accept  
sponge 
s before it's read] 
189-12-71-07107 
8. This poem compares its subject to “a poet hidden in the light of thought” and “a high-born maiden in a 
palace tower, soothing her love-laden soul in secret hour.” The speaker of this poem notes, “I have never 
heard praise of love or wine that panted forth a flood of rapture so divine.” The speaker of this poem asks 
the addressee to “teach me half the gladness that thy brain must know,” and begins by crying, “Hail to 
thee, blithe spirit!” For 10 points, name this Percy Bysshe Shelley poem addressing a certain bird. 
ANSWER: “ 
To a Skylark 
” 
014-12-71-07108 
9. This field's contributions to evolutionary biology include formalizing a situation in which no mutant can 
invade a population, \"evolutionary stability.\" A thought experiment in this field hinges on two suspects 
who can either \"defect\" to police or \"cooperate;\" that is the \"prisoner's dilemma.\" Developed by von 
Neumann and Morgenstern, it has found applications in economics, like the Nash Equilibrium. For 10 
points, name this field of mathematics used to optimize strategies for situations like poker and chess. 
ANSWER:  
game 
 theory 
080-12-71-07109 
10. The founder of this empire died from fasting after converting to Jainism, and was advised early in his 
reign by the author of the  
Arthashastra 
, Kautilya. Megasthenes was a Greek visitor to the court of this 
empire's ruler Bindasura. Another emperor from this dynasty, whose capital was at Pataliputra, espoused 
Buddhist principles after conquering Kalinga; that ruler of this empire also released thirty-three Rock 
Edicts. For 10 points, name this Indian empire ruled by Ashoka and founded by Chandragupta. 
ANSWER:  
Maurya 
n Empire 
192-12-71-07110 
11. In 1951, this politician founded a company with John Overbey. When asked about the Iran-Contra 
affair, this man said he was \"out of the loop.\" In 1976, Gerald Ford appointed this politician head of the 
CIA. In a presidential election, this man defeated Michael Dukakis on a ticket with Dan Quayle. As 
President, he launched Operation Desert Storm in response to Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait in the 
Persian Gulf War. For 10 points, name this one-term President after Ronald Reagan. 
ANSWER: George  erbert Walker  
H Bush 
 [or  
Bush 41 
; or  
Bush the Elder 
; prompt on George  
Bush 
; do not 
accept \"George Walker Bush\"] 
014-12-71-07111 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  2 of 9 
12. One portion of these structures includes proteins such as ameloblastins and tuftelins. The gingiva are 
located around these structures, which are partially formed by dentin and pulp. Examples of these structures 
include incisors, and sharks grow a new set of these structures every two weeks. For 10 points, identify 
these structures whose decay is prevented by proper fluoride usage, whose \"wisdom\" variety is removed 
from the mouths of adults. 
ANSWER:  
teeth 
 [accept clear equivalents; accept specific types of teeth such as  
molars 
 before \"incisors\"] 
189-12-71-07112 
13. In one work set in this state, Dexter Green ultimately does not end up with Judy Jones, a woman he met 
at the Sherry Island Golf Club. That story set in this state is “Winter Dreams,” which was written by a 
native of this state. This state is also the setting for a work in which Carol Kennicott unsuccessfully 
attempts to put on a production of  
Androcles and the Lion. 
 For 10 points, name this Great Lakes state in 
which Sinclair Lewis’s novel  
Main Street 
 is set in the fictional town of Gopher Prairie, which is also the 
homestate of Jay Gatsby and his creator, F. Scott Fitzgerald. 
ANSWER:  
Minnesota 
030-12-71-07113 
14. This organization took its name from a speech by Isaac Barre. A Copperhead organization known as the 
Knights of the Golden Circle changed its name to the \"Order of\" of this group and was led by Clement 
Vallandigham during the Civil War. Isaac Sears led members of this group in a skirmish in Golden Hill in 
New York City, and members of his group burned the HMS  
Gaspee 
. This organization was started by 
Samuel Adams. For 10 points, name this organization whose members participated in the Boston Tea Party. 
ANSWER:  
Sons of Liberty 
030-12-71-07114 
15. This force can be derived mathematically with the Einstein Field Equations, which describe how an 
object causes a curvature in spacetime. A constant associated with this force was first accurately derived 
from an experiment that used a torsion balance and was conducted by Henry Cavendish. This force is 
always attractive. An inverse-square law for it was presented in the  
Principia 
. For 10 points, identify this 
force whose universal law was originally formulated by Sir Isaac Newton. 
ANSWER:  
gravity 
066-12-71-07115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 7 
Directed Round 
1A.  What weaver from Greek mythology was turned into a spider by Athena after creating a tapestry 
depicting the frailties of the gods? 
ANSWER:  
Arachne 
1B.  Name this portion of a microscope usually directly above microscope slide which magnifies the 
sample by up to 100 times. 
ANSWER:  
objective 
 lens 
2A.  Name the logical fallacy in which a proposition relies on an implicit, unsupported premise as proof of 
its own truth. 
ANSWER:  
begging the question 
 [or word forms; or  
petitio principii 
; or  
hysteron proteron 
] 
2B.  With a capital S, Sie (SEE) can be a formal way of saying this word in German, which informally is du 
(DEW). 
ANSWER:  
you 
3A.  The Scottish archer-princess Merida was the protagonist of what production studio's most recent film,  
Brave 
? 
ANSWER:  
Pixar 
 Animation Studios 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. A rectangle has one side of length 12 and a diagonal of 
length 13. Find the perimeter of the rectangle. 
ANSWER:  
34 
4A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Calculate the value of sine squared of 60 degrees plus cosine 
squared of 60 degrees plus tangent squared of 60 degrees. 
ANSWER:  
4 
4B.  What painting was defaced by Marcel Duchamp in L.H.O.O.Q. and is famous for its central subject's 
mysterious smile, depicted by Leonardo da Vinci? 
ANSWER:  
Mona Lisa 
 [or  
La  Gioconda 
] 
5A.  What Shakespeare play ends with the title character killing Laertes and Claudius? 
ANSWER:  
Hamlet 
5B.  What element did Joseph Priestley call “dephlogisticated air” that he found allowed candles to burn 
brighter and mice to live longer when put in containers of it? 
ANSWER:  
oxygen 
6A.  Shoemaker-Levy 9, which collided with Jupiter in 1994, was what kind of dusty, icy celestial body? 
ANSWER:  
comet 
6B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The sum of two numbers is 8 and the sum of their squares is 
40. Find the product of the numbers. 
ANSWER:  
12 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. An archery target consists of three concentric circles with 
radii 1, 3, and 5 respectively. An arrow hits a random point within the target. What is the probability it hits 
in the region between the middle and inner circles? 
ANSWER:  
8/25 
 [or 0 
.32 
; or  
32 percent 
] 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  Name the adjective placed before magnitude to describe a star's brightness, and before value to 
describe a number's distance from zero. 
ANSWER:  
absolute 
8A.  General Sherman is a tree in what National Forest in California named for the giant trees it harbors? 
ANSWER:  
Sequoia 
 National Forest 
8B. What NBA team went 30 years between playoff series wins and currently features Chris Paul and 
Blake Griffin? 
ANSWER: Los Angeles  
Clippers 
 [prompt on  
Los Angeles 
; prompt on  
LA 
] 
9A.  Which charges, levied by a government upon its people, come in \"income\" and \"sales\" varieties, and 
can result in deadweight loss? 
ANSWER:  
tax 
es 
9B. What literary term describes a pair of rhyming lines? Shakespearean sonnets end with this structure. 
ANSWER:  
couplet 
10A. Rick Scott declared a state of emergency in response to what hurricane that disrupted the 2012 
Republican National Convention? 
ANSWER: Hurricane  
Isaac 
10B.  Strange, charm, up, down, top, and bottom are the six flavors of what subatomic particles? 
ANSWER:  
quark 
s 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 7 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In this film, Mr. Bernstein has monthly thoughts of seeing a girl with a white parasol. The main 
character’s relationship with Susan Alexander is exposed by the main character’s political opponent Jim 
W. Gettys in this movie. Known for its extended use of deep focus, this film depicts an heir to a goldmine 
fortune who bought the New York Inquirer. For 10 points, name this movie directed by and starring Orson 
Welles as the title newspaper magnate who lives in his state of Xanadu and utters “Rosebud” before dying. 
ANSWER:  
Citizen Kane 
030-12-71-07117 
2. This man never finished his novel about the conman Felix Krull, and he depicted the syphilis-ridden 
composer Adrian Leverkuhn in his novel  
Doctor Faustus. 
 Another work by this man describes visions of 
Greek gods experienced by the protagonist before he dies of cholera on a beach. One of this man’s novels 
focuses on the title merchant family,  
Buddenbrooks, 
 while another sees Hans Castorp journey to a Swiss 
sanatorium. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Magic Mountain 
 who portrayed Gustav von 
Aschenbach’s obsession with Tadzio in  
Death in Venice. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Mann 
191-12-71-07118 
3. The anointing of Jesus by the woman with the alabaster jar took place at the house of a man with this 
name known as \"the Leper.\" In Acts, a figure of this name is a magician who attempts to give Peter and 
John money in exchange for the power of laying on of hands, and the crime of buying or selling spiritual 
things is named for that man. This is the birth name of the brother of Andrew who fished alongside James 
and John. This is the original name of the man who is told that he is the rock upon which Jesus will build 
his Church. For 10 points, give this original name of the first Pope, Peter. 
ANSWER:  
Simon 
195-12-71-07119 
4. This king's coronation was marred by a massacre of Jews, but he punished those responsible before 
leaving on a campaign during which he helped Phillip Augustus besiege Tyre. This king was killed by a 
crossbow bolt fired from the castle of Chalus. After the death of his father, Henry II, this prisoner of 
Leopold V of Austria led the English forces in the Third Crusade. For 10 points, identify this brother of 
King John who was renowned for his bravery. 
ANSWER:  
Richard I 
 of England [or  
Richard the Lionheart 
ed; or  
Richard Coeur de Lion 
; prompt on 
Richard_] 
195-12-71-07120 
5. In one novel by this author, the murder of Joanna Burden leads Doc Hines to call for the death of Joe 
Christmas. Cash reinjures his leg in a wagon accident in another novel by this author. In that novel, 
Vardaman bores air holes into a coffin carrying the deceased Addie Bundren. This author also created 
Jason and Quentin Compson. For 10 points, name this author who created the fictional Yoknapatawpha 
(YOK-nuh-puh-TAH-pha) county and wrote the novels  
Light in August, As I Lay Dying, 
   and  
The Sound 
and the Fury. 
ANSWER: William Cuthbert  
Faulkner 
194-12-71-07121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  6 of 9 
6. This author wrote of a deaf mute who recognizes a blazing building as his own home in “Chickamauga.” 
One of his works describes a Christian as a person who follows Christ’s teachings so long as they allow 
sinning. That satirical book of definitions is his  
The Devil's Dictionary. 
 Another of his works is about a 
man who experiences an elaborate fantasy of his escape from imminent death by hanging. For 10 points, 
identify this American author who wrote of Peyton Farquhar in \"An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.\" 
ANSWER: Ambrose  
Bierce 
189-12-71-07122 
7. This character is presumed dead after falling into the sea while saving a worker on the ship  
Orion. 
 He is 
given the nickname Leblanc by another character due to his white hair, and he also uses the name Ultimus 
Fauchelevent (foe-SHEL-uh-vont) while staying in a convent. He receives silver candlesticks from Bishop 
Myriel and is continually pursued by Inspector Javert (zhuh-VAIR). For 10 points, name this adoptive 
father of Cosette and protagonist of Victor Hugo's novel  
Les Miserables 
 (LAY mee-zair-AHB). 
ANSWER: Jean  
Valjean 
 [or  
Jean 
 Valjean] 
194-12-71-07123 
8. This man's son of the same name won a special election to fill in the unexpired term of Senator Everett 
Dirksen. This man presented evidence that the Soviet Union was stockpiling weapons while serving as 
ambassador to the United Nations during the Cuban Missile Crisis. This man was the grandson of Grover 
Cleveland's Vice President. He gave \"Never run against a war hero\" as advice to a young politician. For 10 
points, name this Illinois governor who twice ran against and lost to Dwight Eisenhower as the Democratic 
presidential nominee. 
ANSWER: Adlai Ewing  
Stevenson 
030-12-71-07124 
9. In one game of this series, the player can shoot eight switches near a supply train to divert it on the world 
of Macbeth. The Aparoid Queen is a villain in this series, which was set on Dinosaur Planet. Characters in 
these games include the bunny-eared Peppy and Slippy Toad, who travel to Venom to defeat Andross, and 
a player character for whom one can press R or Z twice to do a barrel roll. For 10 points, name this series of 
Nintendo games in which Falco is on the title team of anthropomorphic animals in spacecraft. 
ANSWER:  
Star Fox 
 series 
104-12-71-07125 
10. The change in entropy for substances undergoing this process is often around 10.5 times the gas 
constant according to Trouton's Rule. When a solution lacks nucleation sites, this process may not occur in 
it, resulting in superheating. This process occurs when vapor pressure equals atmospheric pressure. The 
temperature at which it occurs may increase due to solute particles in a colligative property describing its 
\"elevation.\" For 10 points, name this phase change during which a liquid turns into a gas. 
ANSWER:  
boil 
ing [or  
vaporization 
] 
190-12-71-07126 
11. The z transform of the impulse response yields a representation of linear, time-invariant systems as a 
transfer one of these things. Maps and operators are other terms used to refer to these things. The set of 
values for which these things are defined is there domain; those that have only one element in their range 
for every element in their domain are known as one-to-one. The negative of the input is equal to the 
negative of the output for odd examples of these things. For 10 points, identify these things that relate 
inputs and outputs. 
ANSWER:  
function 
066-12-71-07127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  7 of 9 
12. A planar substance composed entirely of this element was the subject of Andre Geim and Konstantin 
Novoselov's 2010 Nobel Prize in Physics. Another compound consisting of sixty atoms of this element 
forms a soccer-ball like truncated icosahedrons and was named for American architect R. Buckminster 
Fuller. In addition to those allotropes of this element, it is found in a covalent network in the hardest natural 
compound. For 10 points, name this element which occurs naturally in graphite and diamond, as well as all 
organic compounds. 
ANSWER:  
carbon 
 [or  ] 
C 
190-12-71-07128 
13. This structure runs parallel to the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway. This structure required the creation of the 
Gaillard Cut in Gamboa. This structure includes Gatun Lake, Miraflores Lake, and the Chagres River on its 
path. This structure is crossed over by the Centennial Bridge and the Bridge of the Americas. For 10 points, 
name this man-made structure that opened to traffic in 1914 and connected the Atlantic to the Pacific 
through a Central American isthmus. 
ANSWER:  
Panama Canal 
 [or  
Canal de Panama 
] 
023-12-71-07129 
14. This scientist developed the shunting-yard algorithm to transform infix notation to reverse Polish 
notation. This scientist introduced the dining philosopher's problem, which can be solved using another 
concept he invented, semaphores. One algorithm named for this man fails when a graph has negative edge 
weights. For 10 points, identify this author of \"Go To Statement Considered Harmful\" and namesake of a 
greedy shortest path algorithm. 
ANSWER: Edsger W.  
Dijkstra 
066-12-71-07130 
15. The protagonist of this novel indicates a change in her nature as she \"resisted all the way\" when being 
taken to be locked up in the \"red room.\" In this novel, Helen Burns is a friend of the protagonist, who 
attends Lowood. Another character in this novel, a madwoman locked in an attic named Bertha Mason, 
burns down an estate called Thornfield Hall. For 10 points, identify this novel in which the title female falls 
in love with Mr. Rochester, a work by Charlotte Bronte. 
ANSWER:  
Jane Eyre 
189-12-71-07131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 7 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. One character in this play receives a large income from Ezra Wannafeller to deliver lectures on morality. 
This play opens during a rainstorm in Covent Garden, where the \"Note Taker\" is suspected of being a 
policeman. One character in this play bets his colleague, Colonel Pickering, that he can make a Cockney 
girl pass as a duchess. For 10 points, name this mythologically-titled George Bernard Shaw play in which 
Henry Higgins tutors Eliza Doolittle. 
ANSWER:  
Pygmalion 
186-12-71-07132 
2. A jazz album based on this ballet was arranged by Billy Strayhorn and is one of Duke Ellington's  
Three 
Suites 
. This ballet's choreographer Marius Petipa used as its text Alexander Dumas pere's adaptation of an 
ETA Hoffman story. The \"Trepak,\" the \"Arabian Dance,\" and the \"Chinese Dance\" are songs from this 
ballet, in which Herr Drosselmeyer's arrival on Christmas Eve initiates the action. The villainous 
mouse-king is killed in this ballet after Clara's doll comes to life. For 10 points, name this ballet about a toy 
soldier, with music by Tchaikovsky. 
ANSWER:  
The  Nutcracker 
 [or  
Shchelkunchik 
; or  
Casse-Noisette 
; or  
Ballet-Feerie 
] 
020-12-71-07133 
3. Arthur Holmes did work on this man's hypothesis that the mantle undergoes thermal convection. This 
man's most famous theory was supported by the discovery of seafloor spreading. After reading a scientific 
paper linking fossil records on opposite sides of the Atlantic and noticing the complementariness of South 
America's and Africa's coastline, he proposed the existence of a supercontinent later named Pangaea. For 
10 points, name this person who proposed the theory of continental drift. 
ANSWER: Alfred  
Wegener 
066-12-71-07134 
4. A Republican architect of bipartisan foreign policy following World War II was a Senator from this state 
named Arthur Vandenburg. A man known as the \"Father of Popular Sovereignty\" who lost the 1848 
presidential election, Lewis Cass, was from this state. A former Representative of this state was responsible 
for the \"Whip Inflation Now\" program and granted an unconditional pardon to Richard Nixon. For 10 
points, name this state home to Gerald Ford and once governed by George Romney from Lansing. 
ANSWER:  
Michigan 
030-12-71-07135 
5. In 2012, this country's Supreme Court threw out all 122 licenses to cell phone companies that were 
improperly granted in its \"2G spectrum scam\" scandal. In 2011, this country's government agreed to 
implement anti-corruption policies to end Anna Hazare's hunger strike. This country also arrested Abu 
Jundal, believed to be a high-ranking planner of the 2008 terrorist attacks which hit this country's largest 
city. For 10 points, name this country which also resumed bilateral dialogue with its neighbor, Pakistan. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
India 
 [or  
Bharat 
] 
019-12-71-07136 
What Elizabethan satirist wrote such plays as  
Volpone 
 and  
The Alchemist 
? 
ANSWER: Ben  
Jonson 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     7     Page  9 of 9 
