NASAT 2011 
Round 16 
Tossups 
1. One captured combatant in this battle attempted to burn himself with cigarettes to commit suicide. 
Kermit Tyler was responsible for warning one side of the approach of the other. This battle, which was 
known as Operation Z by one side, was prompted by the passage of the Vinson-Walsh act and the sending 
of the Hull Note by one country. The attacking side made heavy use of the recently-developed Type 91 
torpedo. The aggressor was partly motivated by dwindling oil supplies. This battle saw the destruction of 
the USS  
Arizona 
. Occurring on \"a date which will live in infamy,\" for 10 points, name this attack that 
brought the United States into World War II. 
ANSWER: attack on  
Pearl Harbor 
048-11-30-16102 
2. In this work, the main speaker refers to education as a doctrine of the multitude which has little regard 
for the life or death of a single individual. Earlier, when one character is told of a ship arriving from Delos, 
he responds by describing a dream in which a woman in white tells him he will go to Phthia in three days. 
That man is later reminded of the wealthy friends Simmias and Cebes, along with allies he has in Thessaly. 
The main subject notes that responding to one injustice with another injustice is just as wrong. Towards the 
end of this work, the protagonist notes that he has been educated and nurtured by his city and thus escaping 
after breaking the rules would violate the contract he has entered with his government. For 10 points, name 
this Platonic dialogue in which Socrates turns down a friend’s offer to escape from prison. 
ANSWER:  
Crito 
064-11-30-16103 
3. To become emperor, he won the Battle of Margus after his predecessor, Carus, was struck by lightning. 
In one story, this emperor was asked to return to the throne but decided he was happier living as a cabbage 
farmer at his palace in Split. Rapid inflation prompted him to introduce a coin called the argenteus and 
establish price controls with his  
Edict on Maximum Prices 
. He is remembered for allegedly martyring 
20,000 people at Nicomedia, an action later outlawed by Constantine’s Edict of Milan. He and his 
co-emperors Maximian, Galerius, and Constantius each ruled one quarter of the empire in a system called 
the Tetrarchy. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor noted for persecuting Christians. 
ANSWER:  
Diocletian 
079-11-30-16104 
4. In Henoch-Schonlein pupura, these structures in the skin are attacked by antibodies, and these structures 
become excessively permeable in Clarkson’s disease. Pericytes are responsible for regulating these 
structures within the brain. One type of these lack pinocytotic vesicles and are only found in the liver, 
known as the sinusoidal type, which is a specific version of the fenestrated type. An equation describing 
these entities contains the reflection and filtration coefficients and shows the balance between hydrostatic 
and oncotic pressure; that equation is named for Starling. They contain a single layer of endothelial cells, 
and glomeruli of the kidney are balls of them. In the lungs, O2 from the alveoli move into these structures, 
beds of which exchange nutrients and waste with body tissues. For 10 points, name this class of blood 
vessels, the body's smallest. 
ANSWER:  
capillaries 
 [or  
blood vessels 
 before \"Clarkson’s disease\" is read; prompt after] 
081-11-30-16105 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  1 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. One source says that the total number of these is odd because odd numbers are more lovely and that 
anyone who memorizes all of them will be rewarded. One of these terms translates to \"the governor,\" while 
another means \"the delayer\" and another \"the manifest.\" The 59th verse of \"al-Hashr\" says that this group 
of terms is \"the most beautiful,\" and the 17th verse of \"al-Isra\" says that this group of terms is \"all the 
attributes of perfection.\" They also include \"ar-raheem,\" or \"the merciful,\" and \"al-malikm\" or \"the lord.\" 
For 10 points, identify this group of 99 epithets for an important figure in Islam. 
ANSWER: the 99  
names of Allah 
 [or 99  
names of God 
 in Islam, etc] 
019-11-30-16106 
6. One of these pieces, its composer's opus 90, begins with a movement its composer described as a 
\"contest of the head and the heart.\" The two of these pieces that make up their composer's opus 49 consist 
of only two movements and are known as their composer's \"two easy\" ones. The three major ones of their 
composer's middle period include one dedicated to Franz von Brunswick and one whose movements are 
entitled “The Farewell,” “The Absence,” and “The Return.” These thirty-two pieces include works 
nicknamed “Les Adieux” and \"The Tempest,\" as well as a piece beginning with driving C major chords 
which is nicknamed \"Waldstein.\" Also including works nicknamed “Appassionata” and “Pathétique,” for 
10 points, name this group of Romantic piano pieces, whose 14th is nicknamed “Moonlight.” 
ANSWER:  
piano sonata 
s of Ludwig van  
Beethoven 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
024-11-30-16107 
7. This body of water was the site of the 1944 Bagley train wreck, which occurred on a bridge that is part of 
the Lucin Cutoff. This lake’s Gunnison Island is a breeding ground for the American White Pelican. 
“Castle Rock” overlooks its second largest island, Stansbury, which is connected to the mainland by a path. 
The largest island in this lake is home to a bison herd but is named for its population of pronghorns. This 
site of Antelope Island is fed by the Bear and Jordan Rivers and is the remnant of the prehistoric Lake 
Bonneville. For 10 points, name this lake which supports nothing larger than a brine shrimp, the largest 
lake in Utah. 
ANSWER:  
Great Salt Lake 
015-11-30-16108 
8. This author wrote a poem whose speaker ponders what “a simple child” should know of death, before 
that child reveals that two of her six siblings “in the church-yard lie.” The narrator of one of his poems 
mourns \"We have given our hearts away\" after noting that \"Little we see in Nature that is ours.\" The 
speaker of another of his poems compares himself to an object \"that floats on high o'er vales and hills.\" 
This man’s views on poetry were articulated in his posthumous work  
The Prelude 
. This author of \"We Are 
Seven\" penned individual poems like “The World Is Too Much With Us” and “I Wandered Lonely as a 
Cloud.” For 10 points, name this English poet who collaborated with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on  
Lyrical 
Ballads 
. 
ANSWER: William  
Wordsworth 
094-11-30-16109 
9. Benson and Krause developed a 3-term power series for accurately finding the coefficients in this law. 
The constants found in this law are often found using solid-phase microextraction, and the reciprocal of one 
of those constants gives the partition coefficient of the reaction in question. This law, which can be applied 
to silicate melts in geology, is only applicable in the limit of infinite dilution and only applies to ideal 
solutions. Stated as p equals k c, this law explains why soda goes flat when left out too long and why divers 
get decompression sickness. For 10 points, name this law from chemistry which states that the amount of 
gas that will dissolve in a liquid is proportional to the partial pressure of that gas. 
ANSWER:  
Henry 
’s Law 
081-11-30-16110 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  2 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. At her death, Angela Carter was in the midst of a novel about the illegitimate child of this character and 
a French opera singer. Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar titled their seminal feminist study of Victorian 
literature after his wife. He is rumored to be engaged to Blanche Ingram, and is first introduced falling from 
his horse after slipping on ice. This adopted father of Adele Varens marries Antoinette Cosway in Jean 
Rhys’s  
Wide Sargasso Sea 
. In the novel in which he originally appears, this character loses the use of his 
arm and becomes blind in a fire. This character keeps his first wife Bertha Mason in the attic of Thornfield 
Hall. For 10 points, name this love interest of Jane Eyre. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Rochester 
015-11-30-16111 
11. In a follow-up to this experiment, wives recorded the helpful behavior of their husbands. This 
experiment and later variations helped disprove the Freudian idea of the catharsis effect and showed that 
vicarious reinforcement could be as important as direct reinforcement in learning. Some confederates in 
this study were given a soft drink and told they were “strong champions” while others were warned that 
they were “a big bully” after performing the central action. Friedrich and Stein reversed this experiment to 
look at the positive effects of watching episodes of  
Mister Rogers' Neighborhood 
. Children in this 
experiment were shown a film in which adults yelled things like “sockeroo!” and “pow, right in the nose!” 
For 10 points, name this experiment conducted by Albert Bandura where children repeated aggressive 
behavior conducted against the title toy. 
ANSWER:  
Bobo Doll 
 Experiment 
094-11-30-16112 
12. One early leader of this state was the founder of the colony of Warwick, Samuel Gorton. One event in 
this state was an incursion by Captain Benjamin Church, during which the praying Indian John Alderman 
killed a notorious fugitive hiding out here. This state is home to Mount Hope and the Miery Swamp, which 
served as a base of operations and eventual place of death for King Philip. The founder of what became this 
state wrote the book  
The Bloody Tenet of Persecution 
. As a colony, this state became the home of 
dissidents such as Anne Hutchinson. For 10 points, name this state founded as a colony for religious 
freedom by Roger Williams, who gave it the name of \"Providence.\" 
ANSWER:  
Rhode Island 
 and Providence Plantations 
052-11-30-16113 
13. When a sacrifice was made to this god, it was customary for the person making the sacrifice to turn his 
face away. This god almost seduced the nymph Minthe, but was foiled when his wife turned her into a mint 
plant. The Romans called this deity \"Dis Pater\" and referred to his realm as \"Orcus.\" This god kept a 
prisoner named Pirithous, who was stuck in a chair from which he could not get up. This owner of a cap of 
invisibility kidnapped Persephone from her mother, Demeter. For 10 points, name this Greek god of the 
underworld. 
ANSWER:  
Hades 
 [or  
Pluto 
; or  
Dis Pater 
 or  
Orcus 
 before they are read] 
021-11-30-16114 
14. This artist depicted some people walking between sand dunes in the background as a woman holds a 
black lamb and a basket beneath the title sculpture of one painting. His forays into pottery include the  
Jug 
Self-portrait 
, which was a reaction to his relationship with a fellow artist. He painted a group of 
church-going women dressed in black and white who see the scene of an angel wrestling Jacob in his  
Vision After the Sermon 
. This artist of  
The Green Christ 
 painted a young man reaching upwards for fruit in 
the center of a work which also depicts a blue idol. For 10 points, name this artist whose travels in Tahiti 
inspired  
Where do we come from? What are we? Where are we going? 
ANSWER: Paul  
Gauguin 
088-11-30-16115 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  3 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. The future communist leader of this country was tried in the Leipzig Trial for setting fire to the 
Reichstag. This nation of Georgi Dimitrov rebelled against the Ottoman Empire in the April Rising, the 
suppression of which led William Gladstone to denounce a series of “horrors.” This country was defeated 
in the Second Balkan War and led by Tsar Boris III during World War II. For much of the twentieth 
century this country was led by Todor Zhivkov, who had the longest stint in power of any Soviet bloc 
leader. For 10 points, name this Balkan nation which during World War II saw allied aircraft heavily bomb 
Sofia. 
ANSWER:  
Bulgaria 
015-11-30-16116 
16. A project at the Harvard Center for Astrophysics headed by Brian Schmidt searches for high-redshift 
examples of these objects in order to use their light curves as tests of the expanding universe. Two subtypes 
of these objects are distinguished by their absence of a strong silicon line and by serving as radio sources. 
These objects are classified into two broad categories depending on whether or not they exhibit hydrogen 
spectra, and the relatively uniform brightnesses of one subtype of these objects allow them to be used to 
calculate the distance ladder. A white dwarf which exceeds the Chandrasekhar limit will become the Type 
Ia [read: “one-A”] variety of this object, and the Type II variety of these objects form from massive stars 
when a collapsing core initiates further burning of successive interior layers. For ten points, identify these 
powerful explosions that occur at the end of a star’s life cycle. 
ANSWER:  
supernova 
e 
043-11-30-16117 
17. This religion reveres a young woman who “understands the simplicity of all” and it uses the term 
\"vin-dit\" to describe a religious epiphany. Its adherents proclaim “Now I destroy the world” shortly before 
dying and its scriptures are divided into sections called calypsos. This religion's most important ritual 
involves two practitioners joining the soles of their feet. This religion, founded by Lionel Boyd Johnson, 
holds that each person unknowingly does God’s will with the help of a group called a karass, though there 
exist false karasses known as granfaloons. For 10 points, name this religion illegally practiced by every 
citizen of San Lorenzo in Kurt Vonnegut’s  
Cat’s Cradle 
. 
ANSWER:  
Bokonon 
ism 
003-11-30-16118 
18. This author used the frame narrative of the friends Ottmar, Cyprian, and Sylvester telling and analyzing 
stories in a work that collected many of his miscellaneous writings and which shares its name with a Soviet 
literary group. He wrote about a student named Anselmus who falls in love with Serpentina while working 
for the Archivist after he was cursed by an evil apple monger. This author of \"The Golden Pot\" created the 
fictional alter-ego Johannes Kreisler and wrote a story in which Nathanael goes mad after learning that 
Olympia is an automaton. He wrote another story about Clara joining the title character to defeat the Mouse 
King. For 10 points, name this German author of the fantastical stories “The Sand Man” and “The 
Nutcracker and the Mouse King.” 
ANSWER: Ernst Theodor Wilhelm  
Hoffmann 
 [or ETA  
Hoffmann 
] 
015-11-30-16119 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  4 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. When this structure was finished, Pope Martin V sent golden flowers for a giant feast to be held. 
Guillame Dufay wrote music to accompany the finishing of this work. Giuliano de Sangallo designed the 
balconies that adorn it. Its construction consists of two concentric layers held together by three enormous 
stone chains. The man responsible for building it was also working on the  
Hospital of the Innocents 
. 
Giorgio Vasari painted his frescoes of  
The Last Judgment 
 on this structure, which features eight ribbed 
arches held together by a singular lantern. For 10 points, identify this achievement by Filippo Brunelleschi, 
a modification to the Florentine Duomo. 
ANSWER: the  
Dome 
 of the  
Florence Cathedral 
 [or the  
Dome 
 of the  
Basilica di Santa Maria del Fiore 
; 
accept equivalents; prompt if the player gives a name for the church] 
033-11-30-16120 
20. For an undulator, the most prominent value for this quantity is proportional to the Lorentz gamma 
squared over the sum one plus the product of the Lorentz gamma squared and the angle squared. For 
alternating current in a conductor, the skin depth is given by the square root of the quantity two over the 
product of permeability, conductivity, and this quantity. The levels of the quantum harmonic oscillator are 
quantized in discrete units of this quantity. The energy of a photon is given by Planck’s constant times this 
quantity, and for a pendulum, this quantity is given by the square root of the gravitational acceleration over 
the length. For ten points, identify this quantity in physics which is the inverse of the period and has units 
of inverse seconds, or hertz. 
ANSWER:  
frequency 
043-11-30-16121 
21. This ruler founded a hospital meant to hold 300 called the Fifteen Score and traded territory with Spain 
in the Treaty of Corbeil. Blanche of Castille served as regent in the early reign of this ruler, marked by a 
victory over Raymond VII at the Battle of Languedoc. Later, this ruler defeated a force loyal to Henry III at 
the Battle of Taillebourg. He died of a stomach illness after allying with his brother Charles of Anjou in an 
attack on Tunis, and was earlier captured at the Battle of Fariskur by the Ayyubid dynasty of Egypt. For 10 
points, name this French king who went on the Seventh and Eighth Crusades, the only French king to be 
canonized. 
ANSWER:  
Louis IX 
 [or  
Saint Louis 
; prompt on \"Louis\"] 
064-11-30-16122 
22. One member of this class of drugs is mixed with Ezitimibe in a common formulation, and patients with 
some variations in SCLO1B1 are at increased risk of side effects when taking them. The first in this class 
of drugs was derived from fermented Aspergillus by Merck. Myopathy and muscle breakdown are 
potentially serious complications of these drugs since they reduce levels of coenzyme Q. These drugs work 
by inhibiting an enzyme responsible for synthesizing mevalonate, known as HMG-CoA reductase. These 
drugs have no effect on HDL level, but they significantly reduce LDL, thus preventing the progression of 
atherosclerosis. For 10 points, name these drugs that include Lipitor and Zocor, which lower blood levels of 
cholesterol. 
ANSWER:  
statins 
048-11-30-16123 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  5 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
23. This author wrote about a man who listens to the radio program “This I Believe” and sells his 
grandfather’s lodge “Roaring Camp” to the carpenter who built it, Mr. Sartalamaccia. The main character 
of another novel invents “The Ontological Lapsometer” to diagnose existential ailments. The title character 
of his first novel finds his “malaise” relieved while dating his secretary Sharon Kincaid and is pressured by 
his overbearing Aunt Emily and Uncle Jules to help his troubled cousin Kate Cutrer. This author of  
 The 
Last Gentleman 
 wrote about Dr. Thomas More in  
 Love in the Ruins  
 and his best-known work concerns the 
New Orleans stockbroker Binx Bolling. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Moviegoer 
. 
ANSWER: Walker  
Percy 
052-11-30-16124 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  6 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 16 
Bonuses 
1. Name these victories of Ulysses S. Grant, for 10 points each. 
[10] Also called the Battle of Pittsburg Landing, this two day Tennessee battle in 1862 saw intense fighting 
at the Hornet's Nest and the death of Confederate general Albert Sidney Johnston. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Shiloh 
[10] Grant got his nickname \"Unconditional Surrender\" by forcing Simon Bolivar Buckner to surrender this 
Tennessee fort near Fort Henry. 
ANSWER: Fort  
Donelson 
[10] Grant defeated Braxton Bragg at Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge during this campaign. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Chattanooga 
 [or  
Chattanooga 
 Campaign] 
015-11-30-16201 
2. The protagonist of this novel joins Glanton's violent gang of scalp-hunters with his companion Louis 
Toadvine. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel ending when \"the kid\" is murdered by the vicious Judge Holden in an outhouse. 
ANSWER:  
Blood Meridian 
[10]  
 Blood Meridian 
 was written by this American author who also penned  
No Country for Old Men 
 and  
The Road 
. 
ANSWER: Cormac  
McCarthy 
[10] The first novel of McCarthy's \"Border Trilogy,\"  
All the Pretty Horses 
, centers on this sixteen year-old 
cowboy who is thrown in jail with his friend Lacey Rawlins after Jimmy Blevins is executed for stealing a 
horse. 
ANSWER:  
John 
 Grady  
Cole 
 [accept either] 
015-11-30-16202 
3. This wife of Lapidoth led a successful attack against the Canaanites. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this only biblical female judge of the Israelites. 
ANSWER:  
Deborah 
[10] The battle between the Israelites and the Canaanites took place on this mountain in northern modern 
day Israel. Others believe it to be the site of the transfiguration of Christ. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Tabor 
[10] Deborah chose this member of the Napthali to command the Israeli army against the Canaanite army 
commanded by Sisera. 
ANSWER:  
Barak 
064-11-30-16203 
4. This sculptor designed the  
Athena Parthenos 
, the gold and ivory cult statue inside the Parthenon. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this ally of Pericles who was commissioned to decorate much of the Acropolis as the greatest of 
the Athenian sculptors. 
ANSWER:  
Phidias 
[10] This massive Phidias statue consisted of a seated figure holding a scepter. It was one of the wonders of 
the ancient world. 
ANSWER: Statue of  
Zeus 
 at Olympus 
[10] Pausanius claimed that this 30-foot Phidias bronze of a seated Athena was visible from the sea. It was 
placed between the Propylaea and Parthenon. 
ANSWER:  
Athena  Promachos 
015-11-30-16204 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  7 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. He painted a horseman observing from the background as three women bend at the waist in  
The 
Gleaners 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this artist of  
The Young Shepherdess 
 who was a leader of the Barbizon School. 
ANSWER: Jean-Francois  
Millet 
[10] In this Millet painting, two farmers bow their heads as they say the title prayer for their crops. It was 
originally entitled  
Prayer for the Potato Crop 
. 
ANSWER:  
The  Angelus 
[10] This other artist influenced by the Barbizon school painted a nude model staring at a landscape  
The 
Artist’s Studio 
 and brought an epic sensibility to a provincial funeral in  
The Burial at Ornans 
. 
ANSWER: Gustave  
Courbet 
015-11-30-16205 
6. In the buildup to this battle, Charles VIII had taken Naples without much opposition. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1495 battle in which a league of Italian cities joined to prevent French control of Italy. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Fornovo 
[10] The league that defeated the French is sometimes named for this constituent city, which was led by 
Doge Giovanni Mocenigo at the time. 
ANSWER:  
Venice 
[10] Along with Venice and Mantua, the League of Venice included forces from Milan, which was led at 
the time by Ludovico, a member of this family. 
ANSWER:  
Sforza 
 family 
015-11-30-16206 
7. One section of this work concerns the travails of the La Croce family including Totina who becomes a 
famous opera singer. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which the director Doctor Hinkfuss organizes a performance based on the novel  
Leonora, Addio 
. 
ANSWER:  
Tonight We Improvise 
 [or  
Questa sera si recita a soggetto 
] 
[10] This Italian author of  
Tonight We Improvise 
 wrote about a rehearsal of  
Mixing it Up 
 in  
Six Characters 
in Search of an Author 
. 
ANSWER: Luigi  
Pirandello 
[10] Some of  
Six Characters in Search of an Author 
 is set in the dressmaking shop of this woman, who 
may be a prostitute. 
ANSWER: Madame  
Pace 
015-11-30-16207 
8. Identify the following about a principle from quantum mechanics, for 10 points each. 
[10] Name this statement which states that when we consider systems at large quantum numbers, the 
systems properties resemble those of classical systems. 
ANSWER:  
correspondence principle 
[10] The correspondence principle was formulated by this Danish scientist, who proposed a model of the 
hydrogen atom in which electrons take on circular orbits. 
ANSWER: Niels Henrik David  
Bohr 
[10] Niels Bohr also developed this model of the nucleus which suggests that it can be treated as a sphere 
with a constant density everywhere. It led to the development of the Weizsacker semi-empirical mass 
formula for the nucleus. 
ANSWER:  
liquid-drop 
 model 
108-11-30-16208 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  8 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. This work claims that \"Everything about woman has one solution--that is, pregnancy.\" For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this work whose title character is accompanied by an eagle and a snake, and who sings a 
roundelay that asks, \"What does the deep midnight declare?\" Its prologue describes a tightrope walker who 
falls off the rope and dies. 
ANSWER:  
Also Sprach Zarathustra : Ein Buch fur Alle und Keinen 
 [or  
Thus Spoke Zarathustra : A Book 
for All and None 
] 
[10]  
Thus Spoke Zarathustra 
 was written by this German philosopher, who defined the \"Apollonian\" and 
\"Dionysian\" in  
The Birth of Tragedy 
. 
ANSWER: Friedrich Wilhelm  
Nietzsche 
[10] This Nietzsche book, subtitled “How to Philosophize with a Hammer,” discusses the problem of 
Socrates and the Four Great Errors. It was written as an introduction to his philosophy. 
ANSWER:  
Twilight of the Idols , or, How to Philosophize with a Hammer 
 [or  
Götzen-Dämmerung , oder, 
Wie man mit dem Hammer philosophiert 
] 
015-11-30-16209 
10. Defects in this organelle can lead to Kearns-Sayre syndrome, in which these organelles display \"ragged 
red fibers.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this organelle, whose namesake DNA is passed matrilineally and that is referred to as the 
powerhouse of the cell. 
ANSWER:  
mitochondrion 
 or  
mitochondria 
[10] The internal compartments, or folds, within a mitochondrion are known by this name. These folds are 
studded by proteins and provide the greatest surface area for cellular respiration to occur. 
ANSWER:  
cristae 
[10] In the electron transport chain, this coenzyme receives electrons from NADH and shuttles them 
between complex II and III. Unlike cytochrome c, it can carry two electrons at a time. 
ANSWER:  
coenzyme Q 
 or  
ubiquinone 
081-11-30-16210 
11. She decided not to kill all of humanity after drinking a river full of beer and pomegranate juice, which 
she had been tricked into thinking was blood. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Egyptian goddess worshipped in Memphis and depicted with the head of lioness. 
ANSWER:  
Sekhmet 
[10] Sekhmet fathered the architect Imhotep with this creator deity, depicted as a mummy. 
ANSWER:  
Ptah 
[10] Another of Ptah’s companions was one of these creatures named Apis. Other ones included Mnevis 
and Buchis. 
ANSWER:  
bull 
s 
079-11-30-16211 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  9 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This man adapted the story of the last Visigothic king of Hispania for his Italian opera  
Rodrigo 
. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this composer who composed the chorus \"See, the conquering hero comes\" for his oratorio  
Judas Maccabeus 
, which he wrote to celebrate the Duke of Cumberland's victory at the Battle of Culloden 
Moor. 
ANSWER: George Frideric  
Handel 
[10] George I allegedly liked this Handel suite so much that he made his musicians, who were on a barge, 
play it over again twice. Its most popular sections are likely its \"Air\" and \"Alla Hornpipe.\" 
ANSWER:  
Water Music 
[10] Handel was commissioned to compose four coronation anthems for George II. This first one, which is 
derived from the story of the anointing of Solomon, has been played at every coronation since. 
ANSWER:  
Zadok the Priest 
015-11-30-16212 
13. This equation is defined by the velocity squared divided by two plus the gravitational constant times 
elevation plus pressure divided by density is equal to a constant. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this simple equation of fluid mechanics, named for a Dutch-Swiss mathematician. 
ANSWER:  
Bernoulli 
’s equation 
[10] Bernoulli’s equation is a type of this more general type of equation which describe a conserved 
quantity. They are important in electromagnetism and fluid mechanics and generally have the time 
derivative of the conserved quantity added to the divergence of the flux of the quantity equal to the removal 
or addition of the quantity. 
ANSWER:  
continuity 
 equations 
[10] Bernoulli’s equation only applies to this type of flow where the divergence of the fluid velocity is 
zero. The measure of this property of a fluid is given by the change in density of the fluid with respect to 
pressure. 
ANSWER:  
incompressible 
 flow 
107-11-30-16213 
14. This group ruled Spain for several centuries prior to the Moorish conquest. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these \"barbarian\" peoples who, in 410, sacked Rome under the leadership of Alaric. 
ANSWER:  
Visigoth 
s [prompt on  
Goth 
s] 
[10] Attacks by Goths and other tribes aided Odoacer’s 476 AD deposition of this last of the Western 
Roman Emperors. 
ANSWER:  
Romulus Augustulus 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
[10] This emperor ruled the Byzantine Empire as Rome fell to Odoacer. He encouraged Theodoric to 
invade the Western Empire and promulgated the Henotikon in an effort to end the monophysite 
controversy. 
ANSWER:  
Zeno 
015-11-30-16214 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  10 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. The playwright Ernst Toller spent six days as president of a Socialist Republic established in this region 
in 1919. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German region which was the site of a 1778 to 1779 succession war between Joseph II and 
Frederick the Great upon the death of Maximilian Joseph. 
ANSWER:  
Bavaria 
[10] This capital of Bavaria was the site of Hitler’s Beer Hall Putsch and the murder of Israeli athletes at 
the 1972 Olympics. 
ANSWER:  
Munich 
[10] This king of Bavaria was a patron of Richard Wagner and built the exotic Neuschwanstein Castle. 
ANSWER:  
Ludwig II 
 of Bavaria [or  
Ludwig the Mad 
 or  
Mad King Ludwig 
; prompt on  
Ludwig 
] 
015-11-30-16215 
16. Maghrebi, Mesopotamian, Levantine, and Gulf are among the dialects of this language. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this Semitic tongue. 
ANSWER:  
Arabic 
[10] Arabic is written in this kind of letter system which, in contrast to an alphabet, does not contain vowel 
symbols. 
ANSWER: an  
abjad 
[10] Most words in Arabic use this kind of root, consisting of a certain number of letters to which transfixes 
are added to inflect words. 
ANSWER:  
triconsonantal 
 roots [or  
trilateral 
 roots] 
019-11-30-16216 
17. The defendant in this case was Irene Sanford, whose husband Dr. Emerson had lived in territories 
where slavery was illegal. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1857 Taney Court case that ruled that people of African descent were not citizens and had 
no standing to file suits in U.S. courts. 
ANSWER:  
Dred Scott  v. Sandford 
[10] As Secretary of the Treasury, Taney killed this institution by transferring federal funds into a 
Philadelphia bank. It was championed by Nicholas Biddle. 
ANSWER:  
Second Bank of the United States 
 [prompt on  
Bank of the United States 
] 
[10] This other decision of the Taney court ruled that the Commonwealth of Massachusetts had not violated 
its contract with the title institution, which hired Daniel Webster to argue its case. 
ANSWER:  
Charles River Bridge  v. Warren Bridge 
015-11-30-16217 
18. He briefly works at Gus Levy’s Pants factory but is fired after unsuccessfully attempting to lead a 
worker’s strike that he calls a “Crusade for Moorish Dignity.” For 10 points each; 
[10] Name this overweight character who corresponds with his long distance beatnik girlfriend Myrna 
Minkoff, always wears a green hunting cap, and lives with his mother Irene. 
ANSWER:  
Ignatius 
 J. Reilly 
[10] Ignatius J. Reilly is the protagonist of this novel set in New Orleans by John Kennedy Toole for which 
he won the Pulitzer Prize posthumously. 
ANSWER: A  
Confederacy of Dunces 
[10] Ignatius constantly complains that this internal body part is closing or being bloated whose movements 
he believes have prophetic significance. 
ANSWER: pyloric  
valve 
 [prompt on \"stomach\"] 
109-11-30-16218 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  11 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. These functions include internal energy, and the Gibbs free energy. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these functions in thermodynamics that are named similarly to energy that is defined as the 
capacity to do work. 
ANSWER: thermodynamic  
potential 
 functions 
[10] The thermodynamic potentials are all related to each other by this transform that also changes the 
Lagrangian into the Hamiltonian. It changes the variable in a function. 
ANSWER:  
Legendre 
 transformation 
[10] This thermodynamic potential is equal to the internal energy plus the product of volume and pressure. 
For constant pressure systems, the change in this equals the heat transfered. 
ANSWER:  
enthalpy 
107-11-30-16219 
20. Characters in this novel include the reverend Mr. Thwackum and society figure Lady Bellaston. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this novel whose protagonist falls in love with Sophia Western after being raised by her father 
Squire Allworthy. 
ANSWER:  
Tom Jones 
[10]  
Tom Jones 
 was written by this author, who satirized Richardson with his novel  
Shamela 
. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Fielding 
[10] After attending the hanging of this criminal, Fielding gave him the epithet “the Great” and wrote a 
novel titled after the history of his life. 
ANSWER:  
Jonathan Wild 
   [accept either] 
015-11-30-16220 
21. The title figure of this poem is described as “battening upon huge sea-worms in his sleep” and engaging 
in “ancient, dreamless, uninvaded sleep.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem about a mythological monster that sleeps “below the thunders of the upper deep.” 
ANSWER: “The  
Kraken 
” 
[10] “The Kraken” was written by this English poet of “The Charge of the Light Brigade” and “Mariana.” 
ANSWER: Alfred Lord  
Tennyson 
[10] In this Tennyson poem, a soldier remembers his love for his cousin Amy after stopping at the title 
estate. 
ANSWER: “ 
Locksley Hall 
” 
015-11-30-16221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 16     Page  12 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
