VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 9 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One character in this work is forced to sit in the coal-hole as punishment for running away and playing in 
the mud. Another character dies by accidentally falling into a stone-pit on his way home after inadvertently 
killing a horse belonging to his brother, Godfrey Cass. In this novel, the reclusive protagonist raises a baby 
he discovers in his cottage and names Eppie after his precious gold is stolen. For 10 points, name this novel 
about the title “Weaver of Raveloe” written by George Eliot. 
ANSWER:  
Silas Marner 
014-12-70-09101 
2. This President's Attorney General Janet Reno ordered the seizure of the Cuban immigrant child Elian 
Gonzalez. During his presidency, American helicopters were shot down in Mogadishu and FBI agents 
botched a raid on a cult complex in Waco, Texas. This man served as governor of Arkansas before his 
presidency, which was marred by perjury allegations and an impeachment after his relations with intern 
Monica Lewinsky. For 10 points, name this President from 1993 to 2001. 
ANSWER: Bill  
Clinton 
 [or William Jefferson  
Clinton 
; or William Jefferson  
Blythe 
 III] 
015-12-70-09102 
3. In one essay, this author considered the inadequacy of the suicide of Kirillov in  
The Possessed 
 and 
theorized that the title character must be happy in recognizing the absurdity of his existence. That essay 
compares the life of man to rolling a boulder up a hill for eternity. This author of  
The Myth of Sisyphus 
 also 
wrote a novel in which the killing of an Arab on the beach leads to the execution of Meursault (mur-SOH). 
For 10 points, name this French existentialist who wrote  
The Stranger. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Camus 
 (al-BAIR kah-MOO) 
014-12-70-09103 
4. This man won the Nobel Prize in Literature for his biography of his ancestor the Duke of Marlborough 
and his  
A History of the English-Speaking Peoples 
. This man praised some pilots in one speech by claiming 
\"Never was so much owed by so many to so few.\" After succeeding Neville Chamberlain as Prime 
Minister, he eschewed the appeasement strategy and promised \"we shall fight them on the beaches.\" For 10 
points, name this leader of Britain during World War II. 
ANSWER: Winston Leonard Spencer  
Churchill 
015-12-70-09104 
5. A differential in this property for two different phases gives the partition coefficient. A decrease in this 
quantity, one measure of which is a substance’s K sub sp value, for ionic compounds can be explained by 
the common ion effect. Henry’s law relates this quantity for a gas to the partial pressure of the gas. All 
common metal nitrates have this property, but most hydroxides, oxides, and phosphates do not. Usually 
measured with respect to water as a solvent, for 10 points, name this degree to which a substance can 
dissolve in another substance. 
ANSWER:  
solubility 
 [accept  
miscibility 
] 
131-12-70-09105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  1 of 9 
6. One composition of this type employs two orchestras and a boys’ choir and sets poems by Wilfred 
Owen. That composition, written by Benjamin Britten, is the “War” one. Another composition of this type 
was completed by Franz Xaver Süssmayr after the premature death of its composer, Wolfgang Amadeus 
Mozart. Compositions of this type often include such movements as the  
Kyrie eleison 
 and  
Dies Irae. 
 For 10 
points, name this type of liturgical composition, a special type of Mass for the dead. 
ANSWER:  
Requiem 
 Mass [prompt on  
Mass 
 until mentioned] 
014-12-70-09106 
7. As this character watches Miss Maudie Atkinson’s house burn down, someone she does not see puts a 
blanket over her. She and her brother exchange gifts with a stranger through a hole in a tree, until it is 
cemented over. Her friends include the family cook Calpurnia. This sister of Jem has her life saved by Boo 
Radley after the trial of Tom Robinson. For 10 points, name this daughter of Atticus Finch, the narrator of 
Harper Lee’s novel  
To Kill a Mockingbird. 
ANSWER: Jean Louise  
Scout 
 Finch [or  
Jean 
 Louise Finch; prompt on  
Finch 
] 
015-12-70-09107 
8. Different types of these proteins are distinguished by unique sequences in their hinge region, and some 
subtypes of them can fix complement. One isotype of these molecules is a dimer held together by a J chain. 
They consist of at least two heavy and two light chains connected by disulfide bonds, and they have both a 
constant and variable regions. These molecules are produced by B cells and attach to antigens, coating 
them for disposal. For 10 points, name these y-shaped immune proteins 
ANSWER:  
antibody 
 or  
immunoglobulin 
048-12-70-09108 
9. The protagonist of this novel works with Francois and Perrault delivering mail for the Canadian 
government. Its other characters include Manuel, a gardener who works for Judge Miller. The protagonist 
of this novel kills a rival named Spitz before being sold to the inexperienced Hal. The death of John 
Thornton causes the protagonist to kill a bunch of Yeehat Indians and disappear into the woods. For 10 
points, name this Jack London novel about the sled dog Buck. 
ANSWER:  
The  Call of the Wild 
015-12-70-09109 
10. In these organisms, two layers of cells are divided by the amoebocyte-containing mesohyl. These 
animals are divided into the groups Silicea and Calcarea depending on the material of the spicules that 
make up their skeletal system. \"Glass\" ones belong to the clade Hexactinellida. These animals excrete 
water through the osculum and consume food through the use of flagella-beating choanocytes. These 
suspension feeders take in food particles from the surrounding water. For 10 points, name these organisms 
belonging to the phylum Porifera. 
ANSWER:  
sponge 
s [or  
Porifera 
 before it is read] 
080-12-70-09110 
11. One character in this play declares “I have given you my soul; leave me my name!” Its characters 
include the clerk Ezekiel Cheever and the elderly farmer Giles Corey. The protagonist of this play initially 
does not expose the fraud of Abigail Williams because he does not want the town to know that he cheated 
on his wife Elizabeth. For 10 points, name this allegory for McCarthyism, an Arthur Miller play in which 
John Proctor is hanged during the Salem Witch Trials. 
ANSWER:  
The  Crucible 
015-12-70-09111 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  2 of 9 
12. The equipartition theorem states that the energy of each particle of an ideal gas is equal to three-halves 
times a constant times this quantity. The square root of three times this quantity times the ideal gas constant 
divided by a gas’s molar mass gives the gas’s root-mean-square speed. Charles’ law states that this 
quantity is directly proportional to gas volume at constant pressure. On an absolute scale, this quantity is 
directly proportional to the average kinetic energy of particles in a gas. For 10 points, name this quantity 
measured on the Rankine, Celsius, and Fahrenheit scales. 
ANSWER:  
temperature 
131-12-70-09112 
13. This country's second-largest city has endeavored to unclog its pipes by having all residents 
simultaneously flush their toilets at 7:30. Carl Mauch discovered an 11th-century city here containing a 
Great Enclosure surrounded by mortar-less 36 foot walls. Its second-largest city is Bulawayo. The Zambezi 
River forms this country's border with Zambia; it also borders Mozambique to the east and South Africa to 
the south. For 10 points, name this African country led by Robert Mugabe, which was formerly called 
Rhodesia. 
ANSWER:  
Zimbabwe 
080-12-70-09113 
14. In its heyday, this language had forms such as the Yevanic dialect used by Jewish speakers. Some 
newspapers and religious institutions preserve this language today in a modified form called Katharevousa 
(KAH-thah-ray-VOO-suh) Its dialects are divided into two broad categories of Doric and Attic, the latter of 
which includes the Koine (COY-nay) form that was used to write the New Testament. For 10 points, 
identify this ancient tongue that was used in the works of Sophocles and Homer. 
ANSWER: Ancient  
Greek 
 [or  
Ellinika 
] 
019-12-70-09114 
15. Morley's theorem states that this figure can be constructed from another polygon's angle trisectors. A 
fractal named for Sierpinski (SEAR-pin-skee) consists of these polygons placed inside one another. The 
area of this shape can be found using the formula s squared times the square root of three divided by four. 
All medians are congruent in this figure, as are all altitudes. For 10 points, name this kind of triangle that 
has three sixty degree interior angles and three congruent sides. 
ANSWER:  
equilateral triangle 
s [or  
equilateral 
 triangles after \"this kind of triangle\" is read; prompt on  
triangle 
s] 
131-12-70-09115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 9 
Directed Round 
1A.  What Aztec god was depicted as a feathered serpent? 
ANSWER:  
Quetzalcoatl 
1B.  What point guard for the Oklahoma City Thunder played at UCLA with Kevin Love? 
ANSWER: Russell  
Westbrook 
2A.  What force, which is proportional to the square of an object’s speed, is caused by a fluid resisting the 
movement of an object through it? 
ANSWER:  
drag 
 [prompt on  
air resistance 
 or  
fluid resistance 
] 
2B.  What President served two non-consecutive terms and was the favorite candidate of the Mugwumps 
during the 1884 election? 
ANSWER: Stephen Grover  
Cleveland 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. In the equation x^2 + 9 = 5x + 3, give all solutions for x. 
ANSWER: x =   and x =  
3 2 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Consider a triangle with two sides of lengths 6 and 8, and a 
third side of unknown length. What is the maximum possible length of the third side, rounded down to the 
nearest integer? 
ANSWER:   units 
13 
4A.  Name this symbol used to represent the fine structure constant and that denotes an individual in a 
community with the highest rank, which can be a male. 
ANSWER:  
alpha 
4B.  What function takes two vectors and returns a scalar proportional to the magnitudes and cosine of the 
angle between the vectors? 
ANSWER:  
dot product 
 [prompt on partial; do not accept “cross product”] 
5A.  What biomolecule with a cloverleaf-like secondary structure carries new amino acids to the ribosome 
during protein synthesis? 
ANSWER:  
tRNA 
 [or  
transfer RNA 
] 
5B.  What property of a star is a measure of light energy emission and is not to be confused with stellar 
brightness? 
ANSWER:  
luminosity 
6A.  Wikileaks founder Julian Assange is living in what Rafael Correa-led South American country’s 
London embassy? 
ANSWER:  
Ecuador 
6B.  Name the first Indian recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature, whose works include the novel  
The 
Home and the World 
 and the poetry collection  
Gitanjali. 
ANSWER: Rabindranath  
Tagore 
 [or Rabindranath  
Thakur 
] 
7A.  Saturated fats lack what kind of chemical connection which is present at least once in every alkene? 
ANSWER:  
double bond 
s 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the secant of 30 degree angle? 
ANSWER: 2 times root 3 over 3 [or  
two-thirds root three 
] 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  4 of 9 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the sum of the first seven terms of the Fibonacci 
sequence? 
ANSWER:  
33 
8B.  An iconic portrait probably depicting Jonathan Buttall titled  
The Blue Boy 
 was executed by what 
18th-century English painter? 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Gainsborough 
9A.  Which member of President Barack Obama's cabinet was held in contempt of Congress in June 2012 
due to the controversy over Operation Fast and Furious? 
ANSWER: Eric Himpton  
Holder, 
 Jr. 
9B.  Georges Seurat practiced what painting technique that involves forming images from small dots of 
color? 
ANSWER:  
pointilism 
10A.  What Pulitzer-winning David Mamet play depicts a group of real estate salesmen ruthlessly 
competing with each other for sales? 
ANSWER:  
Glengarry Glen Ross 
10B.  The self-proclaimed country of Western Sahara lies to the northwest of Mauritania and is currently 
claimed as the southern half of what other African country? 
ANSWER:  
Morocco 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 9 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. According to one story, this god trapped Theseus and Pirithous (PEE-rih-THOO-us) in their chairs after 
offering them a feast. He owns an invisible helmet that was made for him by the Cyclopes. This god split 
the three realms with his brothers Poseidon and Zeus. In one story, he uses some pomegranate seeds to 
force Persephone to be with him for part of the year after abducting her from Demeter. For 10 points, name 
this owner of the three-headed dog Cerberus and Greek god of the underworld. 
ANSWER:  
Hades 
 [or  
Pluto 
] 
015-12-70-09117 
2. Before it was switched to Mecca, Muslims prayed in the direction of this city, the site of the al-Aqsa 
mosque. In the Quran, Muhammad ascends to heaven from this city after riding the horse Buraq here, an 
event called the Night Journey. The site of Muhammad’s ascension is thought to be marked by the Dome 
of the Rock here. Other religious sites in this city include the Via Dolorosa, the Wailing Wall, and the 
Church of the Holy Sepulchre. For 10 points, name this Israeli city. 
ANSWER:  
Jerusalem 
015-12-70-09118 
3. One citizen of this city had his head thrown into his brother's camp after losing the Battle of the 
Metaurus River. That man was Hasdrubal, who along with Mago, Hanno, and Hamilcar was a member of 
this city's Barca family. This city's forces lost the Battle of Zama to Scipio Africanus, who salted its land so 
that nothing could grow according to a popular legend. For 10 points, name this North African city led by 
Hannibal, which fought several Punic Wars against Rome. 
ANSWER:  
Carthage 
 [or  
Carthago 
; or  
Kart-hadasht 
] 
015-12-70-09119 
4. In his first appearance, he can be defeated by being hit with five fireballs. He is commonly attributed 
with children including Wendy and Lemmy. In one appearance, he engages in a rivalry over who's stronger 
with O'Chunks. A DS game featuring his two main foes is entitled as his  
Inside Story 
. In his most recent 
Wii appearance, he is defeated while trying to use his Galaxy Generator and kidnapping Princess Peach. 
For 10 points, name this Nintendo villain, often cast opposite Mario. 
ANSWER:  
Bowser 
 [or  
King Koopa 
] 
088-12-70-09120 
5. In his final speech, this character asks, “Pray you, undo this button.” In another scene, he commands the 
“all-shaking thunder” to “smite flat the thick rotundity o’ the world.” This character states that “nothing 
will come of nothing” when his favorite daughter refuses to participate in a public love test. Accompanied 
into a storm by his fool, this character fails to save Cordelia from execution. For 10 points, name this 
British king, the title character of a Shakespearean tragedy. 
ANSWER: King  
Lear 
014-12-70-09121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  6 of 9 
6. One story relates that this man was banished after throwing his nephew Perdix off a cliff. He built a 
wooden cow for Pasiphae (PAH-si-fay) so that she could sleep with a bull without dying. Faced with trying 
to imprison the Minotaur, King Minos tasked this man with building the labyrinth. After this man was 
imprisoned, he escaped by designing wings from wax and feathers, although his son Icarus died when he 
flew too close to the sun. For 10 points, name this inventor from Greek mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Daedalus 
015-12-70-09122 
7. After being defeated by the llaneros (yah-NAIR-ohs) of Jose Tomas Boves, this man fled to Jamaica and 
wrote a letter proposing a government modeled on that of Britain. This man theorized about the fall of the 
First Republic in the Cartagena (CART-uh-HAY-nuh) Manifesto. This man won the Battles of Carabobo 
and Boyaca. For 10 points, name this president of Gran Colombia who liberated Venezuela and several 
other South American countries from Spanish rule. 
ANSWER: Simon  
Bolivar 
014-12-70-09123 
8. This poet concluded, “Our tree yet crowns the hill, our Scholar travels yet the loved hill-side” in a 
pastoral elegy written for his friend Arthur Hugh Clough. This poet of “Thyrsis” also wrote of an “eternal 
note of sadness” heard long ago by Sophocles (SAHF-uh-klees) in a poem in which the speaker exclaims, 
“Ah, love, let us be true to one another!” For 10 points, name this Victorian poet who described a “darkling 
plain…where ignorant armies clash by night” in his poem “Dover Beach.” 
ANSWER: Matthew  
Arnold 
014-12-70-09124 
9. John Ingram was unable to sustain this rebellion after its leader died of dysentery. This rebellion was 
opposed by the colonial governor William Berkeley, who was unable to prevent it from burning 
Jamestown. This rebellion was sparked by frontier Indian violence that went unaddressed by the colonial 
government. For 10 points, name this 1676 rebellion in Virginia that was led by a namesake planter. 
ANSWER:  
Bacon's 
 Rebellion 
015-12-70-09125 
10. This work reuses material from its composer’s opera  
Undina 
 in its second act, and this work is most 
often performed in the 1895 version of Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov. This work includes a “Dance with 
Goblets” near the end of its first act. Characters in this ballet include the crossbow-wielding Prince 
Siegfried and the evil wizard Von Rothbart. For 10 points, name this Tchaikovsky ballet in which Odette is 
transformed into the title creature. 
ANSWER:  
Swan Lake 
 [or  
Lebedinoye Ozero 
] 
014-12-70-09126 
11. A city on this river in Scioto County, Portsmouth, has a 77 foot floodwall built in response to this 
river’s 1937 flooding of that city. The city of Huntington is located at the confluence of this river and the 
Guyandotte, and the world’s oldest suspension bridge crosses this river in Wheeling. This river joins the 
Mississippi River in Cairo, Illinois, and Louisville is located on this river. For 10 points, name this river 
that forms the boundary between its namesake state and West Virginia and Kentucky. 
ANSWER:  
Ohio 
 River 
030-12-70-09127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  7 of 9 
12. The last episode of every season of this show opens as the song \"Carry on Wayward Son\" plays over a 
recap of the season's events. In a running gag on this show, the protagonists use names of rock stars like 
Lars Ulrich, Ted Nugent, and John Bonham on their fake FBI badges. On this show, the protagonists kill 
Lilith, accidentally freeing the devil, whom they must seal away along with the Archangel Michael. For 10 
points, name this CW show that stars Jared Padalecki and Jensen Ackles as the monster-hunting brothers 
Sam and Dean Winchester. 
ANSWER:  
Supernatural 
080-12-70-09128 
13. Underwater examples of these structures include guyots (GEE-ohs). Biomes associated with these 
structures parallel what one would expect from increasing latitude. These structures cause air to condensate 
and precipitate, thus forming a \"rain shadow\" on their lee side. These structures are formed in orogenies, 
which can happen when two plates collide. For 10 points, name these landforms that stretch above the 
surrounding area and whose largest example on Earth is Everest. 
ANSWER:  
mountain 
 ranges 
066-12-70-09129 
14. In one novel by this writer, a man contemplates killing his father with a pestle in the belief that his lover 
Grushenka has accepted his father’s bribe to sleep with him. Another character created by this writer 
deliriously condemns the proposed strategic marriage between his sister Dunya and Pyotr Petrovich 
Luzhin. That character, a poor student, murders the pawnbroker Alyona Ivanovna and subsequently has a 
breakdown. For 10 points, name this Russian novelist of  
The Brothers Karamazov 
 who created 
Raskolnikov (rahs-KOL-nih-koff) in  
Crime and Punishment. 
ANSWER: Fyodor  
Dostoevsky 
 [or Fyodor Mikhaylovich  
Dostoevsky 
] 
014-12-70-09130 
15. This thinker explained how interest rates are determined using his concept of liquidity preference. This 
thinker criticized the massive reparations exacted from Germany in the Treaty of Versailles in his  
The 
Economic Consequences of the Peace. 
 He argued for the necessity of increasing aggregate demand in a 
book which influenced American policies adopted during the Great Depression. For 10 points, name this 
British economist who advocated deficit spending in  
The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and 
Money. 
ANSWER: John Maynard  
Keynes 
014-12-70-09131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 9 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. In the ocean, a minimum for this quantity occurs in a layer known as the SOFAR channel. This value is 
equal to the square root of the bulk modulus divided by the density. Dividing the velocity of an object by 
this value gives the Mach number, and surpassing this value causes a sonic boom. For 10 points, name this 
value which in air is approximately 340 meters per second, the velocity at which acoustic waves travel 
through a medium. 
ANSWER:  
speed of sound 
 [accept obvious equivalents] 
048-12-70-09132 
2. Albert Einstein wrote a 1939 letter to Franklin Roosevelt stressing the necessity of this program. The 
main production base for this program was in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Much of its testing took place at 
White Sands because of the proximity to Los Alamos. This project was led by Robert Oppenheimer, and it 
led to the Enola Gay dropping \"Little Boy\" on Hiroshima. For 10 points, name this American effort to 
develop the atomic bomb that was named for a New York borough. 
ANSWER:  
Manhattan 
 Project 
015-12-70-09133 
3. The tcsh shell is named after this language due to its similar syntax. Dynamic memory allocation is done 
in this language with the use of malloc. This language's \"string\" is commonly used to denote a string that is 
null-terminated. The authoritative book on this language, often abbreviated K&R, was written by Brian 
Kernighan and this language's developer, Dennis Ritchie, who created it while at Bell Labs. For 10 points, 
identify this most widely-used and influential programming language. 
ANSWER:  
C 
066-12-70-09134 
4. This modern-day country engaged in an independence war against Spain called the Eighty Years' War. It 
was led by a line of stadtholders from the House of Orange, which was founded by William the Silent. The 
South African Boers were descended from settlers from this country, which also colonized Suriname and 
Indonesia. Anne Frank hid for two years in a house in this country. For 10 points, name this country that 
has used dikes to protect its cities of Rotterdam and Amsterdam. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of the  
Netherlands 
 [or Koninkrijk der  
Nederland 
en] 
015-12-70-09135 
5. This poem describes “More happy love! more happy, happy love…forever panting, and forever young.” 
In a later stanza, the speaker tells the addressee, “When old age shall this generation waste, thou shalt 
remain…a friend to man.” That addressee of this poem is a “foster-child of silence and slow time” and a 
“still unravished bride of quietness” which declares, “Beauty is truth, truth beauty.” For 10 points, name 
this ode by John Keats addressing a certain work of art. 
ANSWER: “ 
Ode on a Grecian Urn 
” 
014-12-70-09136 
This is a calculation question. If sin x = .64, what is the cosine of x? 
2 
ANSWER:   [or  
.6 3/5 
] 
In what 1776 book did Adam Smith propose an “invisible hand” which guides the free market? 
ANSWER:  
The  Wealth of Nations 
 [or  
An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the  Wealth of Nations 
] 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     9     Page  9 of 9 
