NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 TOSSUPS  
1. In one of this man's poems, Simon Zealot claims, \"If they think they ha' slain our Goodly Fere  
they are fools eternally.\" Another of this author's poems mimics the song \"Go Lovely Rose\" by  
addressing a \"dumb-born book\" in the section \"Envoi.\" In another, a \"stirrer-up of strife\"  
declares, \"Damn it all! All this our South stinks of Peace!\" This author wrote, \"the age demanded  
an image of its accelerated grimace,\" and described a man whose \"true Penelope was Flaubert\" in  
one poem. This poet wrote the \"Pisan\" section of one work while being detained in a cage, and  
he described \"petals on a wet, black bough\" in a two line poem. For 10 points, name this poet of  
\"Hugh Selwyn Mauberley,\" \"In a Station of the Metro,\" and  The Cantos.   
ANSWER: Ezra  Pound   
2. This man peeled poles of wood from almond trees and placed them next to a watering hole,  
after he tricked his father-in-law into giving him the striped and speckled animals from his  
flocks. Many Jewish services begin with a prayer praising this man's tents,  Ma Tovu.  This  
Biblical character renamed the site of Luz to Bethel, which was the place his mother died. While  
sleeping on a stone, this man dreamed of angels ascending to heaven. Though his birth name  
literally means \"heel\", he was given a new name meaning \"he who struggles with God\", or Israel.  
This man dressed up in goatskins to steal his brother's birthright. For 10 points, name this brother  
of Esau and son of Isaac.  
ANSWER:  Jacob  [or  Israel  before it is read; or  Yaakov ]  
3. This is the first note of the tone row on which Webern's  String Quartet  is based. Brahms's  
Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Handel  is based on a harpsichord suite in this note's major  
key. The Beethoven string quartet whose last movement was initially the  Grosse Fuge  is in this  
note's major key. Chopin used this note's minor key for a piano sonata whose somber third  
movement gives the piece the nickname the \"Funeral March.\" There are five flats in the minor  
key of this note, which is what the C played on a trumpet or clarinet sounds like. This note is the  
first flat added in the circle of fifths. For 10 points, name this note that is the only accidental in  
the key of F major, and which in equal temperament is the same as A sharp.  
ANSWER:  B flat  [or  B-flat  major; or  B-flat  minor]  
4. This person was accused by the Girondins of complicity in the defection of General Charles- 
Francois Dumouriez. This man argued against moving the government from Paris to Blois in a  
speech in which he said, \"Audacity, more audacity, and always audacity!\" This man founded an  
organization to prevent the \"infractions of the rights of man\" known as the Cordeliers Club.  
Though the extent of his role in the event is unclear, this man was given credit for an August 10,  
1792 march on the Tuileries that resulted in the end of the Bourbon monarchy in France. For 10  
point, name this French Revolutionary leader who served as the first president of the Committee  
of Public Safety but was ultimately executed due to his opposition to the Reign of Terror.  
ANSWER: Georges  Danton 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 TOSSUPS  
5. This poet's relationship with his psychologist W. H. R. Rivers is treated in Pat Barker's  
Regeneration  trilogy. In an autobiographical series of novels by this poet, the protagonist is  
saved by the intervention of David Cromlech, who is a thinly-veiled version of Robert Graves.  
This author of  Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man    ended a poem telling “you smug-faced crowds  
with kindling eyes” to “sneak home and pray you'll never know the hell where youth and  
laughter go.” This author of “Suicide in the Trenches” also described a soldier who drowns in the  
mud trying to retake lost ground. For 10 points, name this author of “Counter-Attack” and other  
poems about his time in World War I, who was a personal hero to Wilfred Owen.  
ANSWER: Siegfried  Sassoon   
6. During 2006 protests in his country, this person's skull was stolen and his grave was defaced  
with the phrase \"murderers and traitors shall not rest on holy ground.\" To contrast with his more  
radical predecessor, he made speeches claiming that \"whoever is not against us is with us.\" He  
was imprisoned and tortured by the AVH under orders of Gabor Peter. Despite receiving a letter  
from this person promising safe passage, his erstwhile prime minister was arrested and hanged  
after leaving the Yugoslav embassy. This man's regime was described with terms like \"the  
happiest barrack\" and \"Goulash communism.\" He took power after the Soviet Union invaded his  
country in 1956 and deposed Imre Nagy. For 10 points, name this Communist ruler of Hungary.  
ANSWER: Janos  Kadar  [or Janos Joszef  Czermanek ]  
7. One device that performs this task uses an ISFET sensor to monitor the release of hydrogen  
ions, while another method uses a zero-mode waveguide for fluorescent detection. An  
experimental method for doing this that fits in a USB drive threads the substrates through a  
nanopore. Another method of performing this task couples luciferase activity to pyrophosphate  
release. Besides the IonTorrent, 454, and Illumina versions of this technology, a more common  
method of doing this uses capillary electrophoresis to read fluorescently-terminated chains; that  
method is named for Sanger. The data from this technique can be overlapped to form contigs in  
the Shotgun method, which was used by the Craig-Venter-owned Celera corporation. For 10  
points, name this method for determining the order of nucleotides in an organism's genome.  
ANSWER:  DNA sequencing  [or  nucleic acid sequencing  or  RNA sequencing ; do not accept  
\"protein sequencing\"]  
8. The Derveni papyrus is attributed to this man, who names a set of ancient world beliefs in  
which a silver egg surrounded by a serpent hatches into the god Phanes. This human names a set  
of hymns worshipping the proto-Dionysiac god Zagreus. He relates several stories, including the  
deaths of Cyparissus and Adonis, after he incites a grove of trees to grow around him in Book X  
of Ovid's  Metamorphoses . The Hebrus river contained part of this Ciconian king after maenads  
ripped his head off. This man helped the Argonauts overcome the Sirens some time after his wife  
died by snakebite on their wedding night. For 10 points, name this man who defied an order not  
to look behind him, a mythical musician who failed to rescue his lover Eurydice from Hades.  
ANSWER:  Orpheus 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 TOSSUPS  
9. In this novel, Ferdi Progulske is executed after attempting to kill a gym teacher with a bomb.  
A character in this novel is called the \"purest God's little lamb\" before being sent off to work in  
hotel service. The protagonist of this novel swears to \"never make oblation to the  Host of the  
Beast. \" In this novel, Nettlinger attempts to visit the protagonist in the Prince Heinrich Hotel.  
The protagonist of this novel, an architect named Robert, destroyed St. Anthony's Abbey three  
days before World War II ended. For 10 points, name this novel about the Faemel family, one of  
whom plays the title game daily, written by Heinrich Böll.  
ANSWER:  Billiards at Half-Past Nine  [or  Billiard um halb zehn ]  
10. One of this composer's operas ends with the Latin mnemonic tune \"Malo\" being sung in the  
manner of a requiem. In another of his operas, townspeople sing a threnody for the title character  
upon seeing a crushed wreath and Lady Billows organizes the May Day festival. A boat is  
intentionally sunk at the end of, and two euphemistically-labeled \"nieces\" and the schoolmistress  
Ellen appear in, this composer's opera about a fisherman who abuses his apprentices, which  
includes the separately-published  Four Sea Interludes.  His most famous operatic character, a  
stammering sailor, murders his master-at-arms Claggart. For 10 points, name this English  
composer of  Albert Herring, Peter Grimes,  and  Billy Budd.   
ANSWER: Edward Benjamin  Britten , Baron Britten  
11. This painter mocked the trend of spectators gaping at collisions and accidents in his canvas  
Steaming Streets.  This artist painted German soldiers hiding behind naked bodies in  The  
Barricade,  part of his series on World War I atrocities. This man depicted the black Joe Gans in  
a painting satirizing the practice of barring \"socially unacceptable\" members from joining private  
groups. In another of this artist's paintings, a blue-shirt wearing referee stands behind two men.  
His paintings  Both Members of This Club, Stag at Sharkey's,  and  Dempsey and Firpo  all  
showcase his favorite subject matter. For 10 points, name this artist of urban New York noted for  
his many paintings of boxing scenes.  
ANSWER: George  Bellows   
12. A transducer commonly used with this technology consists of stacks of piezoelectric ceramic  
disks separated by electrodes and sandwiched between a stiff, light head mass and dense, heavy  
tail mass. That transducer is the  tonpilz,  so-named for its mushroom-like shape. The multibeam  
form of this technology produces a \"swath\" of data that is typically used to produce bathymetric  
charts while its sidescan form is used in conjunction with a towfish. The passive type of this  
technology does not have variables such as projector source level and reverberation level, which  
are instead components of its active type. Concerns over its use include the mass stranding of  
whales. For 10 points, identify this underwater acoustic technology.  
ANSWER:  SONAR  [or  sound navigation and ranging ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 TOSSUPS  
13. During The Anarchy, Empress Matilda escaped siege of this city's castle by walking across a  
frozen river. In Anglo-Saxon times, this town was at a strategic point between Wessex and  
Mercia. Historians believe that Geoffrey of Monmouth wrote down his Arthurian legends in this  
city's chapel. A document written in this city established a 24-member council which Simon de  
Montfort intended to use to check Henry III's royal power; those namesake \"Provisions\" helped  
kick off the Barons' Wars. For 10 points, name this city where students from Merton and Balliol  
colleges got into early \"town-gown\" riots, home to the oldest university in Britain.  
ANSWER:  Oxford  [or  Oxon ]  
14. In a jealous fit, this novel’s protagonist is unable to stop thinking about the phrase, “Do you  
mind if I pull down the curtain?” Maria Wallis shoots an Englishman at a train station in this  
novel. In this novel’s final scene, the protagonist divorces his wife while the Tour de France is  
passing by. At a ski lodge, this novel's protagonist meets a rich American heiress named Baby  
Warren. Abe North’s alcohol-driven deterioration parallels the protagonist’s own downward  
spiral, culminating with Tommy Barban marrying his wife. In this novel, Hollywood darling  
Rosemary Hoyt wins the attentions of a celebrated psychologist. For 10 points, name this semi- 
autobiographical novel about Nicole and Dick Diver, written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.  
ANSWER:  Tender Is the Night   
15. Using Weyl ordering in a formalism due to this scientist leads to the midpoint prescription. In  
that formalism due to this physicist, the integral kernel, or propagator, of the time-evolution  
operator is expressed as the sum over all possible paths with a weighting factor proportional to  
the exponential of the action. That formalism is the path integral formulation. Like Julian  
Schwinger, this American's work on the renormalization of quantum electrodynamics won him a  
Nobel, and the arrow-containing-lines and squiggly lines that appear on his namesake diagrams  
are iconic of particle physics. For 10 points, name this bongo drum enthusiast whose undergrad  
lectures at CalTech were made into the three volume set  Lectures on Physics.   
ANSWER: Richard \"Dick\"  Feynman   
16. Decompositions of a type of these things are found with the Littlewood-Richardson rule; that  
type is the characters of irreducible representations of general linear groups, are indexed by  
partitions, and are named for Schur. A method of proving the Cayley-Hamilton theorem is  
showing the minimal one of them divides another one of them. A Grobner basis is defined over  
an ideal over a ring of these things. Eisenstein names a criterion that tells when these things are  
irreducible. Algebraically closed fields have the property that these thingss associated with that  
field can be split into linear factors, and the Abel-Ruffini theorem proved that there is no general  
formula for solutions of these things of degree five or higher. For 10 points, name these functions  
which consists of the sum of several terms with a variable raised to integer exponents.  
ANSWER:  polynomial 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 TOSSUPS  
17. These thinkers' belief in up to three  ochemata,  or \"vehicles\" for the soul, was proferred by  
Iamblichus and Proclus, who both also advocated a form of folk-magic called theurgy. A treatise  
\"On Beauty\" from this school was among fifty-four translated by Renaissance scholar Marsilio  
Ficino. These thinkers thought that Intellect and the World-Soul were first in a hierarchy of  
\"emanations\" from The One. Thinkers in this mold included the author of the  Isagoge,  Porphyry,  
who edited the  Enneads  of his teacher Plotinus. For 10 points, name this body-hating, late  
Roman style of thought, a mystical reworking of ideas from the author of the  Symposium.   
ANSWER:  Neoplatonism  [or  Neoplatonist s; prompt on  Platonism ; prompt on  Platonist s]  
18. Clark L. Hull attempted to explain this psychological process through mathematics. A theory  
of this process suggests it is most effective when following a progression from enactive to iconic  
to symbolic representation, and was put forward by Jerome Bruner. The ability of a rat to solve a  
T-shaped maze based on identifying the color of a box rather than its position was attributed to  
the \"discrimination\" type of this process. Albert Bandura incorporated the phenomenon of  
vicarious reinforcement into a \"social\" theory of this process, which was tested through the Bobo  
Doll experiment when children performed it after observing the behavior of others. For 10  
points, identify this process which causes a change in behavior based upon previous information  
or experience, and may be performed by reading books.  
ANSWER:  learn ing [or discrimination  learning ; or social  learning ; prompt on  memorization ;  
prompt on  conditioning ; do not accept \"operant conditioning\" or \"classical conditioning\"]  
19. This location was named by Dr. Lafayette Bunnell, who entered it while part of a battalion  
chasing Chief Tenaya. James Mason Hutchings ran a hotel here, where he employed a Scottish- 
American who had walked from Indiana to Florida in 1867. The Raker Act authorized the  
building of a dam in the northern portion of this place at Hetch Hetch Valley. A famous  
photograph shows Teddy Roosevelt and this park's major spokesman, John Muir, at Glacier  
Point. This park is where the Half Dome and El Capitan can be found. For 10 points, name this  
national park in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, which covers the eastern portions of Mariposa  
County in California.  
ANSWER:  Yosemite  National Park  
20. Elizabeth Baer was originally a co-defendant with the namesake of this Supreme Court case.  
The results of this case were ultimately weakened by the \"bad tendency\" test introduced in  
Patterson v. Colorado  and used in  Whitney v. California . This case was overturned by  
Brandenburg v. Ohio,  which used the test of \"imminent lawless action\" in 1969. The plaintiff in  
this case was the general secretary of the Socialist Party, and violated the Espionage Act by  
distributing anti-draft leaflets. For 10 points, identify this 1919 Supreme Court case in which  
Oliver Wendell Holmes used the analogy of \"shouting fire in a crowded theater\" in establishing  
limitations on the First Amendment via the use of the \"clear and present danger\" test.  
ANSWER:  Schenck  v. United States 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 TOSSUPS  
21. During this event, crowds gathered around a set of stuffed kittens that were drinking tea.  
According to  The Illustrated London News , agriculturalists complained about a lack of air  
conditioning at this event; transportation to and from which was organized by Thomas Cook. A  
building used during this event was given its name by \"Mrs Amelia Mouser,\" who was actually  
Douglas Jerrold. That building was designed by Joseph Paxton and housed an exhibit on the  
Koh-i-Noor diamond as well as Hiram Powers  The Greek Slave  . Henry Cole and Prince Albert  
organized this event, for which a large cast-iron and glass building was built. For 10 points, the  
Crystal Palace was built for British fair that was held during the reign of Queen Victoria?  
ANSWER:  Great Exhibition  of the Works of Industry of all Nations [or The  Great Exhibition  
of 1851; or  Crystal Palace Exhibition ]  
22. This novel’s protagonist recalls always doffing his hat to a blind man after helping him  
across the street. In another scene, the main character confronts a stalled motorcyclist, only to be  
told by another man it is abhorrent to strike someone “who had a motorcycle between his legs.”  
The protagonist of this novel obtains a stolen panel from the Ghent Altarpiece called  The Just  
Judges.  This book is narrated by a man sitting in an Amsterdam bar called  Mexico City  who  
undergoes a spiritual crisis after doing nothing to stop a woman jumping off the Pont Royal  
Bridge. For 10 points, name this Albert Camus novel which consists of a series of monologues  
by a \"judge-penitent\" named Jean-Baptiste Clamence.  
ANSWER:  The  Fall  [or  La  Chute ]  
23. Ganister, a quartzose sandstone, is usually found in the seatearth, or underclay, that underlies  
this rock. This rock is \"treasured\" by paleobotanists because nodules in it can be \"peeled\" by  
slicing, etching with acid, coating with acetone, and applying a cellulose acetate film to give a  
detailed view of fossilized plants, including cell nuclei and chloroplasts. Those nodules are  
namesake \"balls\" of petrified plant matter. Like kerogen-bearing shales, its composition can be  
divided into three maceral groups: inertinite, liptinite, and vitrinite. The rank of this rock  
increases from its lignite type to its anthracite type and is a measure of its percent amount of  
carbon. For 10 points, name this rock whose formation begins with the burial of peat.  
ANSWER:  coal 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 BONUSES  
1. Answer the following about Thomas Cole's  Voyage of Life  series, for 10 points each.  
[10] One of these beings flies in front of the boat undergoing the title voyage to protect the man  
in the boat. Fra Angelico's   Annunciation  depicts another one zooming into the frame.  
ANSWER: arch angel s  
[10] How many paintings are there depicting stages on  The Voyage of Life?  The first one is  
called  Childhood  and the last is called  Old Age .  
ANSWER:  four   
[10] The  Voyage of Life  series is displayed on four corners of a room in this institution. Its  
oculus-bearing dome is supported by dark marble columns above a fountain with a statue of  
Hermes, and its Sculpture Garden was completed in 1999.  
ANSWER:  National Gallery  of Art, Washington D.C.  
2. The hairy ball theorem states that the tangent one of these over the sphere cannot be  
everywhere nonzero. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these constructs in linear algebra that consists of elements that add associatively,  
commutatively, have inverses, and are closed under scalar multiplication.  
ANSWER:  vector field   
[10] This operation defines the norm for normed vector spaces, since the square of the norm of a  
vector is equal to this operation taken on a vector with itself. For vectors A and B in the standard  
Euclidean sense, this operation is equal to A B cosine theta.  
ANSWER:  dot  product [or  inner  product]  
[10] This type of space, which is designated by putting an asterisk next to the name of a vector  
space, consists of all the linear functionals on another vector space. There's an isomorphism from  
the vector space V to the \"double\" form of this kind of space over V.  
ANSWER:  dual  space  
3. The simplest one of these compounds stimulates the development of flowers and ripening of  
fruit in its role as a plant hormone. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this group of organic compounds with a double bond, exemplified by ethylene.  
ANSWER:  alkene s [or  olefin s]  
[10] A double bond consists of a sigma bond and one of these bonds formed from overlapping p  
orbitals.  
ANSWER:  pi  bond  
[10] In molecular orbital theory, this type of orbital is located outside of the nuclei, and is  
denoted with an asterisk. They are higher in energy than another type of molecular orbital.  
ANSWER:  antibonding  orbitals 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 BONUSES  
4. The Sanskrit word \"Dhyana\" is the origin for the name of this religion. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this branch of Mahayana Buddhism that asks unanswerable questions called koans  
and is practiced in Eastern Asia.  
ANSWER:  Zen  Buddhism  
[10] Zen Buddhism supposedly had its legend in this story in which Buddha handed the  
namesake object to his follower Mahakashyapa while sitting at a pond.  
ANSWER:  Flower Sermon   
[10] This man is considered the founder of Zen Buddhism. He traveled to China from India and  
ripped out his eyelids after meditating at Shaolin Temple for nine years.  
ANSWER:  Bodhidharma   
5. This experiment determined that most of an atom's mass was located in the nucleus. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Identify this experiment, headed by Ernest Rutherford, that shot particles at a thin sheet of  
metal where they were deflected.  
ANSWER: Rutherford  gold foil  experiments [or  Geiger-Marsden  experiments]  
[10] The gold foil experiment was actually conducted by Ernest Marsden and Hans Geiger, who  
proposed a law with John Mitchell Nuttall that very accurately gave the decay constant for this  
process.  
ANSWER:  alpha  decay [or the  emission  of a  helium nucleus ; or obvious equivalents]  
[10] The mystery of alpha decay was solved by George Gamow, who used the WKB  
approximation and this quantum mechanical phenomenon, in which a particle passes through a  
barrier it cannot classically surmount.  
ANSWER: quantum  tunneling   
6. Because this man held lavish gastronomic feasts, his surname is now an adjective meaning  
\"extremely luxurious.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this  optimate  who, when away from the home front, defended the besieged city of  
Cyzicus and won the Battle of Tigranocerta in a series of major victories during the Third  
Mithridatic War.  
ANSWER: Lucius Licinius  Lucullus   
[10] Lucullus took over command of the Roman armies in the Mithridatic Wars for this general,  
a late Roman Republic politician who revived the office of dictator, served as consul twice, and  
was Marius's sworn enemy.  
ANSWER: Lucius Cornelius  Sulla  Felix  
[10] Lucullus and Sulla both served in this position held by lowest-ranking magistrates tasked  
with keeping a watch on the state's treasury.  
ANSWER:  quaestor 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 BONUSES  
7. The Ptolemaic, Seleucid, and Antigonid dynasties all arose during this era. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this term from classical history for the era in which Greek culture flourished across  
Eurasia and Africa in the wake of Alexander the Great's conquests.  
ANSWER:  Hellenistic  period  
[10] This home city of Pindar, which a young Alexander the Great had destroyed in 335 BCE,  
was rebuilt during the Hellenistic era. Its Sacred Band was a regiment made up of pairs of male  
lovers.  
ANSWER:  Thebes  [or  Thebai ]  
[10] This region east of the Seleucid empire and south of Sogdiana, surrounding the Amu Darya  
river in Central Asia, was perhaps the furthest-flung area of Hellenistic influence. The Greek  
kings of this region converted to Buddhism  
ANSWER: Greco- Bactria   
8. According to one theory, the mind uses both the situation and the physical response to a  
stimulus to interpret these phenomena. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these phenomena explained by the Schachter-Singer and Cannon-Bard theories,  
which include happiness, sadness, and fear.  
ANSWER:  emotion s  
[10] This first theory proposed to explain emotions describes how the mind receives the bodily  
response first and experiences emotion afterwards.  
ANSWER:  James-Lange  theory [prompt on partial]  
[10] This other theory pairs emotions like fear and relief or pleasure and pain, and states the body  
suppresses the opposite response in certain situations. For example, addicts use drugs to suppress  
pain, and then feel the pain returning when the drug wears off.  
ANSWER:  opponent-process  theory  
9. In the  Investiture of the Gods,  this goddess’ subordinates included the Nine-headed Pheasant.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this creator goddess who cut off the legs of a tortoise to repair the pillar of heaven.  
ANSWER:  Nuwa  [or  Nu Gua ]  
[10] Nuwa is a deity from the mythology of this nation. In this mythology, the chief deity is the  
Jade Emperor.  
ANSWER:  China   
[10] Nuwa’s husband, Fu Xi, is often considered a member of this many sovereigns, which are  
paired with the Five Emperors. This many \"Pure Ones\" are an important group in Daoist myth.  
ANSWER:  three 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 BONUSES  
10. Answer the following about French sculpture, for 10 points each.  
[10] Francois Rude created the sculpture group  Departure of the Volunteers,  also known as  La  
Marseillaise,  for one of the four pillars of this monument; the other three depict events from the  
Napoleonic Wars.  
ANSWER:  Arc de Triomphe  de l'Etoile  
[10] This preeminent Rococo sculptor was working at his porcelain factory at Sevres when  
Catherine the Great invited him to Russia, where he sculpted the Bronze Horseman as a  
monument to Peter the Great.  
ANSWER: Etienne Maurice  Falconet   
[10] This component of Rodin's  Gates of Hell  depicts a sitting man, who may represent intellect  
or philosophy, with his chin resting on one hand.  
ANSWER:  The  Thinker  [or  Le  Penseur ]  
11. A magazine entitled “Today” published in this nation often featured the works of the Misty  
Poets. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this nation, whose other important literary figures included the author of a story about  
a man who begins to see the order to “eat people” in the lines of old texts, entitled “A Madman’s  
Diary.”  
ANSWER:  China   
[10] Lu Xun, the author of “A Madman’s Diary,” wrote the \"true story\" of this character, who  
convinces himself that he has won “spiritual victories” when in reality he keeps losing.  
ANSWER:  Ah Q   
[10] This other Chinese novel’s protagonist is the compulsive gambler Xu Fugui, who loses his  
entire family and buys an ox as a companion. It was written by Yu Hua.  
ANSWER:  To Live  [or  Huozhe ]  
12. This man eventually marries the Indian princess Aouda, whom he had saved from the custom  
of burning herself on a funeral pyre for her first husband. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this man who wins a bet after realizing that he has returned to the Reform Club a day  
earlier than he thought.  
ANSWER:  Phileas  Fogg [or Phileas  Fogg ]  
[10] This speculative fiction author of  Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea  detailed Phileas  
Fogg's journeys with Passepartout in  Around the World in Eighty Days.   
ANSWER: Jules  Verne   
[10] This detective chases after Phileas Fogg, believing that Fogg recently robbed the Bank of  
England.  
ANSWER: Detective  Fix 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 BONUSES  
13. In May 2014, the holder of this Cabinet post said he was \"mad as hell\" over a scandal that  
had been uncovered. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Cabinet position, whose now-resigned occupant, Eric Shinseki, was criticized  
over May 2014 revelations involving deaths, poor health care, and falsification of records.  
ANSWER: Secretary of  Veterans Affairs  [or  VA  Secretary]  
[10] The Secretary of Veterans Affairs is fifteenth in line to the presidency, trailing this position  
held as of May 2014 by Arne Duncan, a proponent of Race to the Top.  
ANSWER: Secretary of  Education   
[10] Shinseki was raked over the coals by the Congressional Committee on Veterans' Affairs,  
which is chaired by this Senator. This man sarcastically asked \"How many homes can you own?\"  
during a famous eight and a half hour speech railing against the 2010 Tax Relief Act.  
ANSWER: Bernard \"Bernie\"  Sanders   
14. While this man was delivering his first live television speech, a white dove landed on his  
shoulder and remained for an hour. For 10 points each,  
[10] Identify this man who was photographed laying a wreath at the feet of the Lincoln Memorial  
by Alberto Korda. This person represented himself in court after a failed attack on the Moncada  
barracks.  
ANSWER: Fidel  Castro   
[10] Alberto Korda also took a photo of this right hand man of Castro titled Guerrillero Heroico.  
This Argentinian doctor oversaw the executions of hundreds of people at La Cabaña prison.  
ANSWER:  Che Guevara  [accept either underlined portion]  
[10] Fidel Castro gave this all-day speech, which failed to prevent his conviction for the  
Moncada attack.  
ANSWER: “ History Will Absolve Me ” [or “La  Historia Me Absolverá ”]  
15. This character complains that, \"It's awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the  
daytime, but at night it is another thing.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this character who, lamenting his impotence, tells Lady Brett Ashley, \"Isn't it pretty  
to think so?\" at the end of the novel.  
ANSWER:  Jake  Barnes [or Jake  Barnes ]  
[10] Jake visits Pamplona, watches some bull-fighting, and drinks himself into a stupor, all while  
narrating this Ernest Hemingway novel set in post-World War I Europe.  
ANSWER:  The  Sun Also Rises   
[10] Before going to Pamplona, Jake goes fishing with this other American veteran. This  
character jokes that the Civil War was really fought over homosexuality in a rare sober moment.  
ANSWER:  Bill  Gorton [or Bill  Gorton ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 BONUSES  
16. This ethnic group drew from the native and colonized populations of the Plantation of Ulster.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this primarily Presbyterian ethnic group which settled in the backcountry stretching  
from Pennsylvania to Georgia.  
ANSWER:  Scots-Irish  [or  Scotch-Irish ; prompt on partial answer]  
[10] This historian called the Scots-Irish \"borderers\" in his book tracing four groups of American  
settlers from the British Isles, titled  Albion's Seed.   
ANSWER: David Hackett  Fisher   
[10] Perhaps unsurprisingly, many Americans of Scots-Irish descent participated in this 1791  
protest against an excise tax on alcohol.  
ANSWER:  Whiskey Rebellion  [or  Whiskey Insurrection ]  
17. Answer these questions about the Flyte family, which owns the estate of Brideshead in  
Evelyn Waugh's novel  Brideshead Revisited,  for 10 points each.  
[10] This faith is deeply professed by Sebastian Flyte's mother Lady Marchmain and by his sister  
Julia, who cannot marry Rex Mottram through a sacrament of this faith because of Mottram's  
prior divorce. Waugh himself converted to this faith.  
ANSWER: Roman  Catholic ism [prompt on  Christian ity]  
[10] Lord Marchmain flees to this city on the continent after renouncing his Catholicism. In  
Shakespeare's plays, Michael Cassio becomes a lieutenant of this city, where the \"quality of  
mercy\" speech is delivered.  
ANSWER:  Venice  [or  Venezia ]  
[10] Sebastian Flyte introduces Charles to this foppish friend of his, who exaggerates his stutter  
and wears colorful robes to appear as a total aesthete. This character makes open harsh critiques  
of the Flyte family's \"charm.\"  
ANSWER:  Anthony  Blanche [or Anthony  Blanche ]  
18. This composer of  L'estro armonico  gained the nickname \"Red Priest\" after being ordained,  
and worked at a convent orphanage called the Ospedale della Pieta. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Italian Baroque composer who composed violin concertos for each time period of  
his  Four Seasons .  
ANSWER: Antonio  Vivaldi   
[10]  The Four Seasons  is part of this larger collection of twelve violin concertos, which also  
includes \"La tempesta di mare,\" or \"The Sea Storm.\"  
ANSWER:  The  Contest between Harmony and Invention  [or  Il  cimento dell'armonia e  
dell'inventione ]  
[10] Vivaldi's RV 589 is a setting of this hymn for chorus and small orchestra, starting with a  
jaunty D major rendering of the title phrase before the \"Et in terra pax\" section in B minor. It  
ends with the \"Cum sancto spiritu\" fugue.  
ANSWER: \" Gloria  in excelsis Deo\" 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 20 BONUSES  
19. One member of this chain of islands is a lifeless rock named Redonda whose second-to-last  
king \"Robert the Bald\" was succeeded by \"Michael the Grey\" in 2009. For 10 points each:  
[10] Redonda, which belongs to Antigua and Barbuda, is a member of the Leeward Islands,  
which makes up this island chain along with the Windward Islands.  
ANSWER:  Lesser Antilles  [prompt on Antilles]  
[10] The Lesser Antilles can be found in this sea. Europeans called islands in this sea the West  
Indies.  
ANSWER:  Caribbean  Sea  
[10] Sir Vivian Richards Stadium hosted matches for the 2007 Cricket World Cup in this capital  
of Antigua and Barbuda.  
ANSWER:  St. John’s   
20. Models generated by this technique are evaluated for quality based on the R-factor. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this technique often used to find the structure of proteins. Rosalind Franklin applied  
this technique to find the structure of DNA.  
ANSWER: x-ray  crystallography  [or x-ray  diffraction ]  
[10] One of the first proteins whose structure was solved by x-ray crystallography was the sperm  
whale version of this monomeric iron-binding protein.  
ANSWER:  myoglobin   
[10] A common substitution made when performing MAD phasing in X-ray crystallography is  
replacing atoms of this element with selenium. This element is found in the side chains of amino  
acids labelled C and M.  
ANSWER:  sulfur  [or  ]  S 
21. These agreements ensured that a specific ethnic group had no self-rule from 1795 until the  
end of World War I. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this set of three agreements opposed by Tadeusz Kosciuszko, which gradually  
destroyed a country whose traditional legislature was called the Sejm, spelled S-E-J-M.  
ANSWER: the three  partition s of  Poland -Lithuania  
[10] Name all three of the powers which partitioned Poland amongst themselves until they had  
absorbed all its land.  
ANSWER: Brandenburg- Prussia Austria ,  n empire, and  Russia n empire  
[10] This 1830 uprising broke out when military officers from the puppet-state of Congress  
Poland tried to set up a stronger national government. Nicholas I's Russia troops crushed it.  
ANSWER:  November  Uprising [or  Cadet  Revolution; or powstanie  listopadowe ] 
