NASAT 2013 
Round 1 
Tossups 
1. This quantity divides the product of Boltzmann's constant and a term for temperature on one side of the 
general form of the Eyring equation. The square of elementary charge times c times the magnetic constant, 
all divided by two times this quantity yields the fine structure constant. A reduced form of this quantity 
divides it by two pi and is named for Dirac. Dividing this quantity by linear momentum yields a particle's 
de Broglie wavelength, and the energy of a photon is equal to this constant times frequency. For 10 points, 
identify this constant which is equal to about 6.626 times 10 to the power of negative 34 Joule-seconds. 
ANSWER:  
Planck 
's constant [prompt on  ] 
h 
189-13-83-01101 
2. At the age of 73, Simon Bolivar Buckner ran as an unsuccessful third-party vice presidential challenger 
in this election, running on a ticket with another Civil War general, John M. Palmer. The losing vice 
presidential candidate in this election was a Swedenborgian named Arthur Sewall. This realigning election 
began the Fourth Party System. One campaign in this year printed handbills warning that a dollar would be 
worth fifty-three cents if the other side won. Mark Hanna managed the \"front porch campaign\" for the 
winning side of this election, in which the Democratic candidate proclaimed that he would not be crucified 
on a cross of gold. For 10 points, name this election which William McKinley won over William Jennings 
Bryan. 
ANSWER: Election of  
1896 
190-13-83-01102 
3. The 410 kilometer seismic discontinuity in the mantle results from this mineral's transformation to 
spinel. This mineral occurs as a solid solution of forsterite and fayalite. According to Goldich's stability 
series, this mineral and the calcium plagiocase anorthite are most easily weathered. 500 Celsius is the 
boundary temperature for a reversible reaction in which this mineral and water combine to yield serpentine. 
Ultramafic rocks like peridotite consist of pyroxene and this mineral. This mineral consists of silica 
tetrahedra linked by magnesium or iron cations. For 10 points, name this mineral at the top of the 
discontinuous branch of Bowen's reaction series. 
ANSWER:  
olivine 
066-13-83-01103 
4. A central character in this play first enters mocking the cheap flowers she has just seen. This play ends 
with another character exclaiming, “We are beautiful, joyous, drunk, and free!” The protagonists of this 
play discuss how the lower classes are filth incapable of love, and one of them is insulted for her affair with 
the milkman. One of the protagonists forged a letter that sent Monsieur to prison, and they take turns 
impersonating their employer in an unrealistically harsh manner. At this play’s conclusion, the poisoned 
tea prepared for Madame is taken from Solange by Claire. For 10 points, name this play about two female 
servants written by Jean Genet. 
ANSWER:  
The  Maids 
 [or  
Les  Bonnes 
] 
014-13-83-01104 
NASAT 2013     1     Page  1 of 11 
5. In the parable of the Faithful Servant, Jesus tells his disciples to be like servants awaiting the return of 
their master from one of these events. In Matthew, Jesus compares the Kingdom of Heaven to a king whose 
servants are killed when they invite men to one of these events, and a man is ejected from this event with 
“weeping and grinding of teeth” for not wearing the proper garments. In another parable, Jesus tells of five 
foolish virgins who were prevented from attending one of these events after leaving to get oil. At one of 
these events, Jesus tells his mother “my hour has not yet come” and performs his first miracle in the Gospel 
of John when he turns water into wine. For 10 points, name these events, one of which occurred at Cana. 
ANSWER:  
wedding 
s [or  
marriage 
s; or  
marriage feast 
s; or obvious equivalents; prompt on things like 
“feast” or “banquet” or “party”] 
121-13-83-01105 
6. A motif from the unrealized mural  
The Watering Place 
 was the source for one painting in this group, in 
which a nude boy holds imaginary reins on a white animal next to him. A woman with a straw hat sits next 
to a jug while five coworkers look on in another painting from this group. This group of paintings was 
inspired by the artist's new relationship with Fernande Olivier. Two bouquets rest on the subject's shoulders 
in the most expensive of them,  
Boy with a Pipe. 
 This group of paintings includes  
Boy Leading a Horse 
 and  
Family of Saltimbanques 
, one of many depictions of circus performers. For 10 points, name these Picasso 
paintings that used bright and happy colors, in contrast with those from his Blue Period. 
ANSWER: Picasso's  
Rose 
 Period paintings [accept Picasso's  
Circus 
 Period paintings before it is 
mentioned; prompt on  
Picasso painting 
s and similar answers] 
192-13-83-01106 
7. In this novel, a man who calls himself the \"good guy\" punishes a knife-wielding thief by forcing him to 
strip all his clothes off and leaving him to die in the wild. The protagonists of this novel are briefly joined 
by a sick old man named Ely who proclaims that there is no God, but all humans are his prophets. The 
protagonists of this novel own binoculars, a pistol with two bullets, a blanket, and some tools that they 
carry in a grocery cart. This novel follows an unnamed father and his son on a quest to reach the sea who 
pass through a hellscape destroyed by an unspecified disaster. For 10 points, name this post-apocalyptic 
novel by Cormac McCarthy. 
ANSWER:  
The  Road 
080-13-83-01107 
8. In one movie set in this city, a man becomes upset when he sees his son glance at a rich pompadoured 
boy during a meal and is stopped by an angry crowd from committing a crime outside a soccer stadium 
here. A reporter fails to get phone numbers from women sunbathing on roofs in this city while following a 
helicopter carrying a statue of Jesus. Giorgio and the priest Pellegrini are tortured and executed by Nazis in 
a Roberto Rossellini film, which calls it an “open city.” William Wyler directed a film where Princess Ann 
meets the reporter Joe Bradley while exploring this city incognito. For 10 points, name this setting for  
The 
Bicycle Thieves 
 and  
La Dolce Vita, 
 the site of a \"Holiday\" taken by Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn. 
ANSWER:  
Rome 
, Italy [or  
Roma 
, Italia] 
121-13-83-01108 
9. A leader in this conflict was Oenomaus, who was killed in early fighting. According to one account, a 
leader of one side forced captives to fight to the death in revenge for the death of Crixus. The eventual 
losing side in this conflict used ropes and ladders to rappel down cliffs to crush Gaius Claudius Glaber's 
army. This conflict was ended when insurgents, many of whom had been trained at Batiatus' school, were 
defeated at the Battle of the Siler River. Afterwards, participants were crucified along the Appian Way, and 
Crassus was furious that Pompey claimed credit for ending this conflict. For 10 points, name this 
unsuccessful slave rebellion against the Roman Republic led by a notorious ex-gladiator. 
ANSWER:  
Spartacus' revolt 
 [or  
Third Servile 
 War; accept  
Gladiator 
 War until \"gladiator\" is read] 
052-13-83-01109 
NASAT 2013     1     Page  2 of 11 
10. This island contains a cattle ranch named for John Palmer Parker. It contains the Hilina Slump, a chunk 
of land gradually sliding into the ocean, and the Great Crack, a fissure in the Kau district. This island 
celebrates the “Merrie Monarch Festival” and is home to a corporation that is one of the world’s top 
producers of macadamia nuts. It has a center named for deceased NASA astronaut Ellison Onizuka. A 
district on this island is the namesake of a specialty coffee and is called Kona. Its highest point is the 
dormant volcano Mauna Kea. For 10 points, name this island, also known as the \"Big Island.\" 
ANSWER:  
Hawaii 
 [or the  
Big Island 
 until it is read] 
052-13-83-01110 
11. These pieces should be used to guide or threaten passed pawns in the endgame according to Tarrasch's 
Rule. In the Lucena position, the only pieces on the board are kings, pawns, and this piece. Losing this 
piece and only winning a minor piece is called \"losing the exchange.\" The name of this piece derives from 
the Persian word for \"chariot.\" Though it is not the queen, it is possible to force checkmate with only this 
piece and a king. For 10 points, name these chess pieces that can move along their rank and file and that are 
shaped like castles. 
ANSWER:  
rooks 
 [or  
castles 
 until is is read] 
080-13-83-01111 
12. Along with Adnan Khashoggi, this person was acquitted of racketeering charges in a 1990 trial. In 
1972, Carlito Dimahilig tried to stab this person with a bolo knife in a possibly staged scene. This 
still-living politician claimed her family's riches came from the war loot of General Yamashita. This 
woman, a member of the Kilusang Bagong Lipunan party, finished ninth in the 1998 presidential election, 
but threw her support behind winner Joseph Estrada. Known as the \"Steel Butterfly,\" this woman fled the 
country after the People Power Revolution. She infamously owned over a thousand pairs of shoes. For 10 
points, name this former first lady of the Philippines, the wife of politician Ferdinand. 
ANSWER:  melda  
I Marcos 
 [or Imelda Remedios Visitacion  
Romualdez 
; prompt on  
Marcos 
] 
052-13-83-01112 
13. An extinct order in this phylum has a horn-shaped chamber with a wrinkled wall and was called rugosa. 
One of the largest invertebrates in the world, praya dubia, is within this phylum, which contains such 
complex colony organisms as siphonophores. Some of its classes include cubozoa, the relatively immobile 
anthozoa, and scyphozoa. One organism in this phylum causes Irukandji syndrome in humans and another 
similar one has killed over 60 people in Australia. Bodies of organisms in this phylum consist of mesoglea, 
and they also possess specialized explosive cells used for prey capture by releasing a toxin. For 10 points, 
name this phylum which includes organisms like sea anemones and jellyfish. 
ANSWER:  
Cnidaria 
 [or  
coelenterata 
] 
052-13-83-01113 
14. In one poem, this poet described how \"this air I gather and release\" was lived on by a man who \"fired 
France for Mary without spot.\" This poet claimed that \"after-comers cannot guess the beauty been\" in a 
poem about the felling of his \"aspens dear.\" This poet of \"Duns Scotus's Oxford\" and \"Binsey Poplars\" 
asked, \"Why do men then now not reck his rod?\" in a poem whose subject \"will flame out, like shining 
from shook foil.\" Another of his poems describes \"fresh-firecoal chestnut-falls\" and \"rose-moles all in 
stipple upon trout that swim\" and begins, \"Glory be to God for dappled things.\" For 10 points, name this 
British poet, a proponent of sprung rhythm who wrote \"Pied Beauty\" and \"God's Grandeur.\" 
ANSWER: Gerard Manley  
Hopkins 
192-13-83-01114 
NASAT 2013     1     Page  3 of 11 
15. The person targeted in this event was traveling along the Catherine Canal when it occurred. The 
perpetrators of this action became known as \"those of the first of March.\" A failed attempt to do this same 
action was commemorated with a planned gate design by Viktor Hartmann. The Church of the Savior on 
Blood was built where this event took place. The initial attack in this event failed partially due to a 
bulletproof vehicle supplied by Napoleon III. It required a bomb thrown by Ignaty Grinevitsky. This event 
prevented a ruler from releasing his plan to create a Duma. For 10 points, name this 1881 event carried out 
by a group called the People's Will, in which the Russian monarch who emancipated the serfs died. 
ANSWER:  
assassination of Alexander II 
 [accept synonyms for \"assassination\" such as  
killing 
; prompt on 
Alexander 
] 
052-13-83-01115 
16. In one scene in this novel, a character accuses a man of stealing scissors and a knife-grinder as part of 
“a wild rush of need to destroy everything between them.” Earlier in this novel, a woman is criticized for 
placing grass bundles in front of her house. Another character drowns newborn kittens in a bucket of water 
and remembers seeing a photograph of Lydia carrying school books on her head. The protagonists in this 
novel drive a yellow truck called a “bakkie,” and it ends with a woman running towards a mysterious 
helicopter. It begins with Maureen and Bamford having fled Johannesburg to reach a native village. For 10 
points, name this novel by Nadine Gordimer whose title character is the black servant of the Smales family. 
ANSWER:  
July’s People 
052-13-83-01116 
17. On his way to accomplish this task, a man was captured and almost sacrificed by the Egyptian King 
Busiris. The man who accomplished it, who was not Menelaus, obtained information by capturing the Old 
Man of the Sea. On his way to do this, that man ran into a son of Poseidon who was amazingly strong if he 
remained in contact with the ground. This task was assigned after Eurystheus claimed slaying the Hydra 
and cleaning the Augean stables did not count. It may have involved the slaying of the dragon Ladon, but it 
also involved one man offering to hold up the heavens for a bit to convince Atlas to help him. For 10 
points, name this eleventh of Heracles’ labors, which involved him stealing immortality-granting fruit. 
ANSWER: stealing the  
golden apples 
 of the Hesperides 
052-13-83-01117 
18. This character leaves a DJ’s fur-decorated apartment after her friend’s breasts slip out of her dress 
while she hangs by her teeth from his ear. After returning home, she is horrified to see her neighbor Dodo 
Conway pregnant with a seventh child. This character is taken to the emergency room for the immense 
bleeding she experiences after her first sexual experience with the Harvard professor, Irwin. She takes on 
the name \"Elly Higginbottom\" while going out with her sexy friend Doreen, with whom she works at  
Ladies' Day. 
 While interning at a magazine over the summer, she suffers a breakdown and undergoes 
electroshock therapy. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Sylvia Plath's  
The Bell Jar. 
ANSWER: Esther  
Greenwood 
 [or  
Esther 
 Greenwood] 
080-13-83-01118 
19. For a ring, this value is the number of times you have to add the multiplicative identity to get the 
additive identity. It's not \"minimal,\" but this adjective describes an object that is the product of all invariant 
factors of a Jordan normal form. This term also denotes a type of curve along which a partial differential 
equation becomes an ordinary differential equation and is solvable. The Cayley-Hamilton theorem concerns 
solutions to a polynomial described by this adjective, which has zeroes at the eigenvalues of an associated 
matrix. This word also denotes a quantity computed by the formula vertices minus edges plus faces. For 10 
points, give this mathematical term that denotes a quantity that is two for any convex polyhedron and is 
named for Euler. 
ANSWER:  
characteristic 
 [or  
characteristic 
 polynomial; or Euler  
characteristic 
; or  
characteristic 
 curve] 
080-13-83-01119 
NASAT 2013     1     Page  4 of 11 
20. This composer memorably used false relation in the final cadence of the piece \"O Nata lux.\" One of this 
composer's works culminates with forty people singing \"respice humilitatem nostram.\" This composer of 
two sets of  
Lamentations 
 set eight psalms and the  
Veni Creator 
 in one his collections, in which he used the 
Phrygian mode for the piece \"Why Fum'th in Fight.\" This man and his student William Byrd were given a 
21-year monopoly on the production of polyphonic music. He wrote a motet for eight different choirs for 
Queen Elizabeth I's fortieth birthday. For 10 points, name this Renaissance English composer of  
Spem in 
alium 
, who wrote a theme on which Ralph Vaughan Williams composed a fantasia. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Tallis 
190-13-83-01120 
21. One procedure used to treat this condition has been the subject of hundreds of publications by Harold 
Sackeim; that procedure was developed by Cerletti and Bini. Imipramine, which goes by the trade name 
Tofranil, is part of the tricyclic class of compounds used to treat this condition. Paroxetine and fluoxetine 
are compounds which are used to treat this condition, and selegiline is an example of a monoamine oxidase 
inhibitor used to treat this condition. Dysthymia is a milder long-term form of this condition. For 10 points, 
identify this condition which is sometimes treated using electroconvulsive therapy or selective serotonin 
reuptake inhibitors such as Prozac. 
ANSWER: clinical  
depression 
 [or  
major depressive disorder 
] 
189-13-83-01121 
22. This man names a principle giving the symmetry groups of a crystal under an external influence, his 
\"dissymmetry principle.\" A constant named for this physicist equals permeability squared times N times the 
g-factor squared times J times quantity J plus one, all over quantity three times Boltzmann's constant, 
where J is the total angular momentum quantum number. That constant appears in an empirical law named 
for him which sets magnetization proportional to magnetic field over temperature and in a formula giving 
the susceptibility at a given temperature; the latter is a law he names with Weiss. He and his older brother 
Jacques discovered piezoelectricity. The temperature above which ferromagnetism no longer exists is 
named for him. For 10 points, name this man who won a Nobel with his wife Marie. 
ANSWER:  ierre  
P Curie 
 [prompt on \"Curie\"] 
190-13-83-01122 
23. This politician's Environment Minister revealed that this man wore a hearing aid to cover up his slight 
deafness. He said the only food worse than British food is Finnish when complaining about the Olympics, 
and he described British policies as part of \"Anglo-Saxon ultraliberalism.\" This man's chosen Prime 
Minister was accused of investigating his rivals in the Clearstream Affair. He served as Prime Minister 
from 1986 to 1988 during the \"cohabitation\" period with Francois Mitterrand. This man won his second 
term as president by defeating far right politician Jean-Marie Le Pen. For 10 points, name this President of 
France from 1995 to 2007 who was succeeded by Nicolas Sarkozy. 
ANSWER: Jacques Rene  
Chirac 
052-13-83-01123 
NASAT 2013     1     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2013 
Round 1 
Bonuses 
1. Artemisia ran into one of her allies during this battle as she escaped from it, but Xerxes mistook it for a 
brave attack on the Greeks. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this 480 BCE naval battle that was a decisive Greek victory. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Salamis 
[10] This Athenian rival of Themistocles known as \"the Just\" captured the island of Psyttaleia during the 
Battle of Salamis. Earlier, this man had vigorously opposed Themistocles' fleet-building policies. 
ANSWER:  
Aristides 
[10] Themistocles interpreted the Delphic oracle's prophecy that only this kind of structure would save 
Athens into an argument for his fleet building. 
ANSWER:  
wooden wall 
s [or  
wall of wood 
] 
126-13-83-01201  
2. This character is last seen complaining that he has “lost a whole day over these people.” For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Identify this character who is first seen complaining about the lack of good French comedies and 
mocking  
Mixing It Up 
 before he is confronted by a father, mother, step-daughter, son, and child. 
ANSWER: the  
director 
 in  
Six Characters in Search of an Author 
 [or the stage  
manager 
] 
[10] The director appears in this absurdist Italian author’s play  
Six Characters in Search of an Author. 
ANSWER: Luigi  
Pirandello 
[10] This other Pirandello character starts a new life after erroneously being declared dead. He eventually 
abandons that identity by faking his death, only to be unable to return to his old life. 
ANSWER:  
Mattia 
 Pascal [or Mattia  
Pascal 
] 
052-13-83-01202  
3. This institution is first outlined in the  
Kitab-i-Aqbas. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this governing institution that was established after the Ten Year Crusade. Its seat is found in 
Haifa, Israel. 
ANSWER:  
Universal House of Justice 
[10] The Universal House of Justice decides doctrines within this faith, founded by Baha'u'llah. 
ANSWER:  
Baha'i 
[10] The Ten Year Crusade was launched by this man, who led Baha'i between 1921 and 1957. He was 
given the title \"Guardian\" and translated many foundational Baha'i texts into English. 
ANSWER:  
Shoghi Effendi 
 Rabbani [prompt on partial answer] 
192-13-83-01203  
NASAT 2013     1     Page  6 of 11 
4. This character is the landlord of tenant farmer Phil Hogan in the play  
A Moon for the Misbegotten 
. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this character, an alcoholic actor like his father. His mother Mary is addicted to morphine, and 
his brother Edmund has tuberculosis. 
ANSWER:  
Jamie 
 Tyrone [or  
James 
 Tyrone Jr.; prompt on  
Tyrone 
; do not accept “James Tyrone Sr.”] 
[10] Jamie Tyrone appears in the play  
Long Day’s Journey into Night 
, written by this author of  
The Iceman 
Cometh 
. 
ANSWER: Eugene  
O’Neill 
[10] O’Neill occasionally used uncommon theatrical effects in his plays. Characters wear masks in  
The 
Great God Brown 
, while  
Strange Interlude 
 frequently features characters engaging in this action. 
ANSWER:  
talking to the audience 
 [or  
breaking the fourth wall 
; prompt on  
soliloquy 
] 
052-13-83-01204  
5. This paper was rejected by four publications, including the  
American Economic Review. 
 For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this 1970 paper by George Akerlof which discusses information asymmetry in which the seller 
knows more about a product than the buyer. Its title references a defective car. 
ANSWER: “The  
Market for Lemons 
: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism” 
[10] The paper suggests that markets in which there is asymmetric information show characteristics similar 
to those described by Gresham’s Law. In its basic form, that law says bad types of this item drive out good 
forms. 
ANSWER:  
money 
 [accept synonyms] 
[10] Years before Gresham was born, this man wrote a 1526 paper on the request of Sigismund I. This 
man's paper “On the Minting of Coin” described the principle of “bad money driving out good.” 
ANSWER: Nicolaus  
Copernicus 
052-13-83-01205  
6. Answer the following about the so-called \"Great Compromise of 1787,\" for 10 points each. 
[10] The compromise reacted to Edmund Randolph's plan in which the legislature memberships would be 
allocated to each state based on their population size. Randolph hailed from this state, also the home of 
Thomas Jefferson. 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Virginia 
[10] The compromise of a bicameral legislature with different allocations of membership was proposed by 
Oliver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman, both of whom were from this state. 
ANSWER:  
Connecticut 
[10] Sherman later proposed the Three Fifths Compromise regarding slaves in conjunction with this man, a 
Scottish-born Pennsylvanian politician who also served as one of the first Supreme Court justices. 
ANSWER: James  
Wilson 
052-13-83-01206  
NASAT 2013     1     Page  7 of 11 
7. Name some dangers involved in working in a chemical lab, for 10 points each: 
[10] When using chemicals that can evolve dangerous gases, its common to perform any work in one of 
these units, which contains a negative-pressure ventilator and a moveable glass sash. 
ANSWER: fume  
hood 
[10] Extra care should be taken when working with certain functional groups, such as this one, which is 
symbolized NO2 and is found in explosives such as TNT. 
ANSWER:  
nitro 
[10] When boiling a liquid, a boiling stick may sometimes be used to prevent this event, in which a large 
gas bubble forms and pushes liquid out of the container. 
ANSWER:  
bumping 
140-13-83-01207  
8. This city was about 40 miles from the Flossenbuerg concentration camp. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German city home to a series of postwar trials of Nazi war criminals, including proceedings 
that sentenced Hermann Goering and Joachim von Ribbentrop to death. 
ANSWER:  
Nuremberg 
 [or  
Nuernberg 
] 
[10] This Minister of Armaments and architect used a brilliant defense strategy to only wrangle a 20 year 
sentence. He later wrote the book  
Inside the Third Reich 
. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Speer 
 [or Berthold Konrad Hermann Albert  
Speer 
] 
[10] This man was executed at Nuremberg and had previously served as the Commissioner of the occupied 
Netherlands during the war. He also served as chancellor of Austria during the Anschluss. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Seyss-Inquart 
052-13-83-01208  
9. One character in this novel is a café owner named Tarzan. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel about Said Mahran, the title criminal recently released from jail in Cairo. While 
seeking vengeance on his betrayers, he meets Rauf Ilwan, a former revolutionary leader who has 
abandoned his principles. 
ANSWER:  
The  Thief and the Dogs 
 [or  
El- Lis wa el-Kilab 
] 
[10]  
The Thief and the Dogs 
 is a novel by this Egyptian author of the  
Cairo Trilogy 
. 
ANSWER: Naguib  
Mahfouz 
[10] This Mahfouz novel takes place at the title boarding house. Various characters represent Egyptian 
political philosophies and most are entranced with the servant girl Zohra. 
ANSWER:  
Miramar 
052-13-83-01209  
10. Answer the following on Venetian painting, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Venetian painter created the  
Pesaro Madonna 
 for the Frari Basilica. He painted a small dog on a 
bed with a reclining nude in his  
Venus of Urbino 
. 
ANSWER:  
Titian 
 [or Tiziano  
Vecelli 
o] 
[10] Titian finished the  
Feast of the Gods 
 created by his teacher Giovanni, who belonged to this Venetian 
artistic family. Its patriarch Jacopo studied with Gentile da Fabriano. 
ANSWER:  
Bellini 
[10] Venetian artist Lorenzo Lotto names a type of these artistic items of non-European origin that he was 
fond of depicting. Hans Holbein the Younger used ones with lozenge and octagonal designs in many of his 
portraits. 
ANSWER: Oriental  
rug 
s [or an Oriental  
carpet 
] 
189-13-83-01210  
NASAT 2013     1     Page  8 of 11 
11. Medical terms related to this organ often begin with the prefix “pulmo-.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this organ which in mammals contains alveoli where the exchange of carbon dioxide and 
oxygen takes place. 
ANSWER: the  
lung 
[10] One lung disease, chronic bronchitis, is characterized by an increased number and size of this type of 
epithelial cells which secrete mucin. 
ANSWER:  
goblet 
 cells 
[10] This specific term for breathlessness or air hunger is frequently used in discussing lung diseases, such 
as asthma. It is measured in five grades on the mMRC Breathlessness Scale. 
ANSWER:  
dyspnea 
052-13-83-01211  
12. This goddess got into an argument with her brother Susanoo, which eventually led to him throwing a 
flayed horse at her and causing her to hide in a cave. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name the Shinto goddess of the sun, who eventually emerged from the cave after Uzume danced and 
stripped on top of a bathtub. 
ANSWER:  
Amaterasu 
-omikami [or  
Ohirume-no-muchi 
-no-kami; or  
Heaven-Shining-Great-August 
Deity] 
[10] In a more heroic moment, Susano'o killed this eight-headed monster, which he defeated by getting it 
drunk on sake and decapitating each head using the sword Kusanagi. 
ANSWER: Yamata-no- 
Orochi 
[10] This kami was the only one to not swear loyalty to Amaterasu’s grandson Ninigi when Ninigi 
descended from heaven, but later changed his mind when visited by Uzume, whom he later marries. 
ANSWER:  
Sarutahiko 
 Okami 
140-13-83-01212  
13. This body of water lies below the Arafura Sea. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this gulf which lies between the Cape York Peninsula and Arnhem Land, the latter of which is 
part of the Northern Territory. 
ANSWER: Gulf of  
Carpentaria 
[10] The Gulf of Carpentaria juts into this country, whose states include New South Wales and Victoria. 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Australia 
[10] East of the Gulf of Carpentaria is Queensland, whose capital is this city. This city's namesake river 
flows into Moreton Bay. 
ANSWER:  
Brisbane 
192-13-83-01213  
14. This character and his love burst into tears after a recitation of “Ossian.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who falls in love with Albert's fiancée Lotte while living in Wahlheim. 
ANSWER: Young  
Werther 
[10]  
The Sorrows of Young Werther 
 is an epistolary novel written by this German polymath and friend of 
Friedrich Schiller. 
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von  
Goethe 
[10] This poem, one of Goethe's most famous, was written in his old age upon his separation from Ulrike 
von Levetzow. In it, Goethe commands his companions to abandon him by the rocks and begins by asking, 
\"What should I hope now from the reunion, from this day's still-closed blossom?\" 
ANSWER: the \" 
Marienbad Elegy 
\" [or die \" 
Marienbader Elegie 
\"; or \" 
Elegie 
\"] 
052-13-83-01214  
NASAT 2013     1     Page  9 of 11 
15. During this event, Nino Bixio put down a series of revolts. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1860 event in which a volunteer corps landed in Sicily in order to defeat Bourbon forces. It 
brought Naples and Sicily into the Kingdom of Sardinia and was a major event in the Italian Risorgimento. 
ANSWER:  
Expedition of the Thousand 
 [or  
Spedizione dei Mille 
] 
[10] The Expedition of the Thousand was led by this \"Hero of Two Worlds.\" His volunteer force was 
known as the Red Shirts and he previously had fought in the Uruguayan Civil War. 
ANSWER: Giuseppe  
Garibaldi 
[10] This October 1860 battle, fought near the namesake river, was the largest fought in the expedition. 
While not a decisive victory for Garibaldi, it forced Sicilian king Francis II to flee, and later that month, 
Sardinia annexed the Two Sicilies. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Volturnus 
 [or Battle of the  
Volturno 
 River] 
052-13-83-01215  
16. An urban legend states that this structure has 666 panes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this glass and metal I.M. Pei-designed structure within the Cour Napoleon, criticized by some 
for its stark contrast with the art museum which it serves as the entrance to. 
ANSWER:  
Louvre Pyramid 
 [accept descriptive answers like the glass  
pyramid in front of the Louvre 
] 
[10] In the 1960s, I.M. Pei drew up plans to redesign the business districts of this American city. This city's 
residents argued against the project, criticizing its destruction of the Criterion Theater, among other historic 
places. 
ANSWER:  
Oklahoma City 
, Oklahoma 
[10] Henry N. Cobb, a member of I.M. Pei's firm, designed this tallest skyscraper in Boston, whose 
premises notoriously have to be vacated during strong winds, lest passersby be crushed to death by falling 
windowpanes. 
ANSWER: The John  
Hancock 
 Tower [or  
Hancock 
 Place; or The  
Hancock 
; bemusedly accept  
Plywood 
Palace 
 and  
Plywood Ranch 
] 
192-13-83-01216  
17. The Dharasana Satyagraha occurred in the wake of this event, which ended at a beach in Dandi. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this campaign occurring during the governorship of Lord Irwin that was directed against a 
British tax on a certain commodity. It began near Ahmadabad and resulted in the arrest of 60,000 Indians. 
ANSWER:  
Salt March 
 [or  
Salt Satyagraha 
; prompt on  
Dandi March 
] 
[10] Gandhi highly opposed untouchability, an issue also campaigned against by this Buddhist leader born 
into an untouchable caste. This father of the Scheduled Castes Federation was hailed by Amartya Sen as his 
\"father\" in economics. 
ANSWER: Bhimrao Ramji  
Ambedkar 
[10] The Mahatma long struggled with maintaining this condition for himself, an issue dealt with in a 2011 
Jad Adams biography. One of the principal tenets of \"brahmacharya,\" this condition was tested late in 
Gandhi's life by his grandniece Manubehn. 
ANSWER:  
celibacy 
 [or  
chastity 
; or anything that implies  
not having sex 
] 
192-13-83-01217  
NASAT 2013     1     Page  10 of 11 
18. This character served in the Second Anglo-Afghan War and was wounded at the Battle of Maiwand. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this former British Army surgeon who becomes engaged to governess Mary Morstan in  
The 
Sign of the Four 
. He discovers his old friend is still alive in “The Adventure of the Empty House.” 
ANSWER: Dr.  
Watson 
 [or  
John 
 Watson] 
[10] Doctor Watson is the companion of this sleuth who investigates cases like  
The Hound of the 
Baskervilles 
. 
ANSWER: Sherlock  
Holmes 
 [or  
Sherlock 
 Holmes] 
[10] In “The Adventure of the Empty House,” Holmes confronts this villain, the so-called “second most 
dangerous man in England,” a former lieutenant of Professor Moriarty. 
ANSWER: Colonel Sebastian  
Moran 
 [or  
Sebastian 
 Moran] 
052-13-83-01218  
19. It’s time to look at musical death, for 10 points each. 
[10] Which composer of the Jupiter Symphony and  
The Magic Flute 
 died at age 35, although there is little 
evidence to suggest he was poisoned by Antonio Salieri? 
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
[10] An oft-repeated story suggests Mozart dictated passages of his famous  
Requiem 
 to this pupil of his, 
who completed it. This man would die himself at a young age due to tuberculosis. 
ANSWER: Franz Xaver  
Sussmayr 
[10] This upstart French composer wrote an oft-performed \"Poeme\" and died a very painful death when he 
collided with a brick wall while biking downhill. 
ANSWER: Amedee Ernest  
Chausson 
052-13-83-01219  
20. Like a similar operation, the result of this operation can be proven to vanish at inputs of infinity using 
the Riemann-Lebesgue lemma. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this operation which gives the power spectral density when applied to the autocorrelation. 
ANSWER:  
Fourier transform 
[10] The Fourier transform can be used to solve this hyperbolic PDE. This differential equation sets the 
second partial derivative of u with respect to time equal to a constant times the Laplacian of u. 
ANSWER:  
wave 
 equation 
[10] A Fourier transform on this type of function is used to find the coefficients for its Fourier series. This 
kind of function can be decomposed into sines and cosines because, like those functions, it regularly 
repeats the same set of outputs. 
ANSWER:  
periodic 
 function 
080-13-83-01220  
21. For an incompressible fluid, this quantity is distributed equally in all directions. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this quantity which is calculated as force over area. 
ANSWER:  
pressure 
 [prompt on  ] 
P 
[10] With Ludwig Hagen, this scientist names an equation from fluid dynamics which sets the change in 
pressure proportional to length of pipe and volumetric flow rate, and inversely proportional to the fourth 
power of the radius of the pipe. 
ANSWER: Jean Louis Marie  
Poiseuille 
[10] This kind of pressure, which causes drag force, is pressure exerted on a body moving through a fluid 
medium. It is calculated as density times the square of velocity and strips galaxies of interstellar gas. 
ANSWER:  
ram 
 pressure 
189-13-83-01221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     1     Page  11 of 11 
