National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 2 
Tossups 
1. This body has a dark region called Shangri-la, which is near a bright region called Xanadu. Its north pole 
is home to the Ligeia Mare. This body is in a four-to-three orbital resonance with Hyperion. Its Ganesa 
Macula is a strong candidate cryovolcano. It has an atmosphere that appears to contain tholins and other 
complex organic molecules. This moon has its own weather systems and is covered in an orange smog. It 
was discovered by Huygens, who co-names the Cassini-Huygens probe that discovered evidence of 
hydrocarbon lakes on it. For 10 points, name this largest moon of Saturn. 
ANSWER:  
Titan 
001-09-12-02102 
2. The protagonist of this novel writes a will ordering that no flowers be planted on his grave and no man 
remember him. At one point in this novel, the protagonist is shamed by a \"skimmity-ride\" that parades 
effigies of him and his onetime lover Lucetta. While serving as a judge, the protagonist's past deeds are 
exposed by the furmity woman. Its title character hires a Scotsman who is able to salvage bad wheat, but 
fires him out of jealousy for holding a successful dance under a tent during a rainstorm. This novel's title 
character becomes the rival of Donald Farfrae, and sells Newson his wife Susan and his daughter 
Elizabeth-Jane for five guineas. For 10 points, name this novel about the downfall of Michael Henchard, 
written by Thomas Hardy. 
ANSWER:  
The  Mayor of Casterbridge 
030-09-12-02103 
3. James Sayers’s cartoon depicting  
The Repeal of 
 this act prominently features Theophilus Lindsey, 
Richard Price, and Joseph Priestley among the mob mischief-makers. Robert Walpole attempted to 
circumvent one part of this act by passing a yearly Act of Indemnity. John Dryden’s “The Hind and the 
Panther” was thinly veiled support of James II’s attempt to repeal this act. The Quebec Act replaced its 
most controversial provision with an oath of loyalty. It was amended by the Act of Toleration and finally 
repealed, along with the Corporation Act, in 1828, thus allowing Catholics to hold seats in Parliament. For 
10 points, name this act that required the holders of all offices in the British government to be Anglican. 
ANSWER:  
Test 
 Act 
003-09-12-02104 
4. Many actors audition by reciting a monologue written by this author which begins \"I always worry that 
maybe people aren't going to like me, when I go to a party.\" That monologue is spoken by the suicidal 
Jewish cadet Sammy in this author's play about the family of Reuben Flood. In another of this author's 
plays, Dr. Lyman reads the balcony scene from  
Romeo and Juliet 
 with the waitress Elma, Grace slips 
upstairs to sleep with Carl, and Cherie is pursued by the cowboy Bo Decker. This author set many of his 
plays in small Midwest towns, such as a play in which Madge Owens falls in love with Hal Carter. For 10 
points, name this American playwright of  
The Dark at the Top of the Stairs Bus Stop 
,  , and  
Picnic 
. 
ANSWER: William  
Inge 
004-09-12-02105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  1 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. In 1979, this nation saw violent demonstrations after it attempted to raise the price of rice. Those riots 
led to the downfall of this country's Tolbert administration in a coup orchestrated by a man who would later 
be tortured to death on television, Samuel Doe. One military figure in this nation was Joshua Blahyri, better 
known as General “Buck Naked,” who believed he was invulnerable to bullets. This country’s regime 
attempted to assassinate Kimmie Weeks, who exposed the usage of child soldiers during its devastating 
civil war. This country has recently issued war crimes indictments against former president Charles Taylor. 
For 10 points, name this African nation with capital at Monrovia that was founded by freed American 
slaves. 
ANSWER:  
Liberia 
052-09-12-02106 
6. In the 2004 primaries for this position, the former CEO of Godfather's Pizza, Herman Cain, was the 
second-place Republican candidate, and the Democrats nominated a Congresswoman who had previously 
unseated an incumbent in a House primary, Denise Majette. In 2008, this position was subject to a runoff 
because third-party candidate Allen Buckley prevented anyone from winning a majority on Election Day, 
and Jim Martin lost to the Republican incumbent in the second round. Both holders of this office were 
Democrats as of Election Day 2000, but Max Cleland and Zell Miller have both since been replaced by 
Republicans. For 10 points, identify this political office, now held by Johnny Isakson and Saxby 
Chambliss. 
ANSWER: United States  
Senator 
 from  
Georgia 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
019-09-12-02107 
7. Quantum dots have the unusual property that changing their size alters this property, which is why their 
emitted wavelength is tunable. The increase of one in size with temperature change T is given by T squared 
times a constant alpha divided by T plus a constant beta according to Varshni's theorem. Chemically 
distorting a one-dimensional crystal can create additional ones in the Peierels distortion. This structure is 
the solid-state equivalent of the space between the LUMO and the HOMO. Materials that have an indirect 
one must emit a phonon during recombination, in which an electron moves from the top of it to the bottom. 
The Fermi level exists in the middle of it in doped materials. For 10 points, name this region which is 
prominent in insulators - a region forbidden to electrons, lying between the valence and conduction bands, 
the size of which determines many characteristics of semiconductors. 
ANSWER: the  
band gap 
 region 
048-09-12-02108 
8. Te-shan burned twenty years of commentary on this work after failing to understand its passages on the 
inability to attain the past, future, or present mind. According to legend, Hui-neng achieved enlightenment 
after hearing a monk chant this work's line “Let your mind function freely, without abiding anywhere or in 
anything.” It begins with a dialog between the Buddha and Subhuti in Shravasti. This crown jewel of the 
\"Perfection of Wisdom\" genre is, along with the Heart Sutra, one of the two main texts in Zen Buddhism. 
For 10 points, name this major text of Mahayana Buddhism, named for a jewel that “cuts through illusion.” 
ANSWER:  
Diamond 
 Sutra [or Vajracchedika  
Prajnaparamitra 
 Sutra] 
003-09-12-02109 
9. During the catalytic cycle of ribonucleotide reductase, cysteine-439 forms one of these, which is then 
transferred to the substrate and to a tyrosine residue. Potassium nitrosodisulfonate is a persistent example of 
one. N-bromosuccinimide is used in substitutions that have one of these as an intermediate, while a 
technique used to image them commonly uses TEMPO to trap them. Besides EPR, they are commonly 
created by hemolytic bond cleavage in species like peroxides. Reactive oxygen species are a subset of, for 
10 points, these chemical species that contain an unpaired electron. 
ANSWER: free  
radical 
s 
064-09-12-02110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  2 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. One of this author's short stories begins with an eccentric councillor building a house by first erecting 
the walls and then ordering workmen to smash out the door and windows. In that story by this author, the 
narrator learns that Krespel's daughter Antonia has a defect in her chest causing her to die from her 
beautiful singing. In another short story by this author, a student cries \"circle of fire! Spin around\" and 
attempts to kill his fiancee Clara after looking at her through glasses bought from the sinister Coppelius. 
Freud's essay \"The Uncanny\" analyzes this author's story about Nathaniel, who falls in love with Professor 
Spalanzani's daughter Olympia, but discovers that she is a mechanical doll. For 10 points, name this 
German author of Gothic short stories such as \"The Sandman,\" which inspired Jacques Offenbach to write 
an opera about his \"tales.\" 
ANSWER: Ernst Theodor Amadeus  
Hoffman 
004-09-12-02111 
11. July 5, 1934, was known as \"Bloody Thursday\" in this city. The Blythe-Zellerbach Committee oversaw 
part of the renewal of this city in the 1950s, which also included the repossession of its port and the 
destruction of Manilatown. Lamar Hunt attempted to place a giant spacecraft on one of this city’s 
landmarks after it was taken over by AIM in 1969. That landmark was a prison from which no one 
successfully escaped until its close in 1963. In 1978, a politician from this city was assassinated by Dan 
White, who was only convicted of manslaughter after he used the \"Twinkie Defense.\" For 10 points, name 
this California city that elected Harvey Milk and endured large earthquakes in 1906 and 1989. 
ANSWER:  
San Francisco 
003-09-12-02112 
12. This author's extensive correspondence with Victoria Ocampo has been published as  
This America of 
Ours 
. This author described \"two suffering little gems\" \"bruised all over by pebbles\" in a poem about \"a 
child's tiny feet.\" The narrator of another poem by this author \"leave[s] singing my lovely revenge\" after 
\"lower[ing] your body to the sunny, poor earth\" \"from the icy niche where men placed you.\" This poet 
wrote \"To him we cannot answer ‘Tomorrow,’ his name is today” in a poem influenced by her time as an 
educator, which caused her to be known as \"the mother of the nation\" in her home country. This poet's grief 
for the suicide of railway worker Romelio Ureta influenced the title of her collection  
Desolation 
. For 10 
points, name this poet of the  
Sonnets of Death 
, a female poet from Chile. 
ANSWER: Gabriela  
Mistral 
 [or Lucila de María del Perpetuo Socorro Godoy  
Alcayaga 
] 
020-09-12-02113 
13. This artist depicted two girls embracing a knight who is handing gold to a kidnapper in his painting  
The 
Ransom 
. Charles Dickens wrote that the title figure of one of this man's works was \"a hideous, wry-necked, 
blubbering, red-haired boy in a night gown.\" A rainbow appears in the background of a work by this man in 
which the title musician holds her sister. This painter of  
The Blind Girl 
 and  
Christ in the House of His 
Parents 
 made Elizabeth Siddal submerge herself in a freezing bath to pose as the title character of another 
of his paintings, in which the title figure is shown holding poppies, daisies, and pansies after drowning 
herself. For 10 points, name this English painter of  
Ophelia 
, a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. 
ANSWER: John Everett  
Millais 
030-09-12-02114 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  3 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. One objection to this idea argues that its logic leads to the existence of a \"Lost Island.\" A modal version 
of this idea argues that its conclusion cannot be proven, but that it is rational to accept its conclusion. 
According to Kant, this idea falsely assumes that existence is a predicate. Gaunilo rejected this idea, whose 
modal version was formulated by Alvin Plantinga. Descartes'  
Fifth Meditation 
 puts forth a version of it 
based on the principle that necessary existence is one of the perfections of a conceivable all-perfect being. 
This argument is commonly phrased as \"a being than which nothing greater can be conceived\" must exist. 
For 10 points, name this argument for the existence of God developed by St. Anselm. 
ANSWER: the  
ontological 
 argument [or clear knowledge equivalents] 
004-09-12-02115 
15. The founder of this field put forth a theory of ten relationships within it, which involve the \"rheme,\" 
\"dicent,\" and \"delome,\" as well as a threefold classification of objects with resembling relationships, 
associating relationships, and conventional relationships. Julia Kristeva proposed that this field of study 
corresponds to the \"maternal body\" and is exemplified by rhythm and tone as opposed to the grammar and 
syntax of symbolic language. Charles Sanders Pierce attempted to distinguish this field from dynamic 
action and died while working on a book about logic \"considered as\" this. Ferdinand de Saussure identified 
the components of the items studied in this field as the signifier and the signified. For 10 points, Umberto 
Eco wrote \"a theory of\" what field, which studies linguistic and pictoral signs? 
ANSWER:  
semiotic 
s [or  
semiology 
] 
019-09-12-02116 
16. The earliest phase of this conflict saw one army use flintlock muskets to ensure a victory at Mollwitz, 
and naval engagements during it included the Battle of Toulon. The First Carnatic War and King George's 
War were extensions of this conflict. George II led troops to confront an army marching from 
Aschaffenburg in the Battle of Dettingen, which took place shortly before the Peace of Abo. It was 
concluded in 1748 with the Treaty of Aix-la-Chappelle, and this war was initiated by the results of the 
Pragmatic Sanction. For 10 points, name this conflict that resulted from Maria Theresa's inheritance of the 
throne of a certain polity. 
ANSWER: War of the  
Austrian Succession 
032-09-12-02117 
17. In one myth system, these animals were treated well for one year and eaten, causing them to be 
transported to the realm of Kim-un Kamui. After becoming a human by praying for 100 days, one of them 
mated with Hwanung to birth the first Korean emperor. Another encouraged Hanuman to fly across the 
ocean to find Sita in the  
Ramayana 
. In addition to Jambavantha and the one whose sinews were used to 
make Gleipnir, one was placed on an altar during a feast held by Lycaon before trying to kill his mother, a 
nymph of Artemis who became one after being seduced by Zeus. For 10 points, name this animal 
represented by Callisto, who was made into Ursa Major. 
ANSWER:  
bear 
s 
059-09-12-02118 
18. This country's popular folklore figures include Lazy John, who lays underneath the branches of a guava 
tree with his mouth open and waits for the fruit to fall into his mouth. Remy Presas founded this country's 
national martial art, which uses a twenty-eight inch rattan stick, and is called Modern Arnis. This country's 
folk dances include Cariñosa and Tinikling, and a popular dessert in this country is halo-halo. This country 
is symbolized by Juan de la Cruz, who wears a wide-brimmed sakalot and a barong, which was introduced 
by its president Ramon Magsaysay. For 10 points, name this country whose natives speak Tagalog on the 
islands of Visayas, Mindanao, and Luzon. 
ANSWER: the Republic of the  
Philippines 
 [or Republika ng  
Pilipinas 
] 
004-09-12-02119 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  4 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. Franz Liszt's pieces for this instrument include a \"fantasy and fugue\" on the motif B flat, A, C, and B 
natural. Francis Poulenc composed a concerto for this instrument, timpani, and strings. Johann Pachelbel 
composed seventy-two choral preludes for this instrument; later choral preludes for this instrument include 
the set of eighteen \"Leipzig\" ones by J. S. Bach, who walked on foot to Lubeck to hear Dieterich 
Buxtehude play it. Bach also composed the Toccata and Fugue in D Minor for this instrument, which is 
played using foot pedals and stops. For 10 points, name this keyboard instrument that produces sound 
through large pipes and is commonly played in churches. 
ANSWER: pipe  
organ 
s 
004-09-12-02120 
20. During the development of this organism, the decapentaplegic gene is needed for patterning the 
imaginal disks. In this organism, pumilio, vasa, staufen, and tudor are responsible for controlling the 
position and expression of nanos, which controls posterior pattern formation. Gradients of hunchback, 
caudal, and bicoid maternal effect genes in this organism are responsible for the activation of segment 
polarity, gap, and pair-rule genes. Hox gene mutations in this organism include ultrabithorax, one in which 
antennae are replaced by legs, and another in which compound eyes appear on the end of the legs. For 10 
points, identify this model organism commonly used to study development, commonly known as the fruit 
fly. 
ANSWER:  
Drosophila  melanogaster 
 [prompt on  
fruit fly 
] 
048-09-12-02121 
21. One pope of this name believed Conrad of Marburg's lies that the Cathars worshiped Satan, causing him 
to issue the papal ball  
Vox in Rama 
. The first pope of this name sent Augustine of Canterbury to convert the 
Anglo-Saxons in England to Christianity. The eighth pope of this name called for the Third Crusade in 
1187. The death of the eleventh pope of this name sparked the Western Schism in 1378. The seventh pope 
of this name issued the papal bull  
Dictatus Papae 
 banning secular leaders from appointing church officials, 
sparking the investiture controversy. For 10 points, identify this name shared by a pope who ordered that 
only years divisible by four hundred were leap years, resulting in the adoption of his namesake calendar. 
ANSWER:  
Gregory 
004-09-12-02122 
22. During his time in a seminary, this character is mentored by Pirard, who later recommends this figure 
for a position which sees him deliver a memorized message to the Duke of Angoulême. This character 
receives pre-written romantic letters from Prince Korsakoff to help seduce a woman who compares him to 
her executed ancestor Boniface. After his death, this character's severed head is placed in a marbled cave by 
his lover. His relationship with Mathilde de la Mole is later derailed by the revelation of this character's 
affair with his student Mme. de Rênal, whom this character is executed for shooting. For 10 points, name 
this overly ambitious protagonist of Stendhal's  
The Red and the Black 
. 
ANSWER: Julien  
Sorel 
 [or  
Julien 
 Sorel] 
059-09-12-02123 
23. Depending on whether a system is isobaric or isothermal, there may exist invariant, univariant or 
divariant forms of this condition, a fact reflected in the Gibbs phase rule. In chemistry, ICE charts may be 
used to calculate property values for a reaction in this state. Statics is the study of a form of this condition 
in which the net moments and forces on a are both zero. The thermal form of this condition is transitive 
according to the zeroth law of thermodynamics. Chemical ones of these are stable as Le Châtelier's 
principle states that a system perturbed from this state will shift back toward it. For 10 points, name this 
condition in which, roughly speaking, a system will not change over time unless acted upon by outside 
forces. 
ANSWER:  
equilibrium 
064-09-12-02124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  5 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 2 
Bonuses 
1. Jacques Monod discovered the first of these structures, which contains an attenuator sequence unlike the 
later-discovered lac type. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these transcription-regulating structures that contain multiple genes and a namesake sequence. 
The trp and ara ones are well-studied examples of these. 
ANSWER:  
operon 
s 
[10] Operons also contain these DNA sequences that bind RNA polymerase. The lac operon one contains a 
second binding site for the CAP-cAMP complex. 
ANSWER:  
promoter 
s 
[10] In bacteria, this sequence within the promoter is bound by RNA polymerase in order to allow 
transcription to occur. It is analagous to the TATA box in eukaryotes. 
ANSWER:  
Pribnow 
 box 
032-09-12-02201 
2. These weapons mowed down French soldiers at the Battle of Pavia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this early muzzle-loading gunpowder weapon with a matchlock, that succeeded the hand 
cannon, and was used primarily against enemies wearing steel plate armor. 
ANSWER:  
arquebus 
 [or  
harkbus 
; or  
hackbut 
] 
[10] Arquebuses don’t work as well in the rain, a lesson that the Comuneros learned when they lost to this 
man at the Battle of Villeroi. This Spanish Holy Roman Emperor also crushed the Schmalkaldic League at 
the Battle of Mühlberg. 
ANSWER:  
Charles V 
 [or  
Charles I 
 of Spain; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
[10] Charles was a successful member of this dynasty, which persisted in Spain for another two hundred 
years, growing more and more prominent lower jaws due to inbreeding. 
ANSWER:  
Hapsburg 
020-09-12-02202 
3. The proof or disproof of this hypothesis was the first of Hilbert's problems. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this hypothesis which states that there is no set whose cardinality is strictly between that of the 
integers and that of the reals. 
ANSWER: the  
continuum 
 hypothesis 
[10] The continuum hypothesis was proposed by this set theory pioneer. He deduced an important property 
of the reals with his so-called diagonalization argument. 
ANSWER: Georg  
Cantor 
[10] Cantor's diagonalization argument shows that the reals are a set of this type. Sets of this type are 
infinite but, cannot be placed in one-to-one correspondence with the natural numbers. 
ANSWER:  
uncountable 
 sets [or  
uncountably infinite 
 sets] 
024-09-12-02203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  6 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. This geographical feature consists of the Springfield and Salem Plateau and the Boston and St. Francois 
Mountains. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this series of mountains and plateaus found in southern Missouri and northern Arkansas. 
ANSWER:  
Ozarks 
[10] A river named for this color flows through the Arkansas portion of the Ozarks. This color also names a 
New Hampshire mountain range that includes Mount Washington. 
ANSWER:  
white 
[10] An area known as the U.S. Interior Highlands is composed of the Ozarks and this mountain range 
found in western Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma. 
ANSWER:  
Ouachita 
 Mountains 
064-09-12-02204 
5. This man served as the first commandant of the Whampoa Military Academy. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Kuomintang leader who, after being defeated by the Communists in the late 1940’s, fled to 
Taiwan where he autocratically ruled as the President of the Republic of China until his death in 1975. 
ANSWER:  
Chiang Kai-shek 
 [accept either, also accept  
Jiang Jieshi 
 or  
Chiang Chung-cheng 
 or  
Chiang 
Chieh-shih 
] 
[10] In this December 1936 incident, Chiang was abducted by Manchurian warlord Zhang Xueliang. Zhang 
wanted Chiang’s nationalists to ally with the Communists to fight the looming Japanese threat. 
ANSWER:  
Xi’an 
 Incident 
[10] Another opponent of the Kuomintang was this man, who after succeeding Sun Yat-sen as provisional 
president in 1912, began to politically persecute the Kuomintang. He would later declare himself emperor 
in 1916. 
ANSWER:  
Yuan Shikai 
 [accept either, also accept  
Yuan Xiangcheng 
] 
052-09-12-02205 
6. This book predicts that the star of Wormwood will fall upon the waters after an angel blows the third of 
seven trumpets. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this final Biblical book, which describes the opening of seven seals and the arrival of the harlot 
of Babylon, and is traditionally ascribed to John of Patmos. 
ANSWER: Book of  
Revelation 
 [or the  
Apocalypse 
] 
[10] The Book of Revelation is a major subject of this branch of theology, which studies beliefs in the end 
times. 
ANSWER:  
eschatology 
[10] In the Book of Revelation, John of Patmos describes seeing this number of believers in heaven with 
the name of God inscribed on their foreheads. Although most theologians believe this number is symbolic, 
the Jehovah's Witnesses preach that exactly this many people will enter heaven. 
ANSWER:  
one hundred and forty four thousand 
004-09-12-02206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  7 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. This pianist recorded  
Explorations 
 and  
Portrait in Jazz 
 with a trio that included Paul Motian and Scott 
LaFaro, and went on to create the  
Conversations With Myself 
 using studio multitracking. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this composer of \"Waltz for Debby\" and \"Blue in Green,\" who was most widely heard as the 
primary piano player on  
Kind of Blue. 
ANSWER: William John \"Bill\"  
Evans 
[10] The majority of  
Kind of Blue 
 was composed by this trumpeter, who led the group that recorded the 
album. His other works include  
Birth of the Cool 
 and  
In a Silent Way. 
ANSWER: Miles Dewey  
Davis 
 III 
[10] Both John Coltrane and Cannonball Adderley play sax solos on this track from  
Kind of Blue. 
 Most 
editions of the album include two separate takes of this Spanish-influenced piece. 
ANSWER: \" 
Flamenco Sketches 
\" 
019-09-12-02207 
8. He steals some candlesticks from a bishop after being labeled 24601 during a prison sentence incurred 
from stealing bread. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this protagonist of Victor Hugo’s  
Les Miserables 
. 
ANSWER:  
Jean 
 Valjean [or Jean  
Valjean 
] 
[10] Jean Valjean at first opposes his adopted daughter Cosette’s relationship with this man. He fights at 
the barricades before marrying Cosette. 
ANSWER:  
Marius 
 Pontmercy [or Marius  
Pontmercy 
] 
[10] Jean assumes this pseudonym to become a wealthy factory owner and mayor. Inspector Javert 
becomes suspicious of this persona when he lifts a wagon to rescue a man. 
ANSWER: Monsieur  
Madeleine 
015-09-12-02208 
9. It requires market segmentation, in which consumers are divided into homogeneous and identifiable 
groups. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this practice of selling a good at different prices to different buyers. 
ANSWER:  
price discrimination 
[10] Price discrimination reduces profit, but increases competition in this scenario where the market only 
has a few sellers. 
ANSWER:  
oligopoly 
[10] This 1936 law banned several practices considered anti-competitive including price discrimination, 
except in cases where it is needed in a good faith effort to compete. 
ANSWER:  
Robinson-Patman 
 Act 
001-09-12-02209 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  8 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. Near the end of this novel, the narrator discovers used streams for sale at the Cleveland Wrecking Yard. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1967 novel, whose narrator encounters a Kool-Aid Wino and mails a legless wino to Nelson 
Algren. Its narrator searches for the pastoral innocence represented by the title creatures. 
ANSWER:  
Trout Fishing in America 
[10]  
Trout Fishing in America 
's quest for a pastoral American experience echoes this book by Henry David 
Thoreau, which describes the two years he spent living by the title pond. 
ANSWER:  
Walden 
[10] A recurring motif of  
Trout Fishing in America 
 is a San Francisco statue of this diplomat. His 
autobiography details his \"project of arriving at moral perfection\" by recording how often he practiced 
thirteen virtues. 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
Franklin 
004-09-12-02210 
11. These can be resolved by using linear probing or separate chaining. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these occurrences that happen when two inputs are mapped to the same output. 
ANSWER:  
collision 
s 
[10] Collisions are harmful when they occur in these structures, made up of an array and an associative 
function used for storing data. 
ANSWER: associative  
hash 
es (or  
hash table 
s) 
[10] Chaining to resolve collisions makes use of a linked kind of this structure. These structures in general 
consist of nodes containing a value, a pointer to the next node, and possibly other pointers. 
ANSWER: linked  
list 
s 
023-09-12-02211 
12. Popular examples of this genre of novels include Henry Mackenzie's  
The Man of Feeling 
 and Susan 
Warner's  
The Wide, Wide World 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this genre of novels popular with female readers in the second half of the eighteenth century and 
the first half of the nineteenth. They exalt the power of the emotions over law and reason. 
ANSWER:  
sentimental 
 novels [or novels of  
sensibility 
] 
[10] This Irish author helped popularize the sentimental novel with his book  
A Sentimental Journey 
. He 
celebrated the power of the sentiments with his gentle characters Uncle Toby and Corporal Trim. 
ANSWER: Laurence  
Sterne 
[10] This author satirized the sentimental novel in his books  
Shamela 
 and  
Joseph Andrews 
. He expanded 
the bounds of the English novel by writing  
Tom Jones 
. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Fielding 
004-09-12-02212 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  9 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. While serving as secretary general of the United Nations, this man established an emergency force to 
help resolve the 1956 Suez Crisis. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Swedish diplomat, who died in a plane crash while on a mission to resolve civil war in 
Congo. 
ANSWER: Dag  
Hammarskjold 
[10] Hammarskjold’s predecessor as secretary general was this Norwegian, who ceased to be recognized as 
secretary general by the Soviet Union due to the UN’s involvement in the Korean War. 
ANSWER: Trygve  
Lie 
[10] This man served as secretary general from 1972 to 1981. He was elected president of Austria in 1986 
despite revelations that he served as an interpreter and intelligence officer to a German unit in World War 
II that committed war crimes. 
ANSWER: Kurt  
Waldheim 
030-09-12-02213 
14. Walter Damrosch commissioned this composition, which was premiered by the New York Symphony 
Orchestra in 1925. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this three-movement concerto strongly influenced by jazz. Its first movement ends with the 
orchestra energetically playing the Charleston. 
ANSWER:  
Concerto in F 
[10] Damrosch commissioned this composer to write the  
Concerto in F 
 after hearing the premiere of his  
Rhapsody in Blue 
. 
ANSWER: George  
Gershwin 
[10] Unlike many fellow American composers, including Virgil Thompson and Aaron Copland, Gershwin 
did not study under this influential French music teacher, who made her students memorize  
The 
Well-Tempered Clavier 
. 
ANSWER: Nadia  
Boulanger 
004-09-12-02214 
15. Troops from the defeated side had already been overwhelmed previously at Amba Alagi, but this didn't 
keep Oreste Baratieri from allowing his troops to be destroyed piecemeal through an uncoordinated attack. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1896 battle which saw troops under Menelik II overwhelm four brigades of Italian infantry. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Adwa 
 [or Battle of  
Adowa 
] 
[10] Adowa was a turning point in the history of this nation later led by Haile Selassie, which along with 
Liberia became one of only two African countries to remain free of European imperialism in the 19th 
century. 
ANSWER:  
Ethiopia 
[10] Ethiopia was later headed by a communist junta called the Derg, which was led by this war crimes 
perpetrator who cracked down on student unrest in the Red Terror. 
ANSWER:  
Mengistu 
 Haile Mariam 
059-09-12-02215 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  10 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. Name some things about the philosophy of language, for 10 points each. 
[10] This American philosopher claimed that names are created in a process of \"initial baptism\" in his 
major tome,  
Naming and Necessity 
. 
ANSWER: Saul Aaron  
Kripke 
[10] This philosopher discussed the statement \"The present king of France is bald\" in \"On Denoting,\" and 
also co-authored  
Principia Mathematica 
. 
ANSWER: Bertrand Arthur William  
Russell 
[10] This founder of twentieth-century linguistics developed the idea of the linguistic sign in his 
posthumously published work, the  
Course in General Linguistics 
. 
ANSWER: Ferdinand de  
Saussure 
024-09-12-02216 
17. For 10 points each, name these nineteenth century French authors. 
[10] This author's novel  
The Mysterious Island 
 describes the backstory of Captain Nemo, who commands 
the Nautilus in this author's  
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea 
. 
ANSWER: Jules  
Verne 
[10] This author of  
Tartarin of Tarascon 
 collected his short stories about southern France in  
Tales From 
My Windmill 
. Georges Bizet composed incidental music to this author's play  
L'Arlesienne 
. 
ANSWER: Alphonse  
Daudet 
[10] In the preface to his novel  
Mademoiselle de Maupin 
, this author advocated the aesthetic of \"l'art pour 
l'art,\" or \"art for art's sake.\" 
ANSWER: Theophile  
Gautier 
004-09-12-02217 
18. For 10 points each, answer the following about interference in psychology. 
[10] In this effect, the sound of one consonant is paired with a video of a mouth enunciating a different 
consonant. The result is that the listener hears a third consonant altogether. 
ANSWER:  
McGurk 
 effect 
[10] This similar effect asks subjects to state the color of a printed word. The problem is that the printed 
word is a color other than the color the word is printed in. 
ANSWER:  
Stroop 
 effect 
[10] The Bruner-Postman experiment created \"trick\" versions of these objects, in which everything was the 
same except that the color was incongruous. It took subjects four times as long an exposure time to identify 
them. 
ANSWER: playing  
cards 
003-09-12-02218 
19. Name these third-place Presidential candidates, for 10 points each. 
[10] After capturing nineteen percent of votes in the 1992 election, this Texas businessman founded the 
Reform Party, under whose banner he ran again in 1996. 
ANSWER: Henry Ross  
Perot 
[10] This Vice-President to James Buchanan finished behind Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas as the 
pro-slavery Democrats’ candidate in 1860. His actor grandson achieved similar success by portraying “The 
Ruler” in  
Plan 9 From Outer Space. 
ANSWER: John Cabell  
Breckenridge 
[10] This Presbyterian minister and cofounder of the ACLU was the recurring Socialist Party candidate for 
President from 1928 to 1948, finishing in third place twice. 
ANSWER: Norman Mattoon  
Thomas 
019-09-12-02219 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  11 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. Bryce, Anthelea, and ten more of these figures were born to Polyxo, while the rest were born to Pieria 
and other women. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these fifty daughters of a namesake king, whose brother Aegyptus tried to set them up with fifty 
sons of his own, though forty-nine of these figures killed their suitors. 
ANSWER:  
Danaid 
es 
[10] The sole Daniad to not kill her suitor was Hypermnestra, who was saved from her father's wrath by 
this goddess of love. 
ANSWER:  
Aphrodite 
 [or  
Cytherea 
; or  
Cypris 
; or even  
Venus 
] 
[10] For their crime, the Danaides were forced to eternally fill a bath with water from jugs that were 
actually sieves in this location, the deepest abyss of the underworld. 
ANSWER:  
Tartarus 
 [or  
Erebus 
] 
020-09-12-02220 
21. An example is Avery Island in Louisiana. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these intrusions of a namesake substance into rock. Hydrocarbon pockets are often found 
beneath these structures, making them prized by oil seekers. 
ANSWER:  
salt dome 
s 
[10] These are folds in a rock layer which are convex up. They are caused when layers of rock are inverted. 
Like salt domes, they are often a marker of nearby extractable hydrocarbons. 
ANSWER:  
anticline 
s (do not accept or prompt on \"synclines\") 
[10] Kerogen is found in the \"oil\" variety of this type of rock, a sedimentary rock that can metamorphose to 
become shale. 
ANSWER:  
slate 
001-09-12-02221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 2     Page  12 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
