NASAT 2013 
Round 19 
Tossups 
1. This character laments how \"the double-meaning of life accuses me\" in a soliloquy he begins by asking, 
\"Were it possible, could I no longer do as I wish?\" This character's daughter acquires horses from 
Rosenberg in order to travel with Lady Neubrunn to the grave of her beloved. In the final work in which he 
appears, this man flees to Eger, where he is killed in his bedroom by Macdonald and Deveroux. The 
commissioner Von Questenburg is sent to investigate this character's loyalty, while Octavio Piccolomini 
reveals to the Emperor this man's possible plan to defect to the Swedish forces. For 10 points, identify this 
title character of a trilogy of plays by Friedrich Schiller, a Bohemian general from the Thirty Years' War. 
ANSWER: Albrecht von  
Wallenstein 
 [or the Duke of  
Friedland 
] 
029-13-83-19101 
2. In one work, this thinker notes that we have accepted seeing “native” people naked because their breasts 
have become as unhuman as a cow’s udders. This man discussed the development of a nation based on 
rituals, rather than conquest or tyranny in his book about a “Theater State,”  
Negara. 
 He compared the 
development of the title religion in Morocco and Indonesia in  
Islam Observed. 
 This anthropologist 
constantly used “thick description” in works like  
The Interpretation of Cultures. 
 For 10 points, name this 
champion of symbolic anthropology who wrote “Deep Play: Notes on the Balinese Cockfight.” 
ANSWER: Clifford James  
Geertz 
192-13-83-19102 
3. Frederic Triebert's “systeme 6” for this instrument became the international standard after its adoption 
by the Paris Conservatoire. Books for this instrument include A.M.R. Barret's exercises and a more modern 
text by Albert Andraud. Arnold Bax composed a quintet for Leon Goossens, the first player of this 
instrument to use diaphragm vibrato. Mozart's C major concerto for this instrument was later reworked into 
his second flute concerto. An early larger version of this instrument, called a hautboy, was often used in 
military processions. Because its pitch is secure, orchestras often tune to the concert A of this instrument, 
which represents the duck in Prokofiev's  
Peter and the Wolf. 
 For 10 points, name this double-reed 
woodwind instrument. 
ANSWER:  
oboe 
 [or  
hautboy 
 before it is mentioned if you're from the seventeenth century] 
121-13-83-19103 
4. This poet described how “all day long my heart was in my knee” in a poem about how the addressee’s 
favors “and my mind may chime, and mend my rhyme.” The speaker urges himself to “forsake thy cage, 
thy rope of sands” in one of his poems beginning, “I struck the board and cried, ‘No more; I will abroad!’” 
In another poem, this poet of “Denial” told God, “A heart alone is such a stone, as nothing but thy power 
doth cut.” He concluded, “if I imp my wing on thine, affliction shall advance the flight in me” in a poem 
originally printed sideways. For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet who included “The Altar” and 
“Easter Wings” in his collection  
The Temple. 
ANSWER: George  
Herbert 
014-13-83-19104 
NASAT 2013     19     Page  1 of 12 
5. This organization is funded by a \"quota\" charged from member states based on their wealth. A leader of 
this organization got into trouble for agreeing in an interview that \"they had a nice time and it is now 
payback time.\" This organization's research director, Olivier Blanchard, released a paper admitting that 
fiscal multipliers may have been at 1.5 rather than .5. This institution is typically headed by a European 
while its counterpart is headed by an American. A head of this organization got into legal troubles with 
Nafissatou Diallo, a maid who had alleged sexual assault. For 10 points, name this institution whose heads 
have included Christine Lagarde and Dominique Strauss-Kahn, an international lender along with the 
World Bank. 
ANSWER:  
IMF 
 [or  
International Monetary Fund 
] 
080-13-83-19105 
6. A war between these two countries erupted after one country was destabilized by its king's death by 
monkey bite. Each of these two countries agreed to give the other 1.5 million citizens in a population swap 
after a war they fought over the Megali Idea. In 1999, the relationship between these two countries 
improved through mutual aid provided when each was struck by an earthquake. In August 1923, both of 
these countries ratified the treaty of Lausanne, which ended a state of war between them that lasted for 
three years after World War I. For 10 points, name these two countries that dispute the island of Cyprus and 
parts of the Anatolian peninsula. 
ANSWER:  
Greece 
 and Republic of  
Turkey 
 [accept  
Turkiye 
 Cumhuriyeti for \"Turkey\"; accept  
Hellenic 
Republic Elliniki Dimokratia Ellas 
,  ,  , or  
Ellada 
 for \"Greece\"] 
080-13-83-19106 
7. This quantity at a temperature T can be found by subtracting alpha T squared over T plus beta from this 
quantity at absolute zero. This quantity is indirect when it requires a phonon-assisted transition due to 
energy maxima and minima not occurring at the same crystal momentum. Doping introduces new allowed 
states at fractional values of this quantity. At absolute zero, the Fermi level is half the value of this quantity. 
The wavelength of light absorbed or emitted by semiconductors can be calculated by using this quantity in 
Planck's relation. For 10 points, name this quantity that is the required energy to excite a carrier from the 
valence band to the conduction band. 
ANSWER:  
band gap 
 [prompt on  
energy gap 
; prompt on forbidden  
energy band 
] 
190-13-83-19107 
8. In Chinese myth, an animal of this color guards over autumn and the western quadrant of the sky. A 
book named for this color, from Rhyderch, provided source material for the Mabinogion. Except for their 
red ears, the hounds of Annwn are this color. Vortigern tried to build a castle where a dragon of this color 
defeated a red one, representing the Britons' defeat of the Saxons. A book claiming there was a 
pan-European matriarchal religion was titled for this kind of \"goddess\" and written by Robert Graves. Kalki 
will arrive riding a horse of this color, also the color of the bull with which Pasiphae fell in love. For 10 
points, name this color of the sails unused by Theseus. 
ANSWER:  
white 
121-13-83-19108 
NASAT 2013     19     Page  2 of 12 
9. The skin basement membrane of sufferers of this disease often shows a band of IgM. The presence of a 
protein named for and associated with this disease is found via the Dilute Russell’s viper venom time. 
People with slow N-acetyltransferase are susceptible to a form of this disease caused by drugs like 
procainamide. This disease causes Libman-Sacks endocarditis and a form of nephritis with wire-loop 
abnormalities. This disease is partly caused by a break in tolerance caused by continuous exposure to 
apoptotic products of lymphocytes. This disease often presents with anti-Smith and anti-nuclear antibodies, 
and patients are hypersensitive to sunlight. For 10 points, name this autoimmune disease with a 
characteristic butterfly rash on the face. 
ANSWER:  
lupus 
 [accept  
systemic lupus erythromatosis 
 or  
SLE 
] 
048-13-83-19109 
10. This man's imprisonment of Robert Serles provoked the Prebendaries' Plot against him, which was 
aided by his longtime nemesis Stephen Gardiner. According to legend, he publicly burned off the right 
hand that had \"offended\" by writing out a recantation. Late in life, this official was confined to the Bocardo 
prison with Nicholas Ridley and Hugh Latimer. Under his direction, the Forty-two Articles were written. 
He was executed during the Marian Persecutions for his role in such tasks as creating the litany used in the 
Book of Common Prayer. For 10 points, name this archbishop of Canterbury who spearheaded the English 
Reformation. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Cranmer 
080-13-83-19110 
11. One of this author's characters fails to stop at a chapel while leading a caravan past Agrava, and as a 
result falls victim to \"the lurking Moslem's knife\". One of his poems opens with the title character winging 
\"his way above the sinful earth\" lamenting his exile; that character is \"abandoned, without love or hope!\" 
after his kiss kills his love, the princess Tamara. In a novel by this man, Bela dies after being kidnapped by 
Kazbych, while the protagonist reunites with his ex-lover Vera after abandoning Princess Mary. Maxim 
Maximych appears in that novel, whose protagonist kills Grushnitzky in a dramatic cliffside duel. For 10 
points, name this poet of \"The Demon\" who created the Byronic hero Pechorin in  
A Hero of Our Time 
. 
ANSWER: Mikhail Yuryevich  
Lermontov 
029-13-83-19111 
12. The proof of the Crochemore-Perrin two-way algorithm relies on a lemma about \"short\" examples of 
these objects. In CIDR notation, the length of the network example of this entity is encoded after the slash. 
The second case of the \"good rule\" in the Boyer-Moore-Algorithm tries to match one of these components 
of the pattern to its counterpart in the target. The Huffman scheme creates a code that is said to be free of 
these. The prebuilt table in the KMP algorithm contains the length of the longest examples of these that 
obey certain requirements. In a different context, Polish notation is this type of notation because of the 
ordering of the operator relative to the operands. For 10 points, name these substrings of a string that start 
of the beginning of the string, unlike suffixes. 
ANSWER:  
prefix 
es 
001-13-83-19112 
13. In a panel showing this scene, a woman whose red dress folds form a star sits reading on a bench 
topped by four lions, and a tiny naked man with a cross flies through a window trailing light. When closed, 
the  
Ghent Altarpiece 
 depicts this scene above its patrons praying before two grisaille statues; by contrast, 
this scene occupies the left-most panel of the fully open  
Isenheim Altarpiece 
. This scene lies to the left of 
St. Joseph building a mousetrap in the center panel of the  
Merode Altarpiece 
. An altarpiece for Santo 
Domenico in Fiesole showing this scene was painted by Fra Angelico. For 10 points, name this Biblical 
scene, often followed by the Nativity, in which Gabriel informs Mary that she will be pregnant with Jesus. 
ANSWER:  
Annunciation 
 [prompt on descriptions of  
Mary 
 being visited by  
Gabriel 
] 
080-13-83-19113 
NASAT 2013     19     Page  3 of 12 
14. This ruler agreed to allow the demolition of fortresses in the Treaty of Gerstungen, but fought the First 
Battle of Langensalza after his family's tomb was desecrated in the process. An enemy of this ruler 
supported Rudolf of Rheinfelden's ineffective rebellion against him and died hiding from him under the 
protection of Robert Guiscard. After conquering Rome, he put Guibert of Ravenna on the papal throne as 
Antipope Clement III, taking revenge against a pope who excommunicated him even after he put on a 
hairshirt and walked barefoot through the snow. For 10 points, name this Holy Roman Emperor who took 
the \"walk to Canossa\" while clashing with Pope Gregory VII in the Investiture Controversy. 
ANSWER:  
Henry IV 
 of the Holy Roman Empire [or  
Henry VIII of Bavaria 
; prompt on  
Henry 
] 
080-13-83-19114 
15. This quantity is responsible for the stability of point defects but not line or plane defects. A factor of 
root N factorial was introduced to this quantity to account for identical particles and keep this quantity 
extensive as this quantity increased by a factor of log 2 when two gases were mixed. The Rankine, Otto and 
Carnot cycles include two steps where this quantity is held constant. Two of the four common 
thermodynamic potentials include a negative term where it is multiplied by temperature. In the Clausius 
inequality, the change in it is given as the line integral of the change in total heat over time. It equals 
Boltzmann's constant times the log of the number of microstates. For 10 points, name this quantity 
symbolized S that represents the disorder of a system. 
ANSWER:  
entropy 
 [or   until it is read] 
S 
190-13-83-19115 
16. In 1970, workers in this agency kicked off a wildcat strike in protest of a bill increasing Congressional 
pay by forty-one percent and their pay by four percent. Lysander Spooner created a private company to 
compete with this agency in the 1840s. Stephen Dorsey, Thomas J. Brady, and Brady Barlow were 
implicated in a corruption scandal involving this agency that was investigated by James Garfield; that was 
the Star Route Scandal. Heads of this agency have included Thomas Ewing, Montgomery Blair, and 
Benjamin Franklin. For 10 points, name this agency that oversees the sending of mail in the US. 
ANSWER: United States  
Postal Service 
 [or United States  
Post Office 
 Department] 
080-13-83-19116 
17. This poem addresses “you who have waited for the angry resolution of those desires that should be 
yours tomorrow” before comparing speculation to a jaguar that “leaps for his own image in a jungle pool.” 
This poem’s second stanza describes how “the brute curiosity of an angel’s stare” turns the viewer to 
stone. The speaker of this poem ambiguously asserts, “We shall say only the leaves flying, plunge and 
expire,” before calling “the gentle serpent, green in the mulberry bush” the “sentinel of the grave who 
counts us all.” For 10 points, name this ode describing a Civil War cemetery written by Allen Tate. 
ANSWER: “ 
Ode to the Confederate Dead 
” 
014-13-83-19117 
18. In one of this composer's operas, a voice from heaven announces the salvation of several souls subject 
to an auto-da-fe, and Princess Eboli sings about Achmet's attempt to seduce his own wife in the \"Veil 
Song.\" He was forced to change the setting for another opera from Sweden to the United States to avoid 
Roman censorship; that opera is about the assassination of Gustavus III. In an opera by this composer, 
Giorgio sings \"Pura siccome un angelo\" to try to convince the title character not to marry his son. This 
composer of  
A Masked Ball 
 wrote an opera about the love between Alfredo and the courtesan Violetta, who 
dies of tuberculosis. For 10 points, name this Italian composer of  
Don Carlo 
 and  
La Traviata 
. 
ANSWER: Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco  
Verdi 
080-13-83-19118 
NASAT 2013     19     Page  4 of 12 
19. A 1907 Danish silent film that depicts this activity was the subject of widespread protests, because its 
footage was not scripted. This activity is planned by empikas and carried out by several people who leave 
their village at dawn. The Rhodesian Ridgeback is bred specifically for this activity, which, if done 
successfully, results in a great deal of prestige among men in Maasai society. This activity was was 
performed out of necessity by John Henry Patterson after the construction of the Kenya-Uganda railway 
was halted by the attacks of the Man-Eaters of Tsavo. For 10 points, name this activity, a centerpiece of 
traditional safaris which involves killing a large cat. 
ANSWER:  
lion hunt 
 [or synonyms; prompt on  
hunt 
ing] 
020-13-83-19119 
20. In the Taiwanese Yimin Festival, these animals are force fed and paraded. In Buddhism, a snake, bird, 
and this animal represent the three poisons, with this animal representing ignorance. The Mahayana 
Buddhist goddess of the dawn Marici is usually depicted riding on seven of these animals. When a demon 
named Hiranyaksha dragged the earth to the bottom of the sea, an avatar of Vishnu named Varaha took this 
form and raised the earth out of the sea. While in Gerasenes, Jesus cast Legion into a herd of these animals, 
which subsequently ran off of a cliff into the sea. For 10 points, name this type of animal which Leviticus 
11:8 states is unclean to eat. 
ANSWER:  
pigs 
 [or reasonable equivalents, including  
swine 
; or  
hogs 
; or  
pork 
; or even  
boar 
s] 
030-13-83-19120 
21. This movement presented Parliament with an act drafted by Virginia Woolf's great-grandfather, James 
Stephen. Thomas Clarkson got political traction for this movement by translating a prize-winning Latin 
essay he'd written seven years earlier. Josiah Wedgwood designed a famous medallion in support of this 
movement. Lord Mansfield gave this movement an early victory with his decision in Somersett's Case. The 
Zong massacre was used to create support for this movement by Granville Sharpe and Olaudah Equiano. 
This movement's champions were often evangelicals like John Newton and William Wilberforce. For 10 
points, name this movement that sought to end the use of human chattel in the British empire. 
ANSWER: British  
abolitionism 
 [or  
abolishing slavery 
 in Great Britain; or  
abolishing 
 the  
slave trade 
 in 
England] 
080-13-83-19121 
22. In one poem, this poet described the burning feeling of “cold dark deep and absolutely clear” water and 
observed, “it is like what we imagine knowledge to be.” In another of her poems, two owls fly away from 
the conflagration caused by the crashing of an illegal fire balloon. That poem concludes with the image of 
“a weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky.” This poet of “At the Fishhouses” had a same-sex 
relationship with Lota de Macedo Soares in Brazil, which she wrote about in  
Questions of Travel 
. This poet 
advised the reader to “practice losing farther, losing faster” in a poem about things whose loss “is no 
disaster.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “The Armadillo” and “One Art.” 
ANSWER: Elizabeth  
Bishop 
014-13-83-19122 
23. One of these paintings shows a wrinkled old man laughing and references the story of the ancient Greek 
painter Zeuxis, who died laughing. Another of these paintings shows its subject, shrouded in darkness, in 
front of two opposing semicircles. In one of these paintings, a man in kingly gold clothes gazes directly at 
the viewer and uses a maulstick as though it were a scepter. One of these paintings shows its subject 
dressed up as an Oriental nobleman with a dog, and several of them show their subject with his wife Saskia. 
It is said that the expressive eyes in these paintings remain the same despite their subject aging nearly five 
decades over their course. For 10 points, name these paintings by the artist of  
The Night Watch 
 of himself. 
ANSWER:  
self-portraits 
 of  
Rembrandt 
 van Rijn [prompt on partial answer; prompt on  
portraits of 
Rembrandt 
 or  
paintings of Rembrandt 
] 
080-13-83-19123 
NASAT 2013     19     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2013 
Round 19 
Bonuses 
1. For 10 points each, answer the following about Geoffrey Chaucer's  
Canterbury Tales. 
[10] This woman tells a story about a knight who learns what women want: sovereignty. She discusses her 
five husbands in her prologue. 
ANSWER: the  
Wife of Bath 
 [or  
Alisoun 
] 
[10] In the Nun's Priest's tale, this septuply-married rooster tricks a fox into letting him go by telling him to 
taunt the animals chasing him. 
ANSWER:  
Chauntecleer 
 [or  
Chanticleer 
] 
[10] In this person's tale, a demon disguised as a yeoman tricks a summoner into swearing he will never 
repent, then takes the summoner down to hell. 
ANSWER: the  
Friar 
080-13-83-19201  
2. This subject of a 2005 Astra Taylor documentary divided the concept of \"the real\" into \"symbolic\", 
\"imaginary\", and \"real\" modalities. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this author of  
Welcome to the Desert of the Real 
, a University of Ljubljana professor whose 
other books include  
The Parallax View, The Sublime Object of Ideology, 
   and  
Did Somebody Say 
Totalitarianism?. 
ANSWER: Slavoj  
Zizek 
 [or  
Zizek! 
] 
[10] Zizek's conception of \"the real\" built on the work of this Freudian psychoanalyst and author of  
Ecrits 
, 
whose other ideas include an unattainable object of desire called the \"objet petit a\" and the \"mirror stage\". 
ANSWER: Jacques Marie Emile  
Lacan 
[10] Zizek's book  
First As Tragedy, Then As Farce 
 took its title from this German thinker's  
The Eighteenth 
Brumaire of Louis Napoleon 
. This man collaborated with Friedrich Engels on  
The Communist Manifesto 
. 
ANSWER: Karl Heinrich  
Marx 
029-13-83-19202  
3. The protagonist of this novel has his first sexual experience with his wife by raping her on top of his 
brother Mario's grave. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel whose protagonist murders El Estirao, the lover of his sister Rosario and his wife 
Lola. It is written as two \"found\" letters written by the title character in prison. 
ANSWER:  
The  Family of Pascual Duarte 
 [or  
La  Familia de Pascual Duarte 
] 
[10] Camilo Jose Cela, the author of  
The Family of Pascual Duarte 
, set  
The Hive 
 at the end of this war. 
This war is the setting for Ernest Hemingway's  
For Whom The Bell Tolls 
. 
ANSWER: the  
Spanish Civil War 
[10] This other Spanish author moved to America as a child and wrote about Oliver Alden in the novel  
The 
Last Puritan, 
 though he is better known as a philosopher. 
ANSWER: George  
Santayana 
080-13-83-19203  
NASAT 2013     19     Page  6 of 12 
4. One example of this technique is used in Petrus Christus's  
Portrait of a Carthusian Monk 
, which 
includes a fly at the bottom. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this technique, French for \"deceiving the eye,\" in which the subjects of paintings appear to pop 
out of their frames. 
ANSWER:  
trompe-l'oeil 
[10] This painter's work  
Trompe-L'oeil 
 shows a sketch of several bulls on a sheet of paper attached to a 
wooden board. Encouraged to take up painting by Sir Joshua Reynolds, he produced 40 paintings of scenes 
from  
Paradise Lost 
 and contributed to Boydell's Shakespeare Gallery. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Fuseli 
 [or Johann Heinrich  
Fussli 
] 
[10] A more modern example is this woman's painting  
The Suicide of Dorothy Hale 
. This wife of Diego 
Rivera sported a unibrow. 
ANSWER: Frida  
Kahlo 
 de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frieda  
Kahlo 
 y Calderon] 
020-13-83-19204  
5. Answer the following about the 80th, or the \"Do-Nothing,\" Congress, for 10 points each. 
[10] The Congress got its nickname for being notoriously uncooperative with this president, who 
desegregated the armed forces and succeeded FDR. 
ANSWER: Harry S.  
Truman 
[10] The Congress did manage to pass this amendment, which set a term limit for the presidency. 
ANSWER:  
Twenty-Second 
 Amendment to the United States Constitution 
[10] Faced with a low approval rating, Truman called this special session of the Congress, challenging 
them to live up to their promise to pass much-needed legislation. It's named for the 25th of July in 
Missouri, on which you sow a certain vegetable, \"wet or dry.\" 
ANSWER:  
Turnip 
 Day Session 
020-13-83-19205  
6. This equation includes two four-by-four Hermitian, anti-commuting matrices symbolized alpha and beta. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this equation which extends the Schrodinger equation to relativistic motion. It led to the 
prediction of antimatter. 
ANSWER:  
Dirac 
 equation 
[10] The Dirac equation only applies to these particles. Electrons are one example of these particles, which 
have half-integer spin. 
ANSWER:  
fermion 
s 
[10] Dirac also introduced bra-ket notation for quantum mechanics. In that notation, a function inside of a 
bra indicates that this operation is being applied to the function. 
ANSWER:  
complex conjugate 
190-13-83-19206  
7. This city’s namesake national park is located to its south, and this city lies east of the Ngong Hills. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this city whose suburb of Eastleigh is known as “Little Mogadishu” because of its large number 
of Somali immigrants. This city is the location of Kenyatta National Hospital. 
ANSWER:  
Nairobi 
[10] This city is the site of Fort Jesus and contains Kilindini Harbor. It's the principal port of Kenya. 
ANSWER:  
Mombasa 
[10] These nomadic peoples reside in the southern portion of Kenya and in Tanzania. Young men of this 
group are known as morans and their ceremonial events are conducted by oloiboni. 
ANSWER:  
Maasai 
030-13-83-19207  
NASAT 2013     19     Page  7 of 12 
8. This film opens with documentary footage of scorpions. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this film in which two lover's attempts to consummate their relationship are thwarted by 
bourgeois French society. This surrealist comedy includes a scene in which a woman erotically sucks on 
the toes of a religious statue. 
ANSWER:  
L' Age d'Or 
 [or  
The  Age of Gold 
; or  
The  Golden Age 
] 
[10] This man directed, and worked with Salvador Dali on the screenplay for,  
L'Age d'Or 
. The two 
collaborated on another movie in which a young man dresses in a nun's outfit. 
ANSWER: Luis  
Buñuel 
[10] This aforementioned Buñuel/Dali collaboration opens with the director cutting an eye with a razor. At 
one point in this film, ants crawl out of a young man's hand. 
ANSWER:  
Un  chien andalou 
 [or  
An  Andalusian Dog 
] 
066-13-83-19208  
9. Answer some questions about a disease common in European royalty, for 10 points each: 
[10] This disease results from the inability to clot blood. One form of it is caused by mutations in von 
Willebrand factor. 
ANSWER:  
hemophilia 
[10] Hemophilia A, or the “royal” form of hemophilia, is caused by a mutation in this blood clotting factor, 
which actually circulates in a complex with von Willebrand factor. 
ANSWER: Factor  
VIII 
 [or factor  
eight 
] 
[10] This other blood clotting factor has a mutation named for the city of Leiden which renders it unable to 
be cleaved by activated protein C. That mutation causes excessive clotting in veins. 
ANSWER: factor   [or factor  
V five 
] 
048-13-83-19209  
10. This man's murderers fled to New Haven, where Goffe, Whalley, and Dixwell avenues commemorate 
them. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this king reviled for his attempts to raise ship money and for his marriage to the Catholic 
Henrietta Maria. He was beheaded in 1649. 
ANSWER:  
Charles I 
 [prompt on  
Charles 
] 
[10] Before the English Civil War, Charles I pursued these failed conflicts in Scotland after an attempt to 
impose the Book of Common Prayer. 
ANSWER:  
Bishops 
' Wars 
[10] This Archbishop of Canterbury under Charles I carried out the \"thorough\" campaigns of reforms to 
standardize religious policy and, as detractors such as William Prynne claimed, make it more like 
Catholicism. 
ANSWER: William  
Laud 
104-13-83-19210  
NASAT 2013     19     Page  8 of 12 
11. The British memorial to John F. Kennedy is at this location. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this water-meadow west of London that is the most likely site for the 1215 sealing of a certain 
document that limited the king of England's powers. 
ANSWER:  
Runnymede 
[10] The signer of the Magna Carta, King John, was the son of this woman, who married his father Henry II 
after annulling a marriage with Louis VII of France. 
ANSWER:  
Eleanor 
 of Aquitaine 
[10] John signed the Magna Carta after losing to Philip Augustus as part of a coalition at this 1214 battle, 
which strengthened French holdings on Brittany and Normandy. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Bouvines 
192-13-83-19211  
12. In one of this author's plays, the one-armed Johnny is killed, possibly due to his betrayal of Robbie 
Tancred. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Irish playwright of  
Shadow of a Gunman 
 and  
Juno and the Paycock 
. 
ANSWER: Sean  
O'Casey 
[10] O'Casey provoked riots at the Abbey Theater with this play, in which Jack Clitheroe dies during the 
Easter Rising. 
ANSWER:  
The  Plough and the Stars 
[10] In  
Shadow of a Gunman 
, Minnie Powell saves Donal Davoren by removing a bag full of these items 
from his room before the Black and Tans show up. 
ANSWER:  
bomb 
s [or  
grenade 
s; or  
explosive 
s] 
080-13-83-19212  
13. Damocloids, minor planets with long-period and very eccentric orbits that lack comet tails, are thought 
to come from this region. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this hypothesized spherical region that lies outside of the Kuiper belt at the far edge of our solar 
system. 
ANSWER: Opik- 
Oort Cloud 
[10] The inner section of the Oort Cloud, usually named for Hills, is thought to have this shape. For spiral 
galaxies, this component contains the spiral arms and is paired with the halo and central bulge. 
ANSWER:  
disc 
[10] Models, such as those by Julio Fernandez, suggest that this other region of the solar system may be the 
primary source of objects in the Kuiper Belt. The highly elongated orbits of bodies in this region are due to 
Neptune. 
ANSWER:  
scattered disc 
149-13-83-19213  
NASAT 2013     19     Page  9 of 12 
14. One representative of this organization once treated a man to a fine dinner with nice cigars, then 
immediately threatened his guest with death unless he testified against the \"inner circle\" of the Western 
Federation of Miners. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this detective agency founded by a Scottish immigrant, the avowed enemy of striking laborers 
everywhere. 
ANSWER:  
Pinkerton 
 Government Services [or  
Pinkerton 
 National Detective Agency; or  
Pinkertons 
] 
[10] Pinkerton got his start by claiming to have thwarted the Baltimore plot to assassinate this president. He 
was assassinated anyway four years later by John Wilkes Booth. 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Lincoln 
[10] The aforementioned Pinkerton Agent, James McParland, got Harry Orchard to confess to the murder 
of this Governor of Idaho. Orchard claimed to have killed this man on Big Bill Haywood's orders. 
ANSWER: Frank  
Steunenberg 
020-13-83-19214  
15. For 10 points each, identify these writers who wrote about the state of New York. 
[10] The real-life mobsters Otto Berman and Dutch Schultz mentor the title Bronx kid in this author's novel 
Billy Bathgate 
. His novel  
Ragtime 
 is a panoramic of New York City in the early 20th century. 
ANSWER: E. L.  
Doctorow 
[10] Francis Phelan kills a scab during a trolley strike in New York in this author's novel  
Ironweed 
, the 
most famous of his \"Albany Cycle.\" 
ANSWER: William J.  
Kennedy 
[10] This earlier author wrote  
A History of New York 
 using the pen name Diedrich Knickerbocker. As 
Geoffrey Crayon, he wrote the stories \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\" and \"Rip Van Winkle.\" 
ANSWER: Washington  
Irving 
020-13-83-19215  
16. The two dimensional form of this technique can be used to follow the breakage and formation of 
hydrogen bonds at very high speed. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of spectroscopy which uses wavelengths longer than visible light in order to probe the 
vibrational modes of molecules 
ANSWER:  
IR 
 spectroscopy [or  
infrared 
 spectroscopy] 
[10] This functional group has an IR spectrum with a sharp peak around 1700 inverse centimeters. Grignard 
reagents attack this functional group to form alcohols. 
ANSWER:  
carbonyl 
 [accept  
aldehyde 
 or  
ketone 
] 
[10] This type of spectroscopy commonly used in femtochemistry uses a pair of laser pulses spaced close 
together to follow the progress of a reaction as it happened. It was invented by Ahmed Zewail. 
ANSWER:  
pump-probe 
 spectroscopy 
048-13-83-19216  
NASAT 2013     19     Page  10 of 12 
17. The mortal woman Tyro lusted after one of these gods, enabling Poseidon to disguise himself as that 
god and sire Pelias and Neleus. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these gods, which include the aforementioned Enipeus and the horn-deprived Achelous. 
Another of them, Peneus, changed Daphne into a laurel tree. 
ANSWER: Greek  
river 
 gods [or  
Potamoi 
] 
[10] Putting a coin in a corpse's mouth bought passage via Charon across this other river, which divided the 
Earth and the Underworld. 
ANSWER:  
Styx 
 [or  
Acheron 
] 
[10] According to the  
Metamorphoses 
, the river god Achelous got into a fight with Heracles over Deianira, 
resulting in Achelous' humiliating loss of this body part. 
ANSWER: his  
horn 
020-13-83-19217  
18. This man described “the Antilles pitted with smallpox, the Antilles dynamited with alcohol” in his most 
famous poem. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Martinique poet of  
Notebook of a Return to the Native Land. 
ANSWER: Aime  
Cesaire 
[10] Cesaire, along with Leopold Sedar Senghor and Leon Damas, co-founded this literary movement. This 
postcolonial movement strove to find a common black identity in the face of French racism. 
ANSWER:  
Negritude 
[10] This other Caribbean poet from St. Lucia wrote \"A Far Cry from Africa\" and the play  
Dream on 
Monkey Mountain. 
ANSWER: Derek  
Walcott 
149-13-83-19218  
19. Answer the following about social apartheid in countries that are not South Africa, for 10 points each. 
[10] In 2005, much rioting occurred in this European country due to the squalor of its banlieu suburban 
housing projects, primarily inhabited by North African immigrants. 
ANSWER:  
France 
[10] The \"City of God\" is a famous example of these overpopulated, heavily policed urban shantytowns in 
Brazil. 
ANSWER:  
favela 
s 
[10] Some allege that roadblocks and these locations, found throughout the West Bank, foster a social 
apartheid in Israel by restricting the movements of Palestinians. 
ANSWER: Israeli  
checkpoints 
 [or Israeli Defense Forces  
checkpoints 
; or  
machsom 
; or  
hajez 
] 
020-13-83-19219  
20. Name these techniques used in singing classical music and opera, for 10 points each: 
[10] The  
Lacrimosa 
 from Mozart's  
Requiem 
 calls for this technique, a dramatic lowering of one's singing 
voice for emphasis. 
ANSWER:  
sotto voce 
[10] In this technique, singers attempt to artificially reach notes higher than their normal vocal range. 
ANSWER:  
falsetto 
[10] The performer who sings the \"Queen of the Night\" aria from  
The Magic Flute 
 employs this virtuoso 
technique, characterized by wide leaps, trills, and other elaborate flourishes. 
ANSWER:  
coloratura 
020-13-83-19220  
NASAT 2013     19     Page  11 of 12 
21. Under pressure from her own party to change her economic policies, this woman referenced 
Christopher Fry and declared that \"The lady's not for turning.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Conservative prime minister who governed Britain in the 1980s. 
ANSWER: Margaret Hilda  
Thatcher 
 [or Margaret Hilda  
Roberts 
] 
[10] This political slogan, meaning \"We ourselves,\" was used by Irish nationalists in the early twentieth 
century. It lent its name to a party founded by Arthur Griffith. 
ANSWER:  
Sinn Fein 
[10] Dolores Ibarruri, also known as \"The Passion Flower,\" is best-known for coining this slogan to inspire 
the Spanish Republicans during the Siege of Madrid. Robert Nivelle and Philippe Petain have been 
attributed with saying this phrase during the Battle of Verdun. 
ANSWER:  
They shall not pass 
 [or  
No pasarán 
; or  
Ils ne passeront pas 
] 
080-13-83-19221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     19     Page  12 of 12 
