VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 8 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This king's general Sagmandia captured Gao, the capital of a neighboring empire. He employed an 
architect from Granada named as-Sahili and had the Sankore (sahn-CORE-eh) and Djinguereber 
(JING-uh-ray-bare) mosques built. Writing twelve years after this man traveled through, al-Umari claimed 
that his visit was still being talked about in Cairo. He allegedly flooded Cairo's gold market during his 
extremely lavish hajj. For 10 points, name this fourteenth century ruler who served as the mansa of Mali. 
ANSWER: Kankan  
Musa 
 I [or Mansa  
Musa 
] 
023-13-96-08101 
2. A character in this novel confesses that while driving a wedding party sledge, he once saved his own life 
by tossing the bride and groom overboard. The second book of this novel, \"The Hired Girls,\" recounts how 
the title character's employer Wick Cutter once tried to rape her, and describes her romantic rivalry with 
Lena Lingard. The narrator of this novel remembers how he and the title character took the same train to 
Black Hawk, Nebraska. For 10 points, name this Willa Cather novel about Jim Burden and his Bohemian 
childhood friend. 
ANSWER:  
My Antonia 
020-13-96-08102 
3. This man showed the limitations of rationalism with self-evident contradictions he called \"antinomies.\" 
He claimed rationalists and empiricists were unable to account for synthetic and \"a priori\" truths, whose 
existence he defended with transcendental arguments. In the  
Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, 
 he 
said that all moral actions should be such that we could will them to be universal laws, his categorical 
imperative. For 10 points, name this author of  
Critique of Pure Reason, 
 a German transcendenttalist 
philosopher. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
121-13-96-08103 
4. A member of this family said his presidential campaign had \"Big Mo,\" a reference to momentum, and 
used the phrase \"voodoo economics\" to denounce his party rival. That member of this family used the 
expression \"a thousand points of light\" to discuss civic involvement. Another member of this family was 
President when the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, the No Child Left Behind Act, and the Patriot Act were 
passed. For 10 points, name this family which produced the 41st and 43rd Presidents of the United States, a 
father-son pair. 
ANSWER:  
Bush 
052-13-96-08104 
5. A character in this poem encounters allegorical representations of Sin and Death, to whom he is related, 
who allow him to pass through a gate. This poem's author revised its ten-book version into a twelve-book 
version for its second edition in 1674. In this poem's second book, Moloch speaks at a council held in the 
city of Pandemonium, where a character presides who decides to fly to Earth to corrupt Adam and Eve. For 
10 points, name this religious epic by John Milton. 
ANSWER:  
Paradise Lost 
014-13-96-08105 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  1 of 10 
6. A disease resulting from a defect in this protein manifests in overly-bendy joints and is Ehlers-Danlos 
syndrome. Osteogenesis imperfecta is also caused by defects in this protein and manifests as brittle bones. 
Kidney basement membranes composed of this protein are misshapen in Alport syndrome. A motif in this 
protein features hydroxyproline, which requires Vitamin C for synthesis, explaining the degradation of this 
protein in scurvy sufferers. Glycine constitutes about a third of its amino acids. For 10 points, identify this 
triple-helical protein found in cartilage and blood vessels. 
ANSWER:  
collagen 
234-13-96-08106 
7. This MLB team's ballpark has stands in left field called the Crawford Boxes. During the 1990s and early 
2000s, this team's lineup included the \"Killer Bs,\" comprised of Derek Bell, Lance Berkman, Craig Biggio, 
and Jeff Bagwell. Tal's Hill and a train on a track above left field are features of this team's Minute Maid 
Park. In 2013, this team drafted Mark Appel first overall and moved into the American League. For 10 
points, name this MLB team that plays the Lone Star Series against its in-state rival Texas Rangers. 
ANSWER:  
Houston 
 Astros [or Houston  
Astros 
] 
023-13-96-08107 
8. At very low temperatures, this substance can form frazil, which can eventually accumulate into 
\"pancakes\". A tuya is a volcano found under this substance. The desiccant magnesium sulfate is used to 
remove this substance in the lab. This substance enters soil in the process of infiltration. The kilogram is 
defined as exactly one liter of this substance. In January 2014, this substance was discovered on the dwarf 
planet Ceres. For 10 points, identify this substance whose presence on Earth is studied by hydrologists. 
ANSWER:  
water 
 [or  
H2O 
; or  
steam 
; or  
ice 
; prompt on  
glacier 
s] 
239-13-96-08108 
9. In a novel by this man, the maid Hepzibah owns a shop where a rebellious tenant practices 
daguerreotyping. In a short story by this author, Reverend Hooper refuses to remove the title garment. In 
one of his novels, Holgrave falls in love with Phoebe Pyncheon after she moves into the title house. In a 
novel by this author, Roger Chillingworth discovers that Reverend Dimmesdale is having an affair with his 
wife Hester Prynne. For 10 points, name this author of  
The House of the Seven Gables 
 and  
The Scarlet 
Letter. 
ANSWER: Nathaniel  
Hawthorne 
186-13-96-08109 
10. This organism contains vesicular structures called Berkeley bodies, which are involved in the CTV 
pathway. Its vacuoles contain phosphate-rich \"dancing bodies\". This organism releases A- and 
alpha-factors during mating, and since it cannot metabolize nitrate, this organism requires supplemental 
ammonia and urea to promote growth. This organism is one of the smallest in the phylum Ascomycota, and 
it was the first eukaryote to have its genome sequenced. For 10 points, identify this single-celled fungus 
commonly used to leaven bread and make beer. 
ANSWER: Baker's  
yeast 
 [or  
S accharomyces  cerevisiae 
] 
234-13-96-08110 
11. This organ is converted into a surrogate urinary bladder in the Mitrofanoff procedure. A \"meso\" form of 
this organ functions primarily as a lymphatic structure. Darwin related this organ's function to the cecum's 
in animals, and defects in this organ have been shown to increase  
C. difficile 
 infection rates. The Alvarado 
score can indicate defects in this organ, and pain at McBurney's point is often used to indicate that this 
organ is inflamed. For 10 points, identify this worm-shaped, possibly vestigial, organ that is connected to 
the colon and is surgically removed when swollen. 
ANSWER: vermiform  
appendix 
 [or cecal  
appendix 
; or  
vermix 
] 
234-13-96-08111 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  2 of 10 
12. This crop fed the most beautiful prostitutes of the U.K., according to Adam Smith's  
Wealth of Nations. 
Frederick the Great's planting of it gave an alternate name to the War of the Bavarian Succession. This crop 
of South American origin caused millions to flee on \"coffin ships\" after the  
Phytophthora infestans 
(FEYE-tof-THOR-uh in-FES-tanz) fungus afflicted it with blight in the 1840s. For 10 points, name this 
tuberous staple crop whose failure caused famine in Ireland. 
ANSWER:  
potato 
es [or  
S olanum  tuberosum 
] 
104-13-96-08112 
13. Kevin McKenzie created a danced prologue specifically to show the origin of this creature. Riccardo 
Drigo's score includes a \"grand pas de deux\" for this creature, which ceases to exist after two lovers commit 
suicide together and are seen ascending to heaven. A man freezes after aiming his crossbow at this creature, 
which in some productions has an evil \"black\" counterpart. Von Rothbart's sorcery caused Odette to 
transform into this creature. For 10 points, name this title animal of a Tchaikovsky ballet. 
ANSWER: the  
swan 
 from  
Swan Lake 
020-13-96-08113 
14. This woman included the refrain \"Go, go, go, seek some other where, importune me no more,\" in her 
poem \"When I Was Fair and Young.\" This woman was depicted as Gloriana, the title character of an 
allegorical epic poem by Edmund Spenser. This woman's expressed desire to see Sir John Falstaff fall in 
love was the apocryphal origin of  
The Merry Wives of Windsor. 
 For 10 points, name this monarch during 
whose reign Shakespeare wrote most of his plays. 
ANSWER:  
Elizabeth I 
 [prompt on  
Elizabeth 
] 
014-13-96-08114 
15. The western part of this city is called the Tama Area, and it is the site of an amusement park called 
Sanrio Puroland. This city has many museums located in its Ueno (oo-EY-noh) Park, including the 
National Museum of Western Art. Shopping can be done in this city's commercial district called Ginza. The 
second-tallest structure in the world is this city's namesake Skytree. This city's Imperial Palace is in its 
Chiyoda ward, and Shibuya is the site of its Meiji (MAY-jee) Shrine. For 10 points, name this city that has 
the largest metropolitan area in the world and is the most populous in Japan. 
ANSWER:  
Tokyo 
023-13-96-08115 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 8 
Directed Round 
1A.  What letter denotes the speed of light in physics and is given to a vitamin also known as ascorbic acid? 
ANSWER:  
c 
1B.  What country announced that it had launched a monkey named Fargam into space in December of 
2013? 
ANSWER:  
Iran 
2A.  What Nazi Field Marshal was known as the Desert Fox for his tank warfare tactics in the North 
African theater of World War II? 
ANSWER: Erwin  
Rommel 
2B.  What Shakespeare play begins with the line, \"If music be the food of love, play on?\" 
ANSWER:  
Twelfth Night 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. An angle in standard position has a terminal side that passes 
through (-12, 9). What is the cotangent of this angle? 
ANSWER:  
-4/3 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If “f of x = 3x + 2”, then what is “f-inverse of -4”? 
ANSWER:  
-2 
4A.  What mountain is the highest peak in North Carolina and the highest point east of the Mississippi 
River? 
ANSWER: Mount  
Mitchell 
4B.  What layer of the atmosphere lies above the troposphere? 
ANSWER:  
stratosphere 
5A.  What name is given to solutions, used to maintain a stable pH, that consist of a weak acid and the 
acid's conjugate base? 
ANSWER:  
buffer 
5B.  What Danish physicist proposed a model of the atom with electrons traveling in defined orbits around 
the nucleus? 
ANSWER: Niels  
Bohr 
6A.  In what 1954 Alfred Hitchcock film does a wheelchair bound Jimmy Stewart witness a murder 
through binoculars? 
ANSWER:  
Rear Window 
6B.  What Italian painted  
The Last Judgment 
 and the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel? 
ANSWER:  
Michelangelo 
 di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni 
7A.  What simple device used to simulate computer algorithms consists of a strip of tape and a read-write 
head? 
ANSWER:  
Turing machine 
7B.  What German playwright and friend of Goethe (GUR-tuh) wrote  
The Robbers 
 and  
William Tell? 
ANSWER: Friedrich  
Schiller 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  4 of 10 
8A.  What South American country contains the cities of Cuzco and Machu Picchu? 
ANSWER:  
Peru 
8B.  What shape is given by the simple formula x-squared plus y-squared equals r-squared? 
ANSWER:  
circle 
9A.  What son of Pepin the Short had his reign chronicled by Einhard? 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
9B.  What largest U.S. bank, which is led by CEO Jamie Dimon, agreed in 2013 to a record thirteen billion 
dollar penalty to settle claims over its mortgage backed securities? 
ANSWER:  
J.P. Morgan Chase 
10A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A heat in a swimming meet has 9 racers. If the top 3 
swimmers in the heat qualify for the finals, how many different possible groups of finalists from this heat 
are there? 
ANSWER:  
84 
10B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the volume of a sphere that is inscribed in a cube of 
volume 216 cubic feet? 
ANSWER:  
36 pi 
 cubic feet 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 8 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In this novel, Mikulitsyn (MEE-kool-EET-sin) takes charge of the old Krueger mansion, and Pasha 
assumes the nom de guerre of \"Strelnikov.\" The cocaine addict Liberius leads a group of partisans known 
as the Forest Brotherhood in this book, in which Komarovsky is shot at the Sventitsky's Christmas party. 
The main character's brother Evgraf agrees to care for the main character's daughter Tania at the conclusion 
of this novel. For 10 points, name this novel about a physician and his love interest Lara, a novel by Boris 
Pasternak. 
ANSWER:  
Doctor Zhivago 
030-13-96-08117 
2. Pieces originally for this instrument include \"The Mysterious Barricades,\" by Francois Couperin. A piece 
originally composed for this instrument meant to help Count Keyserling (KAI-zer-ling) sleep consisted of 
an aria with 30 variations. A series of 555 sonatas for this instrument was written by Domenico Scarlatti. 
The Goldberg Variations were composed for this instrument by J.S. Bach. For 10 points, name this 
keyboard instrument popular in the Baroque period that produce music by plucking, rather than striking, 
their strings. 
ANSWER:  
harpsichord 
080-13-96-08118 
3. On an NFPA label, the square of this color, located on the left, indicates health hazards. Light shining 
through a colloid produces this color in the Tyndall effect. Anhydrous cobalt chloride, used as a desiccant, 
is this color, as is solid hydrated copper nitrate. In basic solutions, bromothymol sulfone phthalein 
(THAY-lean) will turn this color. In a flame test, most alcohols will burn this color. In CPK modeling kits, 
nitrogen is represented with this color. For 10 points, name this color into which litmus paper turns in 
sodium hydroxide or other basic solutions. 
ANSWER:  
blue 
190-13-96-08119 
4. The title character of a novel by this author is taken to Doune (DOON) Castle after being rescued by the 
Mac-Ivor clan. This author’s formerly popular narrative poems include  
The Lady of the Lake 
 and  
Marmion. 
He wrote about Jeanie and Effie Deans in his novel  
The Heart of Midlothian 
 and created Rowena and 
Cedric of Rotherwood in his most famous novel. For 10 points, name this Scottish historical novelist of  
Waverley 
 and  
Ivanhoe. 
ANSWER: Walter  
Scott 
014-13-96-08120 
5. This publication contains such regular features as \"Charlemagne,\" an opinion column on France, and 
\"Bagehot\" (BAA-jet), a column on Britain. This magazine has a longstanding policy of complete editorial 
anonymity, with even editor John Micklethwait's name absent. It was founded by James Wilson in 1843 to 
support the repeal of the Corn Laws. This publication's traditional liberal views led to it being dubbed the 
\"European organ of the aristocracy of finance\" by Karl Marx. For 10 points, name this English publication 
whose title reflects its general interest in monetary policy. 
ANSWER:  
The  Economist 
052-13-96-08121 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  6 of 10 
6. One of this country's Olympic teams was the subject of the film  
Cool Runnings. 
 This country, the 
birthplace of brakeman Lascelles (luh-SELLZ) Brown, was the first tropical state to qualify for an Olympic 
bobsled competition. An unusually high percentage of this country's track and field athletes, including 
Asafa Powell and Veronica Campbell-Brown, tested positive for PEDs in 2013. For 10 points, name this 
Caribbean country, the home of sprinter Usain Bolt. 
ANSWER:  
Jamaica 
131-13-96-08122 
7. This quantity can be calculated as the square root of the ratio of the permittivity to the permittivity of 
free space. A material that is birefringent (BYE-ruh-FRIN-jent) has multiple values for this quantity. Snell's 
law gives the ratio of the angles of incidence as a ratio of this quantity for two mediums. It is equal to the 
ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to that in a particular medium. For 10 points, identify this quantity 
that is important to a phenomenon that makes straws appear bent in water. 
ANSWER:  
index of refraction 
 [or  
refractive index 
] 
226-13-96-08123 
8. A character in this novel lost a baby because a more powerful character refused to pay for milk. In this 
novel, Miss Ophelia teaches Topsy how to read. This novel includes the characters Prue and Sambo. In this 
novel, Tom Loker becomes a changed man after spending time in a Quaker settlement. Its title character 
saves Eva St. Clare from drowning and is whipped to death on the orders of his cruel master, Simon 
Legree. For 10 points, name this anti-slavery novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe. 
ANSWER:  
Uncle Tom's Cabin 
186-13-96-08124 
9. A tribromide of this element converts alcohols into alkyl bromides. A triphenyl ylide (ILL-id) of this 
element is used to convert a ketone into an alkene in the Wittig reaction. The yellow allotrope of this 
element is pyrophoric, although the primary two allotropes of this element are colored red and white. The 
electron transport chain produces a molecule that contains three anions named for this element. For 10 
points, identify this second element in the nitrogen family that is extensively used in fertilizers and has 
atomic symbol P. 
ANSWER:  
phosphorus 
 [or   until read] 
P 
239-13-96-08125 
10. Craig Robinson's guest spot as Doug Judy on this TV show involved him tricking characters into 
thinking his Asian barber is the Pontiac Bandit. \"Mouth feel\" is a component of the pizza rankings sent out 
in e-mail blasts on this show by Boyle, who has a crush on, and takes a bullet for, Diaz. A mental 
breakdown following the birth of Cagney and Lacey occurred for this show's character Terry. In the first 
episode of this show, Peralta finds out that new captain Ray Holt is openly gay. For 10 points, name this 
Fox TV show starring Andy Samberg, about a New York police precinct. 
ANSWER:  
Brooklyn Nine-Nine 
023-13-96-08126 
11. A song about this war begins with a wife noting \"Reuben, Reuben, I've been thinking\" before the 
response \"how ya gonna keep 'em down on the farm?\" A protest song about this war was called \"I Didn't 
Raise My Boy to Be a Soldier.\" A George M. Cohan song about it begins with the lyric \"Johnny, get your 
gun\" and has a chorus noting \"that the Yanks are coming.\" American forces in this war also sang \"It’s a 
Long Way to Tipperary.\" For 10 points, name this war during which the song \"Over There\" was written in 
1917. 
ANSWER:  
World War I 
 [or the  
First World War 
; or the  
Great War 
] 
052-13-96-08127 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  7 of 10 
12. This American city shares its name with a 1939 German ocean liner filled with Jewish refugees that 
was denied entry to the United States. The notoriously poverty ridden Pruitt-Igoe urban renewal project 
was in this city. Dred Scott filed a lawsuit for his freedom from here. Led by the Choteau family for many 
years, this city was the departure point for the Lewis and Clark expedition. The Anheuser-Busch company 
is based here. For 10 points, name this Missouri city which lies directly across the Mississippi River from 
the Cahokia Mounds site. 
ANSWER:  
St. Louis 
052-13-96-08128 
13. In rituals involving these items, the phrase \"l'had'lik neir\" (luh-HOD lick-NAIR) is used. A ritual 
involving two of these items uses one of them to fulfill the commandment \"remember\" and the other to 
fulfill the commandment \"observe.\" A hand is waved over these items and then used to cover the eyes by a 
woman who uses them at the start of Shabbat. In another Jewish holiday, these items include the 
\"shamash,\" and an additional one is used on each of eight days. For 10 points, identify these items which 
are placed in a menorah on Hannukah and lit. 
ANSWER:  
candle 
s 
019-13-96-08129 
14. This construction is generally used only in formal or written French, and is replaced by liberal use of 
\"c'est\" (SEH) or \"ce\" (SUH) to start sentences in most speech. This construction involves the preposition 
\"par\" when there is a specific action expressed, or \"de\" when a more general state of being is involved. This 
construction is formed by conjugating the verb \"être\" (ATE-ruh) with the past participle, which agrees in 
gender and number with the subject. For 10 points, identify this French verb voice which is used to express 
actions done to the subject by an agent. 
ANSWER: French  
passive 
 voice [or la voix  
passive 
] 
019-13-96-08130 
15. A location of this type included the House of Jaguars and the House of Bats. That location of this type 
was filled with obstacles such as a river of blood, a river of scorpions and a river of pus, and was the 
Mayan one, Xibalba (shih-BALL-buh). Aeneas uses the Golden Bough to visit his father Anchises 
(an-KAI-seez) in this location. One of these locations features the pits of Tartarus and the Elysian Fields. 
For 10 points, name this type of mythological region exemplified by Hades. 
ANSWER:  
underworld 
s [or  
hell 
s; or specific sites before they are read, such as  
Xibalba 
 and  
Hades 
] 
186-13-96-08131 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 8 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. In response to Mayor Levi Boone's restrictions on taverns in this city, the 1855 Lager Beer Riot broke 
out. Another of its mayors, Carter Harrison, was assassinated by a failed office seeker. Dr. Henry Howard 
Holmes killed numerous people in this city during a festival. As documented in the book  
The Devil in the 
White City, 
 it hosted the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition. This city suffered a disaster legendarily 
caused by Mrs. O'Leary's cow kicking over a lantern. For 10 points, name this Illinois city severely 
damaged in an 1871 \"great fire.\" 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
052-13-96-08132 
2. A boy assiduously tries to kiss every inch of his body in one of this author's novels, which draws on 
aspects of his commencement speech at Kenyon College and takes place in an IRS office. This author 
wrote about his depressing week aboard a cruise ship in \"A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again.\" 
Prior to his 2008 suicide, this writer published a crowded novel set at the Enfield Tennis Academy, about 
the Incandenza family. For 10 points, name this postmodern author of  
Infinite Jest. 
ANSWER: David Foster  
Wallace 
020-13-96-08133 
3. One type of these events is triggered by a drop in pressure caused by increased pair-production. The 
Phillips relationship describes the light curve of another type of these events, which were used by Reiss and 
Perlmutter to show that the expansion of the universe is accelerating. Yet other types occur after core 
collapse or when a star crosses the Chandrashekar (chohn-druh-shay-KAR) limit. The Crab nebula is the 
remnant of one observed in 1054. For 10 points, name these cosmic events in which a star explodes. 
ANSWER:  
supernova 
e [or  
SN 
] 
048-13-96-08134 
4. A character in this play says that \"the truth is rarely pure and never simple,\" and the observation, \"this 
suspense is terrible, I hope it will last,\" is made in it during a search for birth records. The protagonist of 
this play uses the excuse of visiting an invalid friend named Bunbury to avoid engagements with his aunt, 
Lady Bracknell. In this play, romantic purposes lead both Algernon Moncrieff and Jack Worthing to claim 
the title name. For 10 points, name this comedy by Oscar Wilde. 
ANSWER:  
The  Importance of Being Earnest 
014-13-96-08135 
5. Reference frames that lack this property may be subject to so-called \"fictitious\" forces. Special relativity 
only applies to reference frames with this property, which must be non-accelerating. A rotational quantity 
named for this property is equal to M R-squared for a point mass and is known as its \"moment\". Aristotle 
misunderstood this concept, which allows for objects to keep traveling in straight lines. For 10 points, name 
this topic of Newton's first law, the tendency of a body to resist a change in motion. 
ANSWER:  
inertia 
 [or word forms such as  
inertial 
; prompt on  
non-accelerating 
 until it is read] 
132-13-96-08136 
This is a calculation question. On a three-question multiple choice test, where there are four answer choices 
for each question, you guess randomly. What’s the probability that you get exactly two of them right? 
ANSWER:  
9/64 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  9 of 10 
What Platonic dialogue is a discussion of the nature of love featuring speeches by Eryximachus 
(eh-rick-SIM-uh-kiss) and Aristophanes (ah-ruh-STAH-fuh-neez)? 
ANSWER: the  
Symposium 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2014     8     Page  10 of 10 
