NASAT 2011 
Round 11 
Tossups 
1. This empire was defeated by the Hotaki dynasty at the Battle of Gulnabad. One ruler of this empire was 
Nader Shah, who went on to establish the Afsharid dynasty. The army of this dynasty was reformed and 
improved with help from the Englishman Robert Shirley. This empire was founded with help from the 
red-headdress wearing Qizilbash, and its founder was defeated by Selim the Great of the Ottoman Empire 
at the Battle of Chaldiran. This dynasty had its roots as a religious movement of the Sufi order and they 
made the Twelver movement the official state religion. For 10 points, name this Muslim dynasty of Iran 
from 1501 to 1726 that was started by Shah Ismail I. 
ANSWER:  
Safavid 
 dynasty 
064-11-30-11102 
2. In one short story by this author, Schoner is driven crazy by his commander’s throat and strangles the 
Captain. In another of his works, the protagonist follows Lilly's advice and abandons his family for Italy, 
where he connects with Nan by playing the flute. This author of “The Prussian Officer” wrote a novel in 
which the protagonist gets romantically involved with Miriam Leivers and Clara Dawes and must deal with 
the death of his mother, Gertrude Morel. He wrote a novel in which Ivy Bolton is the nurse to a partially 
paralyzed nobleman, whose wife sleeps with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this 
author of  
Aaron's Rod Sons and Lovers 
,  , and  
Lady Chatterley’s Lover 
. 
ANSWER: D. H.  
Lawrence 
 [or David Herbert Richards  
Lawrence 
] 
094-11-30-11103 
3. According to James Henderson, the lack of frigates made this campaign possible. General Kleber 
surrendered the last remnants of the force used in this event. The phrase that “forty centuries of history 
contemplates you” prefaced a battle during this campaign where squares destroyed attacking cavalry. A 
battle that happened during this campaign saw the defensively placed French fleet trapped between enemy 
lines and the destruction of the ship  
Orient. 
 The Battle of Aboukir Bay occurred during this event, which 
occupied a country that was previously ruled by the Mamluks. For 10 points, name this invasion that saw 
Napoleon win the Battle of the Pyramids. 
ANSWER: Napoleonic French  
conquest of Egypt 
 [accept anything really involving Napoleon or France 
conquering Egypt like the Egyptian Campaign; prompt on any of the battles mentioned ie Pyramids, 
Aboukir Bay, Nile; prompt on militaristic things involving cities in Egypt or Syria] 
107-11-30-11104 
4. This body of water is separated by a spit from the Curonian lagoon, which is at one end of the Sambia 
Peninsula. Islands in this body of water include Muhu, Usedom, and Saaremaa, and part of this body is 
known as the Archipelago Sea because it contains the Aland islands. To the west of this body of water are 
three straits, known as the Great Belt, the Little Belt, and the Oresund. It drains into the Kattegat, and gulfs 
of it include the Gulf of Bothnia and the Gulf of Finland. For 10 points, name this sea which borders 
Sweden and Latvia. 
ANSWER:  
Baltic 
 Sea 
024-11-30-11105 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. Bent’s rule states that atomic orbitals directed towards electronegative groups have this character, and 
part of the derivation of the Lamb shift relies on the fact that the nonrelativistic wave function for these 
entities vanishes at the origin. In crystal field theory, a group of them is labeled t sub 1u. These entities 
generally have n minus 2 radial nodes, and the magnetic quantum numbers of these entities vary from 
negative 1 to 1. They overlap perpendicularly to form pi bonds. They are shaped like dumbbells and are 
mutually perpendicular to each other, intersecting at the origin. They hold 6 electrons. For 10 points, name 
this electronic orbitals that are larger than s and smaller than d orbitals. 
ANSWER:   orbitals 
p 
048-11-30-11106 
6. This thinker wrote a work about the tension between “managerialism” and “socialism” and in another 
book discusses the idea of “countervailing power,” arguing organized labor and the federal government 
will replace free market competition as the primary check on corporate power. This economist asserted that 
large companies have made perfect competition impossible because the rules of supply and demand have 
been undermined by the use of advertising in his book  
 The New Industrial State 
. His best-known work 
outlines the “dependence effect” and discusses the emergence of the private sector in America after World 
War II. For 10 points, name this economist who coined the term “conventional wisdom” in  
The Affluent 
Society 
. 
ANSWER: John Kenneth  
Galbraith 
109-11-30-11107 
7. The causative agent of Dutch elm disease belongs in this phylum, as does the causative agents of 
sporotrichosis, blastomycosis, and histoplasmosis. One organism in this phylum infects ants’ brains and 
grows out of their heads; that species is named Chordyceps. Candida albicans, a member of this phylum, 
causes yeast infections, and these organisms reproduceby plasmogamy followed by delayed fusion of the 
paired nuclei, though some reproduce asexually. This phylum gets its name from the fruiting bodies 
containing its spores. Like others in their kingdom, their bodies contain hyphae which form a mycelium, 
and familiar members include brewer’s yeast and baker’s yeast. For 10 points, name this phylum of fungi, 
sometimes called sac fungi. 
ANSWER:  
Ascomycota 
 [or  
Sac Fungi 
 before mentioned] 
048-11-30-11108 
8. One of this author’s works argues that “political emancipation” is compatible with religion, but blocks 
the fulfillment of “human emancipation.” In another of his works, he developed his theory of “base and 
superstructure.” This opponent of Bruno Bauer wrote that “Philosophers have only interpreted the world; 
the point is to change it” in his  
Theses on Feuerbach 
, as well as writing  
On the Jewish Question 
. Another 
of his works argues that a commodity attains value through the amount of labour put into it. For 10 points, 
name this German philosopher who, along with Engels, wrote  
Das Kapital 
. 
ANSWER: Karl  
Marx 
080-11-30-11109 
9. A pizzicato variation in this piece represents the central character's triumph. Composed at Villa Senar 
two years before its composer's third symphony, it begins with a variation unusually played before the 
strings play its main theme. Sometimes considered its composer's fifth piano concerto, it introduces the 
Dies Irae in its seventh and eleventh variations, and inverts the main theme from A minor to D flat major in 
its andante cantabile 18th variation. Composed in 1934, it is based on another composer's twenty-fourth 
violin caprice. For 10 points, name this orchestral work by Sergei Rachmaninoff titled for a legendary 
Italian violinist. 
ANSWER:  
Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini 
004-11-30-11110 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. The title character of Kathy Acker’s rewriting of this work is a woman who wanders New York with a 
talking dog named St. Simeon. Charlotte Lennox is best known for a novel that recasts the protagonist of 
his work as a woman. The plot of Shakespeare’s lost play  
Cardenio 
 is believed to have been inspired by 
Thomas Shelton’s translation of this work. One version of this work is deemed to be much more significant 
that the original because it was written and read with the events of the 18th and 19th centuries in mind. 
That version is recreated line for line by Pierre Menard in a Borges story. For 10 points, name this 
foundational Spanish novel about a mad knight and his squire Sancho Panza. 
ANSWER:  
Don Quixote 
015-11-30-11111 
11. Thirty-four of these works lack titles, and are traditionally known as “orphans.” A number of these 
works are “acrostics,” in which successive lines begin with successive letters of the alphabet. One of these 
works requests, “If I forget thee…may my right hand forget its skill,” and begins “By the rivers of Babylon 
we sat and wept.” The most famous of these works describes walking through “the valley of the shadow of 
death” and begins, “The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.” For 10 points, name these 150 poems in 
the Old Testament, traditionally attributed to David. 
ANSWER: the  
Psalms 
 [or  
tehillim 
] 
080-11-30-11112 
12. The Producer-Consumer problem arises when multiple threads try to access one of these of bounded or 
unbounded size. Two or three pointers are usually used when using an array to create a ring or circular one 
of these. Depth information for a 3D scene can be stored in a z one. In many computer graphics paradigms 
like OpenGl, the final store of the generated image is known as the frame one. TCP has the receiver 
communicate its window size based on the current capacity of one of these. Many security flaws in 
programs result from overflows in data structures used as these. For 10 points, name this temporary store of 
moving data, used in online videos streaming to mitigate temporary slowdowns in download speed. 
ANSWER:  
buffer 
s [or  
buffering 
] 
001-11-30-11113 
13. This politician gained the leadership of his party in a a three way election over his predecessor and 
Michael Heseltine. The term “Shy Tory Factor” was coined during an election in which this man surprised 
pollsters by defeating Neil Kinnock. He replaced his predecessor’s wildly unpopular Community Charge to 
fund local governments. This PM’s other actions included withdrawing the Pound from the ERM, signing 
the Maastricht Treaty, and overseeing British involvement in the Gulf War. He was replaced by the “New 
Labour” Party under Tony Blair. For 10 points, name this Conservative politician who led the UK through 
most of the 90s. 
ANSWER: John  
Major 
015-11-30-11114 
14. This woman’s father was himself the son of Procas. She was punished by her uncle by being buried 
alive but her children were saved by the river god. This woman was the daughter of King Numitor of Alba; 
Numitor was later overthrown by his brother Amulius who forced this woman to become a vestal virgin. 
Despite that, she was impregnated by Mars and subsequently had her children raised by Acca Larentia and 
the shepherd god Faustulus. This occurred after her children were given away by her husband Tiberinus to 
be suckled by Lupa, a she-wolf. For 10 points, name this mythical mother of Romulus and Remus. 
ANSWER:  
Rhea Silvia 
064-11-30-11115 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. This politician displayed a picture of a Mexican man living in a box on a Larry King interview in which 
he repeatedly asked his opponent to “let me finish.” He was criticized for repeatedly using the phrase “you 
people” during a speech to the NAACP. In one campaign, his vice-presidential nominee James Stockdale 
asked “Who am I? Why am I here?” during a debate. This creator of the Reform Party discussed the “giant 
sucking sound” that NAFTA would create. He was largely funded by the personal fortune he acquired from 
founding the Texas technology company Electronic Data Systems. For 10 points, name this politician who 
had some success as a third party candidate in 1992 and 1996. 
ANSWER: Henry Ross  
Perot 
015-11-30-11116 
16. The ratio of two types of this property equals the product of the Lorenz number and temperature by the 
Wiedemann-Franz Law. The first of those types is, for phonons, equal to one-third times the specific heat 
per unit volume times the velocity times the average mean free path; it is also the coefficient of 
proportionality in Fourier's Law. At a fixed temperature, the second of those types is equal to the length 
divided by the product of the cross-sectional area and resistance, or alternatively, one over the resistivity. 
For 10 points, thermal and electrical are two types of what property of a material, the degree to which it 
allows heat or current to pass through it? 
ANSWER:  
conductivity 
 [accept  
thermal conductivity 
 or  
electrical conductivity 
; prompt on  
kappa 
; 
prompt on  ; prompt on  
k sigma 
] 
003-11-30-11117 
17. This film was based on a novel written specifically for its director by Pierre Boileau and Thomas 
Narcejac. One character in this film discusses a bra that works on the same principles as a cantilevered 
bridge. The European version of this film includes a tacked-on ending where a radio broadcast reveals the 
arrest of Gavin Elster. This film's main character retires as a policeman after watching another officer fall 
to his death; that character's obsession with Carlotta Valdes leads to him forcing Kim Novak's character 
Judy Barton to change her appearance to match that of Madeleine Elster. For 10 points, name this Alfred 
Hitchcock film in which James Stewart's character is afraid of heights. 
ANSWER:  
Vertigo 
088-11-30-11118 
18. This author wrote \"I don't feel good don't bother me\" in a poem that claims, \"I've given you all and now 
I'm nothing.\" He wrote the lines, \"It's not a God that bore us that forbid our Being\" in another poem, and 
claimed \"we're not our skin of grime\" in a poem that begins, \"I walked on the banks of the tincan banana 
dock.\" He also wrote a poem that contains the lines, \"No flower like that flower, which knew itself in the 
garden, and fought the knife\". This author of \"Wichita Vortex Sutra\" and \"Sunflower Sutra\" wrote the lines, 
\"Strange now to think of you, gone without corsets and eyes\" in his \"Kaddish.\" For 10 points, name this 
poet who wrote, \"I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness\" in his poem \"Howl.\" 
ANSWER: Allen  
Ginsberg 
095-11-30-11119 
19. This artist included scenes like  
The Death of Ananias 
 and  
The Miraculous Draught of Fishes 
 in a series 
of cartoons meant to be the designs of tapestries for the Sistine Chapel. He depicted John the Baptist 
holding a cross to Jesus in his  
Alba Madonna 
, and painted a nymph riding a shell pulled by dolphins in  
Triumph of Galatea 
. Giulio Romano completed this artist's final work, a depiction of the transfiguration in 
which Christ floats against eerie blue light. The Sala di Costantino and the Stanza della Segnatura are 
among this artist's namesake rooms in the Palace of the Vatican, which include his depictions Zeno of 
Citium, Plato, and Socrates. For 10 points, name this artist who created  
The School of Athens 
. 
ANSWER:  
Raphael 
088-11-30-11120 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. This author wrote about Mendel trying to gather enough money to buy a train ticket for his retarded 
39-year old son Isaac before midnight in his story “Idiots First”. The protagonist of another novel prevents 
Ward Minogue from raping Helen Bober in a park only to rape her himself. This author wrote a novel in 
which Frank Alpine starts to work Morris Bober’s grocery store after robbing it, while another book 
centers on a man falsely accused of the ritualistic murder of a Christian child during Passover. This 
author’s first book centers on the rival of Bump Bailey who shatters his lucky bat called \"Wonderboy.\" For 
10 points, this Jewish author of  
The Fixer 
 who wrote about Roy Hobbs in  
The Natural 
. 
ANSWER: Bernard  
Malamud 
088-11-30-11121 
21. State functions like pressure, volume, and temperature are often normalized to a “reduced” form based 
on their values at this point, which can calculated using the Joback and Lydersen methods. Below this 
point, the Van der Waals equation gives a region where pressure increases as volume increases; that 
problem is fixed with the Maxwell isotherm. According to the Guldberg rule, a liquid’s boiling point is 
about two thirds its temperature at this point. Above this point, carbon dioxide is often used as a green 
alternative method to remove caffeine from coffee. This point is also characterized by a nearly vertical line 
on a phase diagram. For 10 points, name this point seen on a phase diagram at which a liquid and gas cease 
to be separate phases. 
ANSWER:  
critical 
 point [or  
critical 
 temperature] 
064-11-30-11122 
22. This organization was a party to the treaty of Tongsberg, where it resolved a conflict with Eric the 
Priest-Hater. It originally encouraged the privateering activities of the Victual Brothers. At the city of 
Novgorod, this group established a  
kontor, 
 while a similar post was at the Steelyard in London. As this 
group's power waned, its sphere of influence was limited to its capital, Lubeck. For 10 points, name this 
Northern European trading league established during the late Middle Ages. 
ANSWER:  
Hanseatic 
 League or  
Hansa 
081-11-30-11123 
23. A Muslim man from Dongbei named Ma Shang arrives in a Beijing hair salon in a recent Chinese 
adaptation of this play. In the first act, it’s revealed that Philly Cullen is attending the wake of Kate 
Cassidy. Later, the title character wins a mule race. The title of this play derives from the name given to the 
protagonist by a former lover of Shawn Keogh. The protagonist’s line about \"a drift of Mayo girls” excited 
a vitriolic audience reaction at its premiere. At the conclusion of this play, the title character is untied from 
his noose after his father, whom he twice seemingly killed, is found to be alive. Centering on the stories 
told by the young Irishman Christy Mahon, for 10 points, what is this J. M. Synge play? 
ANSWER:  
The  Playboy of the Western World 
094-11-30-11124 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 11 
Bonuses 
1. One possible candidate from this state for the 2012 presidential election is former Democrat Ole Savior. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this state that will also be represented in the Republican primaries by former governor Tim 
Pawlenty and possibly by Representative Michelle Bachmann. 
ANSWER:  
Minnesota 
[10] This New York candidate received a lot of attention in 2010 when this man ran for Governor of New 
York on the Rent Is Too Damn High ticket. 
ANSWER: Jimmy  
McMillan 
 [or James  
McMillan 
 III] 
[10] This former New Mexico governor, drug legalization advocate, and 2012 hopeful received the 
nickname “Governor Veto” after he vetoed almost fifty percent of bills passed during his first six months in 
office. 
ANSWER: Gary Earl  
Johnson 
023-11-30-11201 
2. Members of this party included Alexander Hamilton and John Adams. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this early political party that often feuded with Thomas Jefferson's Democratic-Republicans. 
ANSWER:  
Federalist 
 Party 
[10] This series of Federalist meetings during the War of 1812, named for a certain New England city, saw 
discussion of New England states' secession from the union. This event ultimately disgraced the Federalists 
and led them to disband. 
ANSWER:  
Hartford Convention 
[10] This Federalist received a substantial share of the votes in the 1812 presidential election, though he 
lost to Madison. He was also governor of New York and he pushed for the construction of the Erie Canal. 
ANSWER:  eWitt  
D Clinton 
 [prompt on  
Clinton 
] 
081-11-30-11202 
3. He painted a boy with his head on his hand in  
Boy in the Red Vest 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Post-Impressionist painter of  
The Bathers 
 and various still lifes of fruit. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Cezanne 
[10] Cezanne painted this Provencal mountain from many angles and lights. 
ANSWER: Mont  
Sainte-Victoire 
[10] Cezanne painted a bald man with a riding crop observing the title figure in a \"modern\" update of this 
painting by another artist. 
ANSWER:  
Olympia 
015-11-30-11203 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Devices used in versions of this technique include Paschen-Runge mounting, collimators, and 
monochromators. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this broad class of analytical techniques, whose molecular subclass makes use of different 
electronic and vibrational transitions in molecules. 
ANSWER:  
spectroscopy 
[10] The atomizers used in atomic absorption spectroscopy are mostly electrothermal atomizers or 
atomizers that use these. Tests using these distinguish metals based on the colors given off. For example, 
strontium is red. 
ANSWER:  
flame 
 [or  
fire 
] 
[10] AAS spectra are subject to this class of effects, including the pressure type from atomic collisions and 
the Doppler type from random motions between the atoms and the detector. 
ANSWER:  
broadening 
001-11-30-11204 
5. This white region of the sun can be seen during a solar eclipse. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this region of the sun that is often said to be its “atmosphere.” It is hotter than the 
photosphere, and lies between said photosphere and the chromosphere. 
ANSWER:  
corona 
[10] This physicist also names some of the spectral lines in the sun’s spectrum, though he is better known 
for naming the far field diffraction limit governed by an aperture’s size squared over the distance and 
wavelength. 
ANSWER: Joseph von  
Fraunhofer 
[10] These are aggregates of cool gas and plasma held up above the sun by magnetic fields. 
ANSWER: solar  
filament 
 [or solar  
prominence 
] 
033-11-30-11205 
6. In this novel, Blue, a radical Muslim, is killed by police, possibly after Ka tells them where he is hiding. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel, in which Kadife removes her head-scarf while acting in a televised adaptation of 
Thomas Kyd's  
The Spanish Tragedy 
. 
ANSWER:  
Snow 
 [or  
Kar 
] 
[10]  
Snow 
 was written by this Turkish author, who also wrote  
The Black Book 
 and  
My Name Is Red 
. 
ANSWER: Ferit Orhan  
Pamuk 
[10] In 2005, Pamuk was charged for violating this law which bans discussing the genocide of Armenians 
that occurred in Turkey; the charges were later dropped. 
ANSWER:  
Article 301 
088-11-30-11206 
7. HJ Blumenthal wrote about this thinker's work in his study  
 Soul and Intellect  
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this student of Ammonius Saccas whose major work synthesized the thought of Aristotle with 
his concept of the emanation and irradation of \"Divine Names.\" 
ANSWER:  
Plotinus 
[10] Plotinus, along with Porphyry and Iamblichus were members of this philosophical movement that 
mixed elements of mysticism and pagan thought into the ideas of the author of  
 The Republic  
. 
ANSWER:  
Neoplatonism 
[10] Pico della Mirandolla attempted to syncretize Christianity, Kabbalah, Neoplatonism and Gnosticism in 
this work, which posits that \"man … can become a rock … or an angel.\" 
ANSWER: \"Oration  
on the Dignity of Man 
\" [or  
De hominis dignitate 
] 
033-11-30-11207 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. A follow-up to this study looking at the “other side” of the title place explored the community activities 
of African Americans. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this “Study in Modern American Culture” which looked at residents of a town thinly 
disguised as the title average American place. 
ANSWER:  
Middletown 
 Studies 
[10] The Middletown study was conducted by a husband and wife team of sociologists with this surname. 
ANSWER:  
Lynd 
[10] The Middletown studies were based on the real town of Muncie, found in this state. 
ANSWER:  
Indiana 
094-11-30-11208 
9. This country had its capital at Bonn and had an “economic miracle” after World War II. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this country which unified with its neighbor shortly after the collapse of the Berlin Wall. 
ANSWER:  
West Germany 
[10] This Chancellor of West Germany won a Nobel Prize for his policy of reconciliation called Ostpolitik, 
but was forced to resign in 1974. 
ANSWER: Willy  
Brandt 
[10] Brandt resigned when it was discovered that this aide of his was a spy for the Stasi, the East German 
secret police. 
ANSWER: Gunter  
Guillaume 
015-11-30-11209 
10. The kinematic type of this property is equal to the dynamic type over the density. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this measure of a fluid's resistance to flow. 
ANSWER:  
viscosity 
[10] This adjective describes fluids for which the viscosity is constant with respect to time and shear rate. 
ANSWER:  
Newtonian 
 fluids 
[10] In this type of non-Newtonian fluid, the viscosity decreases over time as a constant shear rate is 
applied. 
ANSWER:  
thixotropic 
 fluids [or  
thixotropy 
] 
003-11-30-11210 
11. Its center contains an Andrea Orcagna tabernacle. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this structure in Florence that used to be a granary. The works of Nanni di Banco can be found 
here because every major Florentine guild was commissioned to place an artwork here. 
ANSWER:  
Orsanmichele 
[10] This man sculpted a statue of St. Thomas for the Orsanmichele, though he is better known for his 
equestrian statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni. He was the teacher of Leonardo da Vinci. 
ANSWER: Andrea del  
Verocchio 
[10] Another sculpture in the Orsanmichele was done by this Italian artist who won the contest to design 
the Florentine  
 Gates of Paradise. 
ANSWER: Lorenzo  
Ghiberti 
033-11-30-11211 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. The beginning of this text describes God as “Maker of all things visible and invisible.” For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this profession of faith, named for the 325 CE ecumenical council at which it was originally 
adopted. 
ANSWER:  
Nicene 
 Creed 
[10] This Latin word, meaning “and from the Son,” was added to the Nicene Creed at the First Council of 
Toledo, and its inclusion is a continuing source of controversy. 
ANSWER:  
filioque 
[10] The filioque cause was a contributing factor in the East-West Schism, as was the authority of this see, 
which was nicknamed New Rome. 
ANSWER:  
Constantinople 
024-11-30-11212 
13. One of these works claims that \"Man, who is the noblest part of the Earth, melts so away, as if he were 
a statue.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this twenty-three part work divided into meditations such as the 17th, which proclaims that 
\"no man is an island\" and warns you to \"never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee.\" 
ANSWER:  
Devotions upon Emergent Occasions 
[10]  
Devotions upon Emergent Occasions 
 was written by this author of a defense of suicide,  
Biathanatos 
, 
and the conceit-laden \"A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning.\" 
ANSWER: John  
Donne 
[10] Donne's poem that asks \"If poisonous minerals, and if that tree... cannot be damn'd, alas, why should I 
be?\" is part of this collection, whose tenth entry opens \"Death, be not proud.\" 
ANSWER:  
Holy Sonnets 
020-11-30-11213 
14. This hero had to capture Proteus to find out how to return home. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this king of Sparta and husband of Helen, the brother of Agamemnon in the  
Iliad 
. 
ANSWER:  
Menelaus 
[10] Menelaus and Agamemnon were the sons of this king, who took his throne back from Thyestes when 
Zeus made the sun run backwards. 
ANSWER:  
Atreus 
[10] In one version of the story, Menelaus finds that Helen never actually went to Troy, but spent the entire 
time of the war in this land. Menelaus is stranded in this land when he goes to the island of Pharos to find 
Proteus. 
ANSWER:  
Egypt 
 [or  
Aigyptos 
] 
080-11-30-11214 
15. The captured slave Tecmessa begs the title character not to abandon her. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play whose title warrior commits suicide after Athena places a spell on him that compels 
him to slaughter all the Greek livestock. 
ANSWER:  
Ajax 
[10]  
Ajax 
 is a play by this ancient Greek dramatist who wrote about a man who is abandoned on Lemnos in  
Philoctetes 
, but is best known for a trilogy of plays about Oedipus. 
ANSWER:  
Sophocles 
[10] In Sophocles'  
Antigone 
, Creon orders that this nephew of his go unburied under penalty of death. 
ANSWER:  
Polynices 
088-11-30-11215 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. Senator Simpson and Edward Strobik work to get him imprisoned as the scapegoat for a political 
embezzlement scheme. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who becomes a millionaire as the leader of the Chicago transportation system and 
leaves his wife Aileen Butler for the younger Berenice Fleming. He is the protagonist of the  
Trilogy of 
Desire 
. 
ANSWER: Frank  
Cowperwood 
 [or  
Frank 
 Cowperwood] 
[10] Name this author, who wrote about Frank Cowperwood in  
The Financier 
 and  
The Titan 
, and who also 
described Clyde Griffiths in  
An American Tragedy 
. 
ANSWER: Theodore  
Dreiser 
[10] In  
Sister Carrie 
, the title character marries this man when he embezzles thousands of dollars from the 
bar Fitzgerald and Moy's. He ultimately commits suicide after he becomes homeless when Carrie abandons 
him. 
ANSWER:  
George 
 Hurstwood [or  
Hurstwood 
] 
015-11-30-11216 
17. One king of this line was so insane that he spend the Second Battle of St. Albans laughing wildly under 
a tree. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this dynasty of Henry VI, which fought the Yorkists in the Wars of the Roses. 
ANSWER:  
Lancaster 
 [or  
Lancastrians 
] 
[10] The House of Lancaster was founded by this third son of Edward III and Philippa of Hainault. He held 
a lot of power during the reign of Richard II and got his nickname from being born in Ghent. 
ANSWER:  
John of Gaunt 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
[10] John of Gaunt married Constance, the daughter of a monarch of this name known as “the Cruel.” A 
14th century war between Aragon and Castile was named for the fact that all its combatants bore this name. 
ANSWER:  
Pedro 
 [or  
Peter 
] 
015-11-30-11217 
18. Name some things from the history of Pakistan, for 10 points each. 
[10] This leader of the Muslim League became the first head of Pakistan after partition. 
ANSWER: Muhammad Ali  
Jinnah 
[10] This president came to power through a 1999 coup against Nawaz Sharif and led Pakistan until 2008. 
ANSWER: Pervez  
Musharraf 
[10] Musharraf may have been to blame for the Pakistani infiltration of Kashmir that served as the cause of 
this 1999 conflict, known to some as Operation Vijay. 
ANSWER:  
Kargil 
 War 
015-11-30-11218 
19. This composer’s E-flat 39th symphony, his “Great G minor symphony,” and his last symphony are 
sometimes performed as a trilogy. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Austrian whose chamber music includes  
Eine kleine Nachtmusik 
 and whose operas include  
The Magic Flute 
. 
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
[10] This forty-first and last symphony of Mozart includes an influential five voice fugato in its Molto 
allegro fourth movement. Its nickname was coined by Johann Peter Saloman. 
ANSWER:  
Jupiter 
 symphony 
[10] Mozart replaced the original 6/8 Andatino second movement of this symphony with a more standard 
3/4 andante. It was written while he was looking for a job in a European capital. 
ANSWER: Symphony No.  
31 
 [or  
Paris Symphony 
] 
015-11-30-11219 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. A common mutation of this protein replaces the serine at position 65 with a threonine. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this protein isolated from jellyfish in the 1960’s, which as its name suggests emits light at about 
509 nm. 
ANSWER:  
green fluorescent protein 
 [or  
GFP 
] 
[10] The fluorophore of wild type GFP consists of a serine, tyrosine, and this lightest amino acid that 
consists only of a hydrogen side chain. 
ANSWER:  
glycine 
 [or  ly] 
G 
[10] The luminescent properties of a firefly are derived from this class of enzyme which catalyzes an 
oxidation reaction that produces light. Renilla also produces it. 
ANSWER:  
luciferase 
064-11-30-11220 
21. Examples of these formations in the U.S. include Enchanted Rock and Stone Mountain. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name these formations of igneous intrusive rock that are a type of pluton. 
ANSWER:  
batholiths 
[10] Within plutons can be found much of this type of igneous rock, the most common in the continental 
crust, whose extrusive equivalent is rhyolite. 
ANSWER:  
granite 
[10] The percent of the rock that is alkali feldspar and this mineral serve to define granite. 
ANSWER:  
quartz 
 [or  
silica 
; or  
SiO2 
] 
081-11-30-11221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 11     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
