2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 1 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
ACF-Format Set #3  
Round 9  
Tossups  
1. The Carnarvon Range is a plateau region of this larger mountain range that reaches its  
northernmost point on the Cape York Peninsula. The Lachlan and Darling rivers flow down this range’s  
western slope before joining the (*)  Murray River, and this range contains Mount Kosciusko. This range  
terminates at Grampians in Victoria prior to reemerging across the Bass Strait in Tasmania. For 10  
points, name this mountain range containing the Australian Alps that is located along the eastern coast  
of Australia.    
ANSWER:  Great Dividing Range 
 [or  Great Divide ; or  Eastern Highlands ; or  Eastern Cordillera ]  
2. A satrap of this name fought a power struggle with Tissaphernes before dying at the Battle of  
Cunaxa as described in the  Anabasis  of Xenophon. That younger brother of Artaxerxes II was known  
as “the Younger0” while another man with this name fought against (*)    Nabonidus and was King of  
Anshan. That man built Pasargadae after overthrowing the Medes, and was succeeded by his son  
Cambyses II, and eventually by Darius the Great.  For 10 points, name the man who brought the  
Achaemenid Dynasty to power by founding the Persian Empire.  
ANSWER:  Cyrus 
 [or  Cyrus the Younger ; or  Cyrus II ; or  Cyrus the Great ]  
3. One of his poems discusses a “blood red thing that writhes from out” and ends with the assertion  
that “the play is the tragedy0 ‘Man.’” Another of his poems tells of a “gallant knight” who “had  
journeyed long 6 singing a song” and grows old before learning that the title place is “over the (*)    
mountains of the moon.” In another poem, a wind from a cloud kills the title character in a “kingdom by  
the sea,” and in yet another, a bird is perched on a pallid bust of Pallas. For 10 points, name this  
American poet of “The Conqueror Worm,” “Annabel Lee,” and “The Raven.”  
ANSWER: Edgar Allen  Poe  
7. Antonio and Louisa ask for Don Jerome9s blessing at the end of this man9s opera  Betrothal in a  
Monastery 0 and he also composed  The Fiery Angel . Another opera by this composer is based on a play  
by Carlo Gozzi and features the hypochondriac son of the King of (*)    Clubs. Another of this man’s works  
features a dialogue between a duck and the title character, represented by an oboe and the strings,  
respectively. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of  The Love for Three Oranges , whose other  
works include the  Classical Symphony  and  Peter and the Wolf .  
ANSWER: Sergei  Prokofiev  
<. This thinker outlined the formation of a global republic in his work  Perpetual Peace 0 while he  
defended against attacks on his most famous work in his  Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics . He  
divided all objects into a phenomenon and noumenon0 with the latter being associated with the (*)  
“thing6in6itself,” and asserted that everyone should act only in such a way that they could will it to  
become a universal law, a maxim known as the categorical imperative. For 10 points, name this German  
philosopher of  Critique of Pure Reason .  
ANSWER: Immanuel  Kant 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 2 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
=. Stories about this figure are collected in the  Harivamsa 0 which tells how King Kamsa attempted to  
kill all the children of Devaki. This figure escaped to Gokula0 where he was raised by Yasod and Nanda  
among the  gopis 0 or (*)  cowherds, loyal to this deity. Preceded by Rama and succeeded by Buddha as an  
avatar of Vishnu, this god serves as the charioteer for Arjuna in the Mahabharata. In that role, he  
narrates the Bhagavad6Gita. For 10 points, name this blue6skinned god, the namesake of the  
proselytizing “Hare” ;HAH6ray< sect.  
ANSWER:  Krishna  
@. One character in this novel is ashamed that he drank too much punch at a party in Vauxhall. One of  
the central characters carries on an affair with Lord Steyne. The Duchess of Richmond gives a fantastic  
ball in Brussels in this work0 which sees Jos (JOZE) mysteriously die in AixClaCchappelle after taking out  
an insurance policy. George (*)    Osborne dies at Waterloo after marrying a former student of the  
Pinkerton School for Girls in this work. For 10 points, name this novel about Amelia Sedley and Becky  
Sharp, by William Thackeray.  
ANSWER:  Vanity Fair 
D. A simplification of this law for an ion that is brought from infinity and placed within a crystal lattice  
is seen in the portion of the BornCLandé equation that incorporates Madelung constants. Electron  
pairing energy is given by the exchange energy and the repulsion between spinCpaired (*)    electrons  
that this law predicts. It contains a namesake constant that incorporates the permittivity of space, and it  
can be used to explain why like charges repel. For 10 points, name this law in which the force and  
distance between two point charges share an inverse square relationship.    
ANSWER:  Coulomb 
’s law  
G. Early foreboding signs in this novel include a painting in the Spouter Inn and a sermon by Hather  
Mapple. One character discards a threeCpart prophesy given by a man with a braided beard0 Parsee  
Hedallah. This novel includes Pip and (*)    Stubb, and opens in New Bedford, where its protagonist meets  
a prince of Kokovoko with an idol named Yojo, the harpooner Queequeg. For 10 points, name this novel  
narrated by Ishmael that describes Captain Ahab’s monomaniacal chase of the title white whale, a work  
of Herman Melville.  
ANSWER:  Moby-Dick 
1I. This work contains excerpts from the text  In My Father’s House  by Princess Irulan and its central  
family is betrayed by the Suk Doctor Wellington Yueh. The Ginaz swordsman Duncan Idaho dies  
during a raid of Empirial Sardaukar0 but his reincarnated (*)    ghola is revealed to be the true Kwisatz  
Haderach sought by the Bene Gesserit. Its main characters include Lady Jessica and her son Paul  
Atreides, who settle on the titular planet, Arrakis. For 10 points, name this science fiction novel that  
centers on the spice produced by giant sandworms, a work by Frank Herbert.  
ANSWER:  Dune  
11. Ducts in this organ become inflamed in primary sclerosing cholangitis. Glisson’s capsule surrounds  
this organ0 and two of its sections are separated by the falciform ligament. People with Wilson’s  
disease cannot excrete copper properly from this organ0 and it features starCshaped cells responsible  
for removing particulate (*)    contaminants from blood known as Kuppfer cells. Other functions include  
the storing of iron. Jaundice, cirrhosis, and hepatitis are diseases of this organ that secretes bile. For 10  
points, name this largest organ inside the human body.  
ANSWER:  liver 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 3 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
12. A tropical waterfall dominates Hrederic Church’s  The Heart of the Andes 0 a painting from an  
offshoot of this movement0 Luminism. One member of this group painted    The Savage State  and  
Desolation  for the fiveCpart  Course of Empire  series. Another member of this school depicted (*)    
William Cullen Bryant and another painter in the Catskills in the work  Kindred Spirits . For 10 points,  
name this group of American landscape artists that included Asher Durand and Thomas Cole, named for  
the New York area they often painted.  
ANSWER:  Hudson River 
 School [accept  Luminism , early]  
13. Suetonius claimed that this man’s last words were0 “Damn0 I think I am becoming a god.” As  
commander of the Legio II Augusta0 this man captured the Isle of Wight. He closed the gates to the  
temple of Janus and built the temple of Pax0 and he had previously put down the (*)    Jewish rebellion  
in Judea. He oversaw the construction of the Coliseum, and he was the father of Domitian and Titus. For  
10 points, name this man who came to power during the Year of the Four Emperors, the founder of the  
Flavian Dynasty.  
ANSWER:  Vespasian 
 [or Titus Flavius  Vespasian us]  
17. This author of  Treatise on Probability  promoted “compulsory saving” to prevent inflation in his  
How to Pay for the War 0 and warned that excessive reparations against Germany following World War  
I would be disastrous in his  The Economic Consequences  (*)  of the Peace . He also wrote about the  
multiplier effect and aggregate demand in a work arguing that governments should operate under  
deficits when the economy is slow. For 10 points, name this author of  The General Theory of  
Employment, Interest, and Money , a British economist.  
ANSWER: John Maynard  Keynes 
1<. This composer wrote a work that includes a trio sonata for flute0 violin0 and continuo and a sixC 
part ricercare based on a theme by Hrederick the Great. This composer of the  Musical Offering   
included the movement “O Haupt voll Blut und Wunden” in his (*)  St. Matthew Passion . He composed  
two sets of twenty6four preludes and fugues in each key,  The Well-Tempered Clavier , and wrote a series  
of six concertos dedicated to a Margrave. For 10 points, name this German Baroque composer of  The  
Brandenburg Concertos .  
ANSWER:  J 
ohann  ebastian  S Bach  [prompt on  Bach ]  
1=. Selectivity coefficients for these devices give their relative responsivity to different analyte ions.  
IonCselective ones can have crystalline or noncrystalline membranes0 and glass pH meters possess a  
silver and silver chloride reference device of this type. (*)  Reduction potentials are typically given with  
respect to the standard hydrogen type of this device, and other standards include the calomel type of  
this device. For 10 points, name these devices at which oxidation and reduction occur, termed anodes  
when they gain electrons and cathodes when they lose electrons.  
ANSWER:  electrode 
1@. One member of this group names a law that all members of the group follow0 specifying that  
lamellar crystal twins are formed in stacks. That member0 albite0 falls with anorthite and oligoclase    
into one variety of this group0 while the most prominent member of its other group is (*)    orthoclase. It  
is classified around six on the Mohs scale, and all examples are aluminum6containing silicate minerals.  
For 10 points, name this group of minerals, classified into potassium and plagioclase varieties, the most  
abundant mineral group on Earth.  
ANSWER:  feldspar 
s 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 4 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1D. The father of this work’s protagonist gets a job as a bank guard0 and the central family moves to a  
smaller apartment after three bearded boarders leave. The main character’s sister aspires to be a  
violinist0 and the protagonist of this work catches the five AM train every morning to work as a  
salesman to pay off his (*)  father’s debt. The protagonist eventually dies after an apple thrown by his  
father becomes lodged in his back. For 10 points, name this novella in which Gregor Samsa is changed  
into a bug, a work of Franz Kafka.  
ANSWER:  The  Metamorphosis 
 [or  Die  Verwandlung ]  
1G. This city9s independence was recognized in the 11D3 Peace of Constance0 and Napoleon made it  
the capital of the Cisalpine Republic in 1@G@. Hrom 3I< to 7I2 CE0 it served as the capital of the  
Western Roman Empire0 and it was destroyed in 11D3 by Hrederick I. Its namesake (*)    edict from  
Constantine I granted religious toleration, and it was plagued by the feud of the Guelfs and Ghibellines.  
For 10 points, name this northern Italian city that was ruled from 1AB0 to 1BCB by the Sforza family.  
ANSWER:  Milan 
 [or  Milano ]  
2I. In one of them0 their speaker noted that “the arc of the moral universe...bends toward justice.” In  
another0 the speaker claimed that the U.S. government was “the greatest purveyor of violence in the  
world today.” In addition to “How Long0 Not Long” and one called “Beyond Vietnam0” one of them  
quotes the  Battle Hymn of the Republic  in support of (*)    sanitation works and is titled “I’ve been to the  
mountaintop.” Another of them seeks judgment by the content of character and exalts “Let freedom  
ringD” and “Free at lastD” For 10 points, name these orations, exemplified by “I have a dream.”  
ANSWER:  speech 
es of Martin Luther  King , Jr. [accept clear equivalents]  
21. A. D. Hortes claims that an ammoniaCwater ocean under the ice on this body is capable of  
sustaining life. Heatures on it include a cryovolcanic dome known as Ganesa Macula0 a dark region  
known as ShangriCla0 and a reflective region known as (*)    Xanadu. In F00B, the Huygens probe landed  
on the surface of this body. It is the only moon known to have clouds and a planet6like atmosphere. For  
10 points, name this second6largest moon in the solar system, the largest moon of Saturn.  
ANSWER:  Titan  
22. This man served as finance minister for Arthur Griffith0 and he became Sinn Hein9s first minister of  
home affairs. He arranged for Eamon De Valera9s escape from Lincoln jail in 1G1G0 and0 as the director  
of intelligence for the IRA0 he directed guerilla war against British forces. In 1G210 he negotiated the  
truce that gave Ireland (*)    dominion status, but provisions requiring an oath to the crown and the  
partitioning of Ulster led to his death. For 10 points, name this leader of the Irish war for independence  
who was assassinated near Cork in 1HFF.  
ANSWER: Michael  Collins 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 5 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
23. The protagonist’s land lady is the peppermintCpopping Mrs. Crupp0 and the protagonist works for  
Mr. Spenlow0 whose prissy daughter Dora is his first wife. While at Salem House0 the protagonist  
meets James Steerforth0 who goes on to seduce his first love (*)    Little Em’ly. The title character lives  
with Mr. Micawber who eventually unmasks the villainy of Uriah Heep. For 10 points, name this Dickens  
novel in which the titular protagonist marries Agnes Wickfield and lives happily ever after.  
ANSWER:  David Copperfield 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 6 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
ACF-Format Set #3  
Round 9  
Bonuses  
1. Its introduction begins IWe are people of this generation, bred in at least modest comfort, housed  
now in universities, looking uncomfortably to the world we inherit.I For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this leftist manifesto largely written by Tom Hayden, named for a city in Michigan.  
ANSWER:  Port Huron 
 Statement  
[10] The Port Huron Statement was issued by this left6wing student organization, whose members  
Bernardine Dohrn and Bill Ayers left to found the Weathermen.  
ANSWER:  SDS 
 [or  Students for a Democratic Society ]  
[10] Hayden was one of these defendants charged with conspiracy after the 1HJK Democratic National  
Convention in a large Illinois city.  
ANSWER:  Chicago Seven 
 [or the  Chicago Eight ]  
F. This programming paradigm allows for polymorphism, and it is used by creating class files that define  
the namesake constructs. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this programming paradigm, abbreviated OOP, exemplified by Java and CLL.  
ANSWER:  objectCoriented 
 programming  
[10] Object6oriented programming lets new classes take the fields and methods of a parent class  
through this concept, which uses an is6a relation.  
ANSWER:  inheritance  
[10] Getters and setters are used in OOP to implement this concept, which entails classes hiding design  
information from other classes in order to allow easy change of design implementation.  
ANSWER:  encapsulation  
C. This event was promoted via the “Two Thousand Words” article and attempted to achieve “socialism  
with a human face.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 1HJK liberalization movement, which ended when Soviet troops deposed Alexander  
Dubcek in favor of Gustav Husak.  
ANSWER:  Prague Spring  
[10] Prague Spring took place in this erstwhile Central European country, which split into two  
components in 1HHC after electing Vaclav Havel as its first post6communist President.  
ANSWER:  Czechoslovakia  
[10] Havel led the 1HKH democratic transition in Czechoslovakia that was given this name in honor of its  
relative “smoothness.”  
ANSWER:  Velvet Revolution 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 7 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
A. This work sees the title character brought a razor on a dish. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this play whose title female has an affair with her servant Jean before deciding to commit  
suicide.  
ANSWER:  Miss Julie 
 [or  Froken Julie ]  
[10] This author told of mummies in closets in  Ghost Sonata  and of Arvind Falk in  The Red Room  in  
addition to writing  Miss Julie .  
ANSWER: Johan August  Strindberg 
[10] Strindberg is from this Scandinavian country, also home to Nobel Laureates Salma Lagerlof and Par  
Lagerkvist.  
ANSWER: Kingdom of  Sweden  
B. Its standard value is equal to the amount of energy absorbed when a compound is produced from its  
constituent elements. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this quantity that represents the energy needed during a chemical reaction to maintain all  
substances at the same temperature.  
ANSWER: standard  heat of formation 
 [or standard  enthalpy of formation ]  
[10] This law states that the heat of formation of a reaction is the same regardless of the number of  
steps it involves and can be found by summing individual heats of formation for each step.   
ANSWER:  Hess 
’s law  
[10] The enthalpy of formation of an ionic lattice can be calculated using this thermochemical cycle that  
applies Hess’s law. One of its two namesakes names a process for making ammonia.  
ANSWER:  BornCHaber 
 cycle  
J. These three composers all drew inspiration from their native regions in Czechoslovakia. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name the composer who probably quoted “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot” in his  Symphony From the  
New World .  
ANSWER: Antonin  Dvorak  
[10] This Moravian composer wrote the  Glagolitic Mass  using the local text, and may be better known  
for operatic works like  Jenufa .  
ANSWER: Leos  Janacek 
[10] This deaf composer wrote a six6movement suite with movements depicting Vysebrad, “Bohemia’s  
Woods and Fields,” and “The Moldau,” entitled  Ma Vlast .  
ANSWER: Bedrich  Smetana  
M. In this work, the author claims that Calvinist ideas played a large role in creating one of the titular  
concepts. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this work, which explores the relationship business involvement and economic conditions  
have with religion.  
ANSWER:  The  Protestant Ethic 
 and the Spirit of Capitalism  [or  Die  protestantische Ethik  und der ‘Geist’  
des Kapitalismus ]  
[10] This twentieth century German sociologist and professor at Freiburg University wrote  The Religion  
of China  and  The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism .  
ANSWER: Max  Weber 
[10] Weber examined bureaucracy in a work named after the economy and this concept. Karl Popper  
wrote about the open one and its enemies, and Emile Durkheim wrote about the division of labor in  
one.  
ANSWER:  society 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 8 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
K. Notable battles in this war included Malplaquet and Ramillies, and its theatre in the new world was  
known as Queen Anne’s War. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this war that began with the death of Charles II and saw the Bourbons and the Hapsburgs  
fight for the throne of the namesake country.  
ANSWER: War of the  Spanish Succession  
[10] This peace ended the war by confirming Philip of Anjou as the new king of Spain. The Hapsburgs got  
the better of the deal, gaining the Spanish Netherlands, Naples, and Sardinia.  
ANSWER: PeaceNTreaty of  Utrecht  
[10] This battle was a decisive victory for the Duke of Marlborough, seeing the capture of the Duc de  
Tallard in a disastrous attempt to take Vienna.  
ANSWER: Battle of  Blenheim  
H. Frequently seen in Eastern European Jews, this disease is characterized by impaired neural  
development as a result of a buildup of GMF gangliosides. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this doubly6eponymous disease caused by a defective hexosaminidase enzyme, characterized  
by a “cherry red” spot in the eye.  
ANSWER:  TayCSachs 
 disease  
[10] GMF gangliosides are this type of membrane lipids that are derived from an amino alcohol. The  
most common example of them is cerebrosides.  
ANSWER:  sphingolipid 
s  
[10] GMF gangliosides build up in this organelle of the neuron. Its acidic interior helps hydrolytic  
enzymes digest particles.   
ANSWER:  lysosome  
10. This artist depicted the title figure wearing a red toga and laurel crown on a glowing head in  The  
Forge of Vulcan . For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this court painter of Philip IV who also painted the  Rokeby Venus , the  Surrender of Breda , and  
a notable portrait of Pope Innocent X.  
ANSWER: Diego  Velazquez  
[10] In this painting by Velazquez, the Infanta Margarita is depicted along with her attendants, while a  
mirror in the back center of this work shows the onlooking king and queen.   
ANSWER:  Las  Meninas 
 [or  The  Maids of Honour ]  
[10] This British painter created a series of grotesque interpretations of Velázquez’s portrait of Pope  
Innocent X. He also painted  Three Studies for Figures at the Base of a Crucifixion .  
ANSWER: Francis  Bacon  
11. The Deccan Mujahideen initially claimed responsibility for the attacks in this city, which may have  
been perpetrated by the group Lashkar6e6Taiba. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Indian city in which ten terrorist attacks occurred in November of F00K.  
ANSWER:  Mumbai 
 Terrorist Attacks [accept  Bombay ]  
[10] Among the sites hit during the Mumbai terrorist attacks were two hotels frequented by foreigners,  
the Oberoi Trident and this other hotel named for an Indian landmark.  
ANSWER:  Taj Mahal 
 Place and Tower  
[10] Shortly after the terrorist attacks, this Indian Prime Minister identified the gunman involved in the  
attack as coming from “outside the country.”  
ANSWER: Manmohan  Singh 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 9 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1F. Cao Cao’s defeat at the Battle of Red Cliff is a central event in this novel. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this novel, one of its country’s “four classics,” which tells the military exploits of such figures  
as Liu Pei and Sun Ch’uan.  
ANSWER:  The  Romance of the Three Kingdoms 
 [accept  San kuo chih yen-i ]  
[10]  The Romance of the Three Kingdoms  is by Luo Guanzhong, an author from this country.  
ANSWER:  China 
 [accept People’s Republic of  China ; do not accept “Republic of China”]  
[10] This contemporary Chinese author, now living in France, won a recent Nobel for his works like  Bus  
Stop  and  Soul Mountain .  
ANSWER:  Gao 
 Xingjian  
1C. The intensity of this property is given by Malus’ law. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this effect in which the waves in a beam of light align in orientation.  
ANSWER:  polarization  
[10] When unpolarized light hits a boundary between two transparent materials at this angle, named for  
a Scottish physicist, polarized light is reflected.  
ANSWER:  Brewster 
’s angle  
[10] Brewster’s angle can be computed as the arctangent of this value. This quantity also appears in  
Snell’s law and is a measure of the relative speed of light in the material.  
ANSWER:  index 
 of  refraction  
1A. This author narrated a IRomantic tale by Milton left unsungI in his autobiographical poem IThe  
Prelude.I For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this poet of II Wandered Lonely as a CloudI and ITintern Abbey.I  
ANSWER: William  Wordsworth 
[10] Wordsworth lamented that the Icelestial lightI surrounding the world dies away as children grow  
up in a poem of this form about Iintimations of immortality from recollections of early childhood.I  
ANSWER:  ode 
s  
[10] Five of WordsworthPs poems are named for this woman. Their speaker rides to her cottage at  
midnight in IStrange Fits of Passion Have I Known,I and cries IBut she is in her grave, and, oh, N The  
difference to meDI in IShe Dwelt Among the Untrodden Ways.I  
ANSWER:  Lucy 
 poems  
1B. This man composed the dramatic cantata  The Duel between Tancred and Clorinda , and the only  
extant portion of his opera  Arianna  is a lament. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this early 1Mth century Italian composer whose other operas include  The Return of Ulysses ,  
and one set in Rome during NeroPs reign,  The Coronation of Poppea .  
ANSWER: Claudio  Monteverdi  
[10] Alessandro Striggio provided the libretto to this Monteverdi opera, in which the title character sings  
the aria IRosa del cielI and travels to Hades to rescue his wife.  
ANSWER:  L’ Orfeo 
 [or  Orpheus ; or  La  Favola d-Orfeo  ; or  The  Legend of Orpheus ]  
[10] Monteverdi was one of the first composers to make use of this instrumental effect, which is the  
opposite of arco. This term indicates that the strings are to be plucked by the fingers.  
ANSWER:  pizzicato 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 10 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1J. This man’s most notable achievement was inspired by Johann Tetzel, a Dominican who sold  
indulgences to pay for St. Peter’s. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Protestant reformer who famously nailed his  95 Theses  to the door of a church in  
Wittenberg.   
ANSWER: Martin  Luther  
[10] Luther proclaimed, “Here I stand. I can do no other,” at this 1BF1 assembly in Germany, which  
outlawed his teachings.  
ANSWER: Diet of  Worms 
[10] In 1BFH, Luther met with this Swiss theologian at the Marburg Colloquy, where they agreed on all  
issues except the Eucharist.   
ANSWER: Huldrych  Zwingli 
 [or Ulrich  Zwingli ]  
1M. He fought on behalf of Conchobar mac Nessa as a member of the Knights of the Red Branch. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this mythical Irish hero who protected Ulster from Queen Maeve.  
ANSWER:  Cú Chulainn 
 [or  Setanta ]  
[10] Cú Chulainn’s primary weapon was the Gae Bulg, one of these. A bejeweled one was used to create  
the islands of Japan in Shinto myth.  
ANSWER:  spear  
[10] One Ulster Cycle text describes a raid on Cooley aimed at capturing this type of animal. The  
primordial Norse Audhumla was also one of these, and in Greek myth Io was turned into one.  
ANSWER:  cattle 
 [or  cow ]  
1K. The speaker of this poem instructs to “tear her tattered ensign downD” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this poem about a “shattered hulk” of a ship about to be scuttled, a work that takes its name  
from the nickname of the  USS Constitution .  
ANSWER: “ Old Ironsides 
”  
[10] This father of a Supreme Court justice wrote “Old Ironsides,” “The Chambered Nautilus,” and a  
series of essays called  The Autocrat at the Breakfast Table .  
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell  Holmes 
, Sr.  
[10] This member of a notable New England family satirized Poe and other well known poets in  A Fable  
for Critics  and also wrote  The Biglow Papers .  
[10] ANSWER: James Russell    Lowell 
1H. A protégé of longtime prime minister Tage Erlander, this politician served two terms as premier on  
the ticket of the Social Democratic Workers Party. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Scandinavian figure, known for his pacifism, who was assassinated in 1HKJ.  
ANSWER: Olof  Palme  
[10] Olof Palme was prime minister of this country, which was earlier led by the Vasa dynasty, and  
recently saw another killing of a sitting politician, foreign minister Anna Lindh.  
ANSWER:  Sweden  
[10] On the day of Palme’s assassination, he met with Muhammad Saeed al6Sahhaf, later the notorious  
“information minister” in the government of this man, who employed “Chemical Ali.”  
ANSWER: Saddam  Hussein 
 Abd al6Majid al6Tikriti 
2008-2009 ACF-Format Set #3  Round 9    Page 11 of 11  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
F0. Name some rivers that flow through Pennsylvania, for 10 points each.  
[10] This river forms in Pittsburgh from the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers before  
flowing past Cincinnati in its namesake state.  
ANSWER:  Ohio 
 River  
[10] This river flows past Harrisburg after its western and eastern branches meet, before it flows into  
Maryland and becomes the principle inflow of the Chesapeake Bay.  
ANSWER:  Susquehanna 
 River  
[10] This river flows past Pottsville and Reading before it enters the Delaware River, of which it is the  
largest tributary, in Philadelphia.  
ANSWER:  Schuylkill 
 River  
F1. In one novel, he befriends two Englishmen who are captured at Fort William Henry. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this frontiersman who appears in  The Last of the Mohicans  and other  Leatherstocking Tales .  
ANSWER: Nathaniel  Natty 
  Bumppo  [accept either name; accept  Hawkeye  Pierce; accept “The  
Pathfinder 
”; accept “the  Trapper ”; accept “the  Deerslayer ”]  
[10] Natty Bumppo was created by this author whose “literary offenses” were enumerated by Mark  
Twain.  
ANSWER: James Fenimore  Cooper 
[10] This novel was the last written, but first in the chronological order of the  Leatherstocking Tales . In  
it, Natty Bumppo helps rescue Chingachgook’s brother.  
ANSWER:  The  Deerslayer 
: or The First Warpath   
FF. This act was supported by a Michigander and a North Dakotan. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 1HFF tariff levied in the wake of World War I, which raised the rates from the earlier  
Underwood Tariff.  
ANSWER:  HordneyCMcCumber 
 Tariff  
[10] This defeater of James Cox in the 1HF0 election and President during the Teapot Dome Scandal  
signed the Fordney6McCumber Tariff.  
ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel  Harding 
[10] Gerardo Machado lost power in Cuba as a result of this 1HC0 tariff signed by Herbert Hoover which  
raised tariff levels higher than the previous Fordney6McCumber.  
ANSWER:  SmootCHawley 
 Tariff Act [or  HawleyCSmoot ]  
FC. One centered at the origin is given in parametric coordinates by x equals r cosine of t, y equals r sine  
of t. For 10 points each:   
[10] Name this conic section.  
ANSWER:  circle 
 [do not accept “ellipse”]  
[10] A circle is a special type of ellipse with eccentricity 0. This other conic section occurs when the  
eccentricity equals 1. In physics, all projectiles follow this sort of trajectory.  
ANSWER:  parabola 
 [do not accept “hyperbola”]  
[10] Any conic section can be defined as the set of all points located in a fixed ratio between a point and  
a line. That point is known as the focus, while that line is known as this.    
ANSWER:  directrix 
