National History Bowl 11 
Round 3 
First Quarter 
1. Woodrow Wilson was the first major scholar to endorse this essay's ideas. Its title object is described as 
\"the meeting point of savagery and civilization,\" and its major argument is that \"an area of free land, its 
continuous recession, and the advance of American settlement westward explain American development.\" 
For 10 points, name this 1893 essay proposing Frederick Jackson Turner's \"frontier thesis.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Significance of the Frontier in American History 
\" 
003-11-31-03101 
2. Historical events depicted on this show include the destruction of old Penn Station, the crash of 
American Airlines Flight 1, and the self-immolation of Thich Quang Duc. Supporting characters on this 
program include Duck Phillips and the closeted Sal Romano. This show was created by a former Sopranos 
writer named Matthew Weiner. Prominent characters include Peggy Olson and Betty, played by January 
Jones. For 10 points, name this AMC show centering on Don Draper, an advertising executive in the 1960s. 
ANSWER:  
Mad Men 
094-11-31-03102 
3. This man’s Composition with Pouring II and Water Figure can be found in the Hirshorn Museum. His 
wife Lee Krasner was also an important artist. The truck driver Teri Horton bought a work he may have 
painted for five dollars at a thrift shop. His paintings include Full Fathom Five, Lavender Mist, and Blue 
Poles. For 10 points, name this Abstract Expressionist sometimes called “Jack the Dripper.” 
ANSWER: Jackson  
Pollock 
015-11-31-03103 
4. The founder of this empire was born to a hunchbacked woman and refused to walk for the first seven 
years of his life. That man established this empire after victory over Sumanguru Kante at the Battle of 
Kirina, and was named Sundiata Keita. The most famous leader of this empire devalued gold on his way to 
perform the Hajj. For 10 points, name this African empire led by Mansa Musa. 
ANSWER:  
Mali 
 Empire 
081-11-31-03104 
5. One man implicated in this event was Caspar Weinberger. This event stemmed from an attempt to 
circumvent the Boland Amendment, and it was investigated by the Tower Commission, who implicated 
Oliver North as well as John Poindexter. For 10 points, name this Reagan-era political scandal that saw the 
sale of arms to a certain country in order to finance the namesake Nicaraguan rebel group. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Contra 
 affair 
081-11-31-03105 
6. Increased support to guerrillas in this nation was carried out under Operation Cyclone. Recently, doubt 
has been cast on operations in this nation such as the Nangar Khel after release of Wikileaks cables, which 
also contained reports of Pakistani complicity with insurgents seeking to destabilize the government of 
Hamid Karzai. For 10 points, name this nation which is partially controlled by the Taliban. 
ANSWER:  
Afghanistan 
081-11-31-03106 
7. One piece of legislation introduced by this figure is the Light Bulb Freedom of Choice Act. The Obama 
administration refuted a claim by this lawmaker that a trip to India would cost taxpayers 200 million dollars 
per day. Her status as a favorite of the Tea Party could set her up for a showdown with Sarah Palin. For 10 
points, name this conservative Republican representative from Minnesota. 
ANSWER: Michele  
Bachmann 
081-11-31-03107 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. One of this country's most important political parties in recent years is PASOK. Its monarch was George 
I for the last half of the 19th century. From 1967 to 1974 it was ruled by the Colonels. Many members of 
the Papandreou family have had important role's in this country's government. For 10 points, name this 
nation that has often clashed with Turkey over the nearby island of Cyprus. 
ANSWER:  
Greece 
 [or  
Ellinikí 
 Dhimokratía; or  
Hellenic 
 Republic; or  
Hellas 
; or  
Elláda 
] 
001-11-31-03108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 3 
Second Quarter 
1.  
One act passed in support of this amendment was formulated by Wayne Wheeler, though that act 
was not named for Wheeler but instead for a congressman from Minnesota. That act in support of 
this law was itself made law after a Congressional override of President Wilson's veto. The main 
force of this law was put into effect a year after its passage, and it was supported by the Women's 
Christian (*) 
 Temperance Union. Supported legislatively by the Volstead Act, for 10 points, was what 
Constitutional amendment that prohibited the sale of alcohol? 
ANSWER:  
Eighteenth 
 Amendment to the U.S. Constitution 
BONUS: Which 1929 act of violence in Chicago that saw six members of the North Side Gang killed, 
helped to turn the general public against the support of Prohibition? 
ANSWER:  
St. Valentine’s Day Massacre 
081-11-31-03101 
2.  
This ruler’s advisor Antonio Perez murdered Juan de Escobedo, the secretary of this ruler’s 
half-brother. Maurice of Nassau began the Eighty Years War in the Netherlands as a revolt against 
this ruler. This ruler, who commissioned the construction of the Escorial, sent his half-brother John 
of Austria to support the Holy League at the Battle of (*) 
 Lepanto. A group of ships sent by this ruler 
with the intention of transporting the army of the Duke of Parma was defeated by the fire ships of Francis 
Drake. For 10 points, name this Spanish ruler who deployed an armada that was defeated by the English in 
1588. 
ANSWER:  
Philip II 
 of Spain 
BONUS: The Escorial was laid out in the shape of a grill to commemorate the death of which Saint? 
ANSWER: Saint  
Lawrence 
 [or Saint  
Lorenzo 
] 
064-11-31-03102 
3.  
This event was investigated by a committee led by Aaron F. Perry, and it was publicized thanks to 
letters leaked by Henry Simpson McComb. A company involved in this event was founded by George 
Francis Train and Thomas Durant. It occurred because Oakes Ames offered (*) 
 shares in a certain 
construction company to other congressmen at discounted rates during the construction of the First 
Transcontinental Railroad under the purview of Union Pacific. For 10 points, name this scandal which took 
place in 1872, during the presidency of Ulysses S. Grant. 
ANSWER:  
Crédit Mobilier 
 of America scandal 
BONUS: Credit Mobilier damaged the political career of which man who served as Vice-President in 
Grant’s first term? 
ANSWER: Schuyler  
Colfax 
024-11-31-03103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
The main figure of this work recounts how he refused orders to retrieve Leon of Salamis because 
Leon was slated to be executed. This work begins with the assertion that Chaerephon went to the 
Oracle of Delphi to find out that none is wiser than the central figure. After cross-examining Meletus, 
the central figure argues that God would not let one man harm a better man, like a (*) 
 gadfly stinging 
a horse. For 10 points, name this Platonic dialogue that recounts the real-life trial at which Socrates was 
found guilty of corrupting the Athenian youth and ordered to drink hemlock in 399 BCE. 
ANSWER:  
The  Apology  of Socrates 
 [or  
Apologia 
] 
BONUS: Which French neoclassicist painted the work “The Death of Socrates?” 
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis  
David 
079-11-31-03104 
5.  
Because he was delayed in the Battle of Rosebud, George Crook could not participate in this battle. 
Frederick Benteen provided backup for Marcus Reno on what is now known as Reno Hill during this 
battle. One of the few survivors on the losing side of this battle was named Curly, and his report of 
this battle differs from that of Chief Gall. (*) 
 Buffalo Calf Road Woman is credited with knocking the 
American commander off his horse. This 1876 battle of the Great Sioux War resulted in a decisive victory 
for the side led by Crazy Horse. For 10 points, name this battle nicknamed “Custer’s Last Stand.” 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Little Bighorn 
BONUS: The Battle of the Little Bighorn was fought in what state? 
ANSWER:  
Montana 
024-11-31-03105 
6.  
Stephen de Segrave and Peter de Rivaux both served in the court of this ruler. Aided by Gilbert de 
Clare, this ruler’s son crushed an insurrection at the Battle of Evesham. Prior to that battle, this 
ruler was captured at the Battle of Lewes. (*) 
 Simon de Montfort led the Second Barons’ War against 
this ruler and called the Oxford Parliament to protest this ruler. The uprising of Montfort forced this man to 
sign the Provisions of Oxford strengthening the Magna Carta. For 10 points, name this English king who 
ruled between King John and Edward Longshanks. 
ANSWER:  
Henry III 
 of England 
BONUS: What royal house did Henry III belong to? 
ANSWER:  
Plantagenet 
064-11-31-03106 
7.  
This man was Chief Justice during a decision which ruled that state legislature districts had to be 
approximately equal in population,  Reynolds v. Sims , as well as one which ruled that federal courts 
could decide reapportionment cases, (*) 
Baker v. Carr 
. Other cases decided by his court included one 
dealing with the right to legal counsel of defendants who cannot afford attorneys,  
Gideon v. Wainwright 
. 
For 10 points, name this Chief Justice of the Supreme Court during the  
Brown v. Board of Education 
decision. 
ANSWER: Earl  
Warren 
BONUS: Warren was directly succeeded by which man as Chief Justice? 
ANSWER: Warren  
Burger 
024-11-31-03107 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8.  
This religion’s leaders were arrested under the Espionage Act in 1918 since they believed 1914, 
and hence World War I, marked the beginning of Armageddon. In 1940’s  Minersville v. Gobitis , it 
was ruled that public schools could compel these people to recite the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Established by “Judge” Rutherford as the successor to Charles Taze Russell’s Bible Student 
movement, it teaches that Christ was not killed on a cross, prohibits (*) 
 blood transfusions, and asserts 
that 144,000 people will be saved. For 10 points, name this religion whose adherents read  
The Watch 
Tower 
, worship in Kingdom Halls, and proselytize from door-to-door. 
ANSWER:  
Jehovah’s Witness 
es [prompt on  
Bible Student 
 movement] 
BONUS: The source of the name “Jehovah’s Witnesses” can be traced to what book of prophecy in the 
Old Testament, often read from during Advent? 
ANSWER:  
Isaiah 
079-11-31-03108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 3 
Third Quarter 
PRESIDENTIAL PARTIES 
Given the name of a presidential candidate and the year in which they ran, name the party they ran for. 
A. Franklin Roosevelt, 1936 and 1940 
ANSWER:  
Democrat 
ic Party 
B. Ulysses S. Grant, 1868 and 1872 
ANSWER:  
Republican 
 Party 
C. Theodore Roosevelt, 1912 
ANSWER:  
Progressive 
 Party 
D. Herbert Hoover, 1928 
ANSWER:  
Republican 
 Party 
E. Strom Thurmond, 1948 
ANSWER:  
Dixiecrat 
 Party [or  
States Rights Democratic 
 Party; prompt on  
Democrat 
ic Party] 
F. Samuel Tilden, 1876 
ANSWER:  
Democrat 
ic Party 
G. Robert La Follette, 1924 
ANSWER:  
Progressive 
 Party 
H. John C. Breckinridge, 1860 
ANSWER:  
Southern Democrat 
ic Party [prompt on  
Democrat 
ic Party] 
024-11-31-0310-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
AMERICAN INVENTIONS 
Name the Americans who invented the following things. 
A. The lightbulb and the phonograph 
ANSWER: Thomas Alva  
Edison 
B. The first airplane capable of sustained flight, tested at Kitty Hawk 
ANSWER: Orville and Wilbur  
Wright 
C. Roll film, invented by the founder of Kodak 
ANSWER: George  
Eastman 
D. The disposable safety razor 
ANSWER: King Camp  
Gillette 
E. The transistor, along with Walter Brattain and John Bardeen 
ANSWER: William Bradford  
Shockley 
, Jr. 
F. The solid-body electric guitar 
ANSWER: Les  
Paul 
 [or Lester William  
Polsfuss 
] 
G. The synthesizer, invented by the man who lost out to Alexander Graham bell for the patent to the 
telephone 
ANSWER: Elisha  
Gray 
H. Frozen food 
ANSWER: Clarence Frank  
Birdseye 
 II 
024-11-31-0310-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
U.S. STATES 
For each event given, name the state in which it took place. 
A. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox Court House 
ANSWER:  
Virginia 
B. The gunfight at the O.K. Corral 
ANSWER:  
Arizona 
C. The Scopes trial 
ANSWER:  
Tennessee 
D. The Johnstown flood 
ANSWER: 
Pennsylvania 
E. The  
Hindenburg 
 disaster 
ANSWER:  
New Jersey 
F. The Bretton Woods Conference 
ANSWER:  
New Hampshire 
G. The assassination of William McKinley 
ANSWER:  
New York 
H. The Monongah Mine Disaster 
ANSWER:  
West Virginia 
024-11-31-0310-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 3 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
One of the men who signed a bond that released Jefferson Davis from custody after the Civil War, 
he was appointed to a peace commission by Abraham Lincoln which was intended to fail due to his 
support of reaching a (+)  compromise with the Confederacy. This man succeeded David S. Jackson 
as a member of the House of Representatives, and after he lost the popular vote in the 1872 
Presidential Election to (*) 
 Ulysses S. Grant, this man died. For 10 points, name this man who also 
founded the  
New York Tribune 
, though it is disputed if he actually said \"Go west, young man.\" 
ANSWER: Horace  
Greeley 
088-11-31-03101 
2.  
One cartoonist for this newspaper was Clifford Berryman, who coined the term “remember the 
Maine” and showed Roosevelt “drawing the line in Mississippi” in a cartoon which inspired the (+) 
teddy bear. Another cartoon in this paper showed an elephant being forced onto a wobbly platform 
labeled “McCarthyism” and was drawn by Herblock. It is the namesake of John Phillip Sousa 
march. This paper’s editor Benjamin Bradlee joined the  New York Times  in publishing the (*) 
Pentagon Papers and employed Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein. For 10 points, name this paper which 
interacted with Deep Throat to break the Watergate story, the largest paper in the nation’s capital. 
ANSWER:  
The  Washington Post 
015-11-31-03102 
3.  
This leader came to power after serving as minister of information in the administration of Lal 
Bahadur Shastri. This politician’s actions while Prime Minister, which included authorizing forced 
(+)  sterilizations and arresting George Fernandes, were attacked by the Shah Commission. She was 
deposed by the Janata Party after instituting an unpopular two year state of emergency. After 
authorizing an attack on the (*) 
 Golden Temple of Amritsar, she was killed by two of her own Sikh 
bodyguards. For 10 points, name this daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru who served as Prime Minister of India. 
ANSWER:  ndira Priyadarshini  
I Gandhi 
015-11-31-03103 
4.  
This scientist coined the term “asteroid” and was the first to propose that the Milky Way galaxy 
was shaped like a disk. This man designed a new type of telescope, which had a 40 foot focal length, 
which he used to discover two new moons of (+)  Saturn. Although this astronomer was born in 
Germany, most of his work took place in the city of Bath in England. Apart from being a composer 
in his spare time, this man discovered the moons Oberon and Titania, which orbit his most famous 
discovery, which he initially called (*) 
 “George’s Star”. For ten points, name this astronomer who 
discovered the seventh planet, Uranus. 
ANSWER: William  
Herschel 
021-11-31-03104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
This thinker's early work included the book Theory of the Consumption Function. This man's 
work with Simon Kuznets resulted in the permanent income hypothesis, which states that people 
make decisions based on what they think their future income will be. (+)  This economist argued that 
the government should control inflation by changing the money supply, a position he called 
\"monetarism\". This man also wrote the Monetary History of the United States. Along with his wife 
Rose, this winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize created a TV series called (*) 
 Free to Choose, which 
criticized government regulation. For 10 points, name this economist from the University of Chicago, an 
advocate of the free market. 
ANSWER: Milton  
Friedman 
021-11-31-03105 
6.  
This man, along with his cousin Timothy Folger, was the first to chart the Gulf Stream, which he 
gave its name. Along with John Hadley, this scientist conducted experiments in Cambridge that 
demonstrated the principle of evaporative (+)  cooling. This scientist was the first to show the 
conservation of charge, and it is because of him that we use the terms \"positive\" and \"negative\" to 
describe charge. Georg Richmann was killed attempting to repeat an experiment in which this man 
attempted to show that vitreous and resinous (*) 
 electricity were the same. For 10 points, name this 
inventor of the lightning rod and conductor of a kite experiment. 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
Franklin 
026-11-31-03106 
7.  
This man hosted a council at Bari in an attempt to reconcile the Eastern Orthodox and Roman 
Catholic churches in the matter of the filioque, and he worked with Count Roger I of Sicily to 
reestablish the Roman Catholic Church there. He held a synod at (+)  Quedlinburg in which Guibert 
of Ravenna was anathematized. This man implemented several reforms initiated by Gregory VII. He 
hosted an assembly at the request of Byzantine Emperor Alexius Comnenus in which he made a 
speech in which he said, \"God wills it.\" That meeting convened by this man was the (*) 
 Council of 
Clermont. For 10 points, name this pope who called the First Crusade. 
ANSWER:  
Urban II 
 [or  
Odo 
; or  
Eudos 
; or  
Otto 
] 
030-11-31-03107 
8.  
This man made the mistake of using translators from a low-ranking social group when negotiating 
with his intended trading partner, and that led him bombard the city in question. He supply ship 
under Gaspar de Lemos went back home during the voyage. He established the first European 
settlement at (+)  Cochin. He landed after sighting Mount Easter. He name the place he is most noted 
for visiting \"the island of the true cross.\" He arrived at that place while commanding the second 
large Portuguese expedition to India. The Treaty of (*) 
 Tordesillas granted that discovery to Portugal. 
For 10 points, name this Portuguese explorer who was the first European to find Brazil. 
ANSWER: Pedro Álvares  
Cabral 
001-11-31-03108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 3     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
