National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 5 
Tossups 
1. In one novel by this author, a historian hired to write General Llorente's memoirs seduces his employer's 
niece, only for her to turn into the old widow Consuelo. In another novel by this author, Ixca Cienfuegos 
searches for human sacrifices to appease his mother Teodula Moctezuma. One of this author's title 
characters is comforted by Padilla playing tapes of his former transactions. That character appears in a 
novel in which he marries Catalina after his true love Regina is killed by Pancho Villa, and becomes a 
tycoon after the Mexican Revolution. For 10 points, name this Mexican author of  
Aura, Where the Air is 
Clear 
, and  
The Death of Artemio Cruz 
. 
ANSWER: Carlos  
Fuentes 
022-09-12-05102 
2. This man painted a series of still lifes of eggplants with peppers, apples, and plums. He painted a giant 
sign reading “Office and Plant, Eshelman, Feed” in one of his paintings of the buildings of Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania. He painted a pair of smokestacks in the background of his  
After All 
 and depicted a metal 
chimney rising past the fire escape of a tenement in  
Modern Conveniences 
. This artist painted a grain 
elevator running up a white building in his  
My Egypt 
. Another of his paintings has cut off depictions of the 
words “Bill” and “Carlos” and includes three instances of the title number. For 10 points, name this 
American artist who used a William Carlos Williams poem as the basis for  
I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold 
. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Demuth 
015-09-12-05103 
3. One class of this type of problem is the so-called open shop problems. One major approach to handling 
this uses a multi-layer feedback queue. An important consideration when doing this is the burst rate; some 
methods for doing it require defining time quanta. Real-time operating systems have been known to run 
into priority inversion problems involving this which can make preemption hazardous. Common criteria for 
systems to do this include fairness, responsiveness, and throughput, the last of which is maximized by a 
shortest-job-first method. A simple solution to it is is a first-in first-out method. For 10 points, name this 
problem of finding an optimal order for a series of events or processes. 
ANSWER:  
scheduling 
 (accept pretty much anything that indicates that making a  
schedule 
 is involved) 
001-09-12-05104 
4. In her early career, this observer at Evian conference worked for the Histadrut Labour Council and 
served as her country’s first ambassador to the Soviet Union. This leader’s early reign was marked by the 
War of Attrition, and she formed the Labour party by uniting her country’s Rafi, Ahdut Haavoda and 
Mapai parties. The fallout from the Agranat Commission forced this leader to resign; earlier she had 
succeeded Levi Eshkol in her highest post. She authorized Operation Wrath of God following the atrocities 
at the 1972 Summer Olympics Munich, although she fell from political grace after her country was taken 
off guard during the Yom Kippur War. For 10 points, name this female Israeli prime minister of the 
1970’s. 
ANSWER: Golda  
Meir 
 [or Golda  
Mebovitz 
] 
064-09-12-05105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  1 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This figure recited an incantation over his sleeping wife to exchange faces with her. This god named his 
four brothers and briefly earned their ire because he was allowed to sleep in his mother's bed. In one 
version, he died when the laughter of a fan tail caused the ruler of the underworld to crush him between her 
legs. This god was wrapped in the top-knot of Taranga, then nursed by seaweed before proceeding to use a 
jaw-bone of his ancestor to beat the sun. This figure transformed Irawaru into a dog, which distressed his 
sister Hina. Known for using a fishhook to haul up islands in the Pacific, for 10 points, name this trickster 
in Polynesian myth. 
ANSWER:  
Maui 
003-09-12-05106 
6. This writer complained about his audience being distracted by a rope-dancer in the prologue to one of his 
plays. In the prologue to his last work, this author admits plagiarizing  
Linked By Death 
, a work of Diphilus. 
In that play, Micio raises his nephew Aeschinus and Demea brings up Ctesiphon. This author of  
The 
Mother-in-Law 
 wrote a play in which Parmeno introduces Chaerea to the title character, and Pamphila is a 
gift for Thais from Phaedria and Thraso. For 10 points, name this Roman playwright of  
The Eunuch 
 who 
was brought from Carthage as a slave, who often adapted the plots of Menander and wrote for a more 
sophisticated audience than his predecessor Plautus. 
ANSWER:  
Terence 
 [or Publius  
Terentius 
 Afer] 
063-09-12-05107 
7. This man’s special car was called the “Blue Moose.” After World War I, he became addicted to 
morphine and was placed in the violent ward at Langbro asylum. During World War II, this man was 
mocked as “Mister Meier” in regards to a boast he had earlier made. Near the end of the war, this man sent 
a telegram to Hitler in which he announced he would take control of the Reich, prompting Hitler to angrily 
change his will. A winner of the Blue Max award, this man used potassium cyanide hidden in skin cream to 
avoid having to face the humiliation of a public execution. For 10 points, name this man who committed 
suicide before his hanging at Nuremberg, a rotund Nazi in charge of the Luftwaffe. 
ANSWER: Hermann  
Goering 
052-09-12-05108 
8. In one story by this author, Tom King regretfully remembers humiliating the old prizefighter Stowsher 
Bill after losing a fight to Sandel. In a dystopian novel by this author, Avis and Ernest Everhard fight 
against the fascist Oligarchy. This author of the short story \"A Piece of Steak\" wrote a novel contrasting the 
love between Maud and Humphrey with the lack of morality of the title character, the captain of the  
Ghost 
. 
The protagonist of another of this author's novels kills his rival Spitz after being kidnapped from the estate 
of Judge Miller, and loses his ties to civilization after discovering the death of John Thornton. For 10 
points, name this American author of  
The Iron Heel The Sea Wolf 
,  , and  
The Call of the Wild 
. 
ANSWER: Jack  
London 
030-09-12-05109 
9. Important to the virulence of this organism is the gene PfEMP1, and surface markers on those organisms 
include the vaccine candidate MSP-1. This organism's genome has one of the most AT rich genomes 
sequenced, and it uses the glycophorin-C protein on its host cells. This organism also has apicoplasts. 
Different phases of it see populations of schizonts, merozoites, and sporozoites. At various stages of the 
disease caused by this organism, both red blood cells and liver cells are infected, and it is transmitted 
through the Anopheles mosquito. For 10 points, name this genus of protozoan which causes malaria. 
ANSWER:  
Plasmodium 
 [or  
Plasmodium  vivax 
,  
Plasmodium  falciparum 
, etc.] 
001-09-12-05110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  2 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. An incident discussing the consumption of strangled meat in this book is used to explain why Christians 
do not have to keep kosher. One couple in this book withholds a portion of profit from a land sale and 
presents it as the entire amount. This book describes the story of Sapphira and Ananias and contains 
prohibitions against worshiping idols and fornicating. Most famously, this book describes the stoning to 
death of Stephen by a mob, a crime approved by Saul, who himself is converted to Christianity in its pages. 
For 10 points, name this Biblical book written by Luke, that recounts what happened to the twelve 
followers of Jesus Christ. 
ANSWER:  
Acts 
 of the Apostles 
032-09-12-05111 
11. One general at this battle personally led the 57th Brigade into battle, after which General Rapp feared 
him dead and assumed command until General Davout reappeared alive. The center of the defender's lines 
in this battle contained a huge cannon-protecting earthworks called the Raevsky Redoubt. An important 
stronghold for the eventual losers of this battle was the left-flank \"Bagration flèches.\" Prince Eugene 
commanded the Italy Corps in this battle, the defending forces at which were organized by Count Barclay 
de Tolly. The victors at the battle failed to take the offensive after they scattered Mikhail Kutuzov's troops. 
For 10 points, name this final offensive in Napoleon's invasion of Russia, a massive battle fought outside of 
Moscow in 1812. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Borodino 
 [or  
Borodinskaya 
 bitva; or  
Moskva River 
] 
026-09-12-05112 
12. This opera parodies the bel canto style of singing in the serenade \"Di rigori armato di seno,\" which is 
cut short by a character arguing with a notary about a dowry. This opera's main love triangle is resolved in 
its third act trio \"Hab’ mir’s gelobt,\" which is followed by two young lovers singing the duet \"Ist ein 
traum.\" This opera's mezzo-soprano is assisted by the intriguers Valzacchi and Annina, and disguises 
himself as the maid Mariandel to avoid being caught in the chambers of the Marshallin. Hugo von 
Hofmansthal wrote the libretto for this opera, in which the lecherous Baron Ochs is foiled in his plans to 
marry Sophie, who instead falls in love with Octavian. For 10 points, name this comic opera by Richard 
Strauss, whose title refers to Octavian's presentation of a silver flower. 
ANSWER:  
Der  Rosenkavalier 
 [or  
The  Knight of the Rose 
] 
024-09-12-05113 
13. In this election, Dick Gregory was a write-in candidate for the Peace and Freedom Party. George 
Romney dropped from the Republican primaries of this year after claiming the military had \"brainwashed\" 
him. Volunteers for a Democratic candidate in this election shaved their facial hair to go \"clean for Gene.\" 
The winner of this election used the \"Southern strategy,\" although southern states voted for the American 
Independent Party. The incumbent announced he would not seek a second term after a surprising showing 
in the New Hampshire primary by Eugene McCarthy. For 10 points, name this presidential election that 
Hubert Humphrey lost to Richard Nixon. 
ANSWER: Election of  
1968 
004-09-12-05114 
14. One mathematician with this last name developed an algebra in which the most general associativity 
relations are x and y x times y equals y times x and quantity x-squared times y, close quantity times x 
equals x-squared times quantity y times x. Another mathematician with this last name proved the theorem 
that a simple, closed curve divides the plain disjoint interior and exterior regions; such curves also bear his 
name. Still another mathematician with this last is the second namesake of a method in which a matrix is 
inverted by reducing it reduced row-echelon form. For 10 points, give this last name of mathematician 
Wilhelm, who names a form of matrix elimination with Carl Friedrich Gauss. 
ANSWER:  
Jordan 
064-09-12-05115 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  3 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. Johan Halvorsen arranged a version this composer's Passacaglia in G minor for viola and violin. One of 
this composer's works features the \"Hailstone chorus,\" and is usually performed as its second and third 
movements, \"Exodus\" and \"Moses' Song.\" His works are organized by HWV numbers, and he composed 
\"The Arrival of the Queen of Sheba\" for his oratorio  
Solomon 
. The aria \"Ombra mai fù\" is known as his 
\"Largo.\" Another of his oratorios is set to a libretto by Charles Jennens, and includes the choruses \"I know 
my redeemer liveth\" and \"For unto us a child is born.\" For 10 points, name this German-born Baroque 
composer of  
Israel in Egypt 
, who wrote the \"Hallelujah chorus\" for his oratorio  
Messiah 
. 
ANSWER: George Frideric  
Handel 
 [or Georg Friedrich  
Haendel 
] 
023-09-12-05116 
16. For coordination complexes the value of this quantity for the whole complex, known as the stability 
constant, is equal to the product of the stepwise values. The derivative of the natural log of this value with 
respect to the inverse temperature is equal to the negative change in enthalpy over R. Activities are 
approximated by using concentrations in the standard definition of this quantity in the law of mass action, 
and it is equal to the ratio of the rate of the forward and reverse reaction. For 10 points, name this chemical 
value equal to an expression involving the concentrations of products over reactants, symbolized K. 
ANSWER:  
Equilibrium 
 Constant [or   before mentioned] 
K 
048-09-12-05117 
17. Steve Hilton works as a strategist for this man, who defeated David Davis in a 2005 party election. 
Opposition to this man refers to him as a chameleon and he generated controversy after it was revealed he 
made a 1989 vacation trip to apartheid era South Africa. His cabinet consists of individuals as William 
Hague and Kenneth Clarke. In 2005, he succeeded Michael Howard as head of his party. Nick Clegg serves 
as this man’s deputy, and he reached his highest position after a coalition was formed between the 
Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats. For 10 points, name this new Prime Minister of Great Britain. 
ANSWER: David  
Cameron 
064-09-12-05118 
18. This writer posited that places which concentrate work, sleep, and recreation into the same physical 
space and are demarcated by a physical barrier constitute \"total institutions,\" which include everything 
from Nazi camps to the title places of his work  
Asylums. 
 Passing and voluntary disclosure are involved in 
the five-phase model of how deviance is shamed, according to his book  
Stigma. 
 He identified the 
\"backstage\" and \"frontstage\" areas of public spaces in another work, which identifies life as a series of 
\"encounters\" which are performed. For 10 points, name this Canadian sociologist who used the 
dramaturgical approach and symbolic interactionism to explain  
The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life. 
ANSWER: Erving  
Goffman 
019-09-12-05119 
19. Several characters in this poem steal a \"frightened look\" at \"the gray wizard's conjuring book,\" referring 
to Cornelius Agrippa's  
Occult Philosophy 
, which supplies the first of this poem's two epigraphs. The 
author's note to this poem explains that its \"not unfeared, half-welcome guest\" was Harriet Livermore, 
although it does not identify \"the master of the district school,\" who is described as one of \"Freedom's 
young apostles\" who will \"Uplift the black and white alike\" after the Civil War. Near the beginning of this 
poem, the call \"Boys, a path!\" leads the central family to dig a tunnel to their barn, before that family tells 
stories by the fireplace in order to wait out the results of a storm. Subtitled \"A Winter Idyl,\" for 10 points, 
name this John Greenleaf Whittier poem about a New England blizzard. 
ANSWER: \" 
Snow-Bound 
: A Winter Idyl\" 
004-09-12-05120 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  4 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. After the poor preparation of this man’s military in a war, he commissioned the Henderson-Brooks 
report to investigate. In his preface to his country’s report on nuclear weapons, this man called them 
“frightful engines of destruction.” Upon taking his most noted office, this man gave the “A Tryst With 
Destiny” speech. He set up the “Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence” with China, although war would 
later break out in 1962. Along with Tito and Nasser, this man founded the Non-Aligned Movement. Other 
people to hold this man’s position included his grandson, Rajiv, and his daughter, Indira. For 10 points, 
name this Indian statesman, the first prime minister of independent India. 
ANSWER: Jawaharlal  
Nehru 
052-09-12-05121 
21. In one story from this work, a man who spends all of his money wooing his lover is forced to cook his 
prized falcon when he has her over for supper. In another of its stories, Alessandro runs the businesses of 
his uncles in London before traveling to Rome to get the pope’s permission to marry the princess of 
England. Other works in this collection include one in which the generous Nathan is stabbed by Mitridanes, 
and one which inspired Lessing in which Melchizedek tells Saladin the story of the three rings when asked 
which religion is the truth. Another of its stories concerns the Marquis of Saluzzo who tricks Griselda into 
thinking her two children are dead, inspiring Chaucer’s  
Clerk’s Tale 
. For 10 points, name this collection in 
which Panfilo, Fiametta, and eight other Florentines tell ten stories each while escaping the plague, a work 
of Boccaccio. 
ANSWER:  
The  Decameron 
015-09-12-05122 
22. One type of this device relies on an overlap between the valence and conduction bands to keep the 
Fermi level constant and operates by inducing a current across a narrow depletion region. Four of these 
elements are connected in a bridge to produce a full-wave rectifier. Voltage regulators are often designed 
using a specific type of this circuit element in which the current is independent of the applied voltage once 
the breakdown voltage is exceeded. The varactor type of these circuit elements is used to implement a 
variable capacitance. Seemingly negative resistance is exhibited by a variety of these devices named for 
Esaki; simpler ones consist of single PN junctions. For 10 points, identify these circuit elements which also 
exist in Schottky and Zener varieties and that typically pass current in only one direction. 
ANSWER:  
diode 
s 
043-09-12-05123 
23. One section of this collection responds to the fears voiced by \"Brutus\" by claiming that the judiciary is 
\"least dangerous\" to political rights because it has \"neither FORCE nor WILL, but merely judgment.\" Its 
tenth section argues that a large republic is best suited to control the effects of factions. The fifty-first 
section of this collection asserts \"If men were angels, no government would be necessary,\" and that 
\"Ambition must be made to counteract ambition\" in the form of checks and balances. Published under the 
pseudonym Publius, for 10 points, name this group of essays arguing in favor of ratifying the Constitution, 
which were written by John Jay, Alexander Hamilton, and James Madison. 
ANSWER: the  
Federalist Papers 
 [or  
The  Federalist 
] 
004-09-12-05124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  5 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 5 
Bonuses 
1. This figure tells the title character of the novel in which he appears that the Shaper is just another human 
being and gives him the advice “seek out gold and sit on it.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this omniscient pessimist whose dialogue with that title character makes up most of the chapter 
“Leo.” 
ANSWER: the  
dragon 
[10] The dragon is a major character in this novel. It is named for the monster whose raids on the mead hall 
Heorot are ended by Beowulf in an Old English epic. 
ANSWER:  
Grendel 
[10] This American author of  
Vlemk the Box Painter 
 and  
On Moral Fiction 
 wrote  
Grendel 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Gardner 
015-09-12-05201 
2. This musician's signature song was \"When It's Sleepy Time Down South.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this trumpeter who helped popularize jazz by recording albums with his \"Hot Five\" and \"Hot 
Seven.\" He also sang \"What a Wonderful World.\" 
ANSWER: Louis  
Armstrong 
 [or  
Satchmo 
] 
[10] Armstrong helped popularize this style of singing on the song \"Heebie Jeebies.\" In this style of 
singing, performers improvise nonsense syllables that complement the melody. 
ANSWER:  
scat 
 singing 
[10] This pianist claimed that he pioneered scat singing in 1907 and invented jazz in 1902. He formed a 
band called his \"Red Hot Peppers\" and composed standards like \"King Porter Stomp,\" \"Black Bottom 
Stomp,\" and \"Wolverine Blues.\" 
ANSWER: Ferdinand \"Jelly Roll\"  
Morton 
004-09-12-05202 
3. This philosopher argued that a moving arrow merely occupies a series of static spaces, and therefore 
does not move. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Greek philosopher from Elea, who argued against plurality in his many paradoxes, such as 
one in which Achilles fails to overtake a tortoise. 
ANSWER:  
Zeno 
 of Elea 
[10] Zeno devised his paradoxes to support this philosopher's argument that the world never changes. In a 
Platonic dialogue named for this monist, he presents the Third Man argument to critique the theory of 
forms. 
ANSWER:  
Parmenides 
 of Elea 
[10] In response to Parmenides's denial of multiplicity, this philosopher developed the theory that the world 
is made up of atoms, which was popularized by his student Democritus. 
ANSWER:  
Leucippus 
004-09-12-05203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  6 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. The Bhagavad Gita describes the “Karma” and “Gnana” versions of this practice. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this meditative practice important in various Eastern religions, including Hinduism, Buddhism, 
and Jainism. The familiar “Hatha” version involves physical and breathing exercises which are practiced 
by non-believers as well. 
ANSWER:  
yoga 
[10] The Bhagavad Gita also describes this form of yoga. This word is more commonly used in Hinduism 
to denote the active involvement in one’s faith. It is translated as “devotion” or “participation” and stresses 
strong relationships and love. 
ANSWER:  
Bhakti 
[10] In yoga, breathing exercises are known as “pranayama,” while the spiritual hand or finger gestures are 
known as these. Basic examples involve positioning one’s fingers in a certain way while placing the hands 
palm-down on the thighs. 
ANSWER:  
Mudra 
s 
052-09-12-05204 
5. Serjeant Buzfuz successfully prosecutes this novel's title character for not marrying Mrs. Bardell. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this novel about the adventures of the title character and his friends Tracy Tupman, Augustus 
Snodgrass, and Nathaniel Winkle. 
ANSWER:  
The  Pickwick Papers 
[10] This author wrote  
The Pickwick Papers 
 after publishing his collected  
Sketches by Boz 
. He criticized 
the institutions of Victorian England in his novels  
Little Dorrit 
 and  
Bleak House 
. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Dickens 
[10]  
The Pickwick Papers 
 became hugely popular because of this character, the Cockney servant of 
Pickwick, who is first seen blacking boots at the White Hart Inn. His comic sayings, such as \"'Out with it,' 
as the father said to the child when he swallowed a farthing,\" became known as his namesake \"isms.\" 
ANSWER: Sam  
Weller 
 [or  
Sam 
uel Weller] 
064-09-12-05205 
6. Out of revenge for being thrown from Mount Olympus, this god sent Hera a golden throne which trapped 
her when she sat on it. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this god of the forge, who fashioned a magical net to catch his wife Aphrodite in bed with Ares. 
ANSWER:  
Hephaestos 
 [or  
Vulcan 
] 
[10] Hephaestus created this singly-veined, living bronze statue, who guarded Europa by wandering around 
Crete and throwing rocks at pirate ships. 
ANSWER:  
Talos 
[10] Hephaestos also used bronze to craft the hooves of two bulls for King Aeëtes, who ruled this location, 
where Jason yoked the bulls and sowed dragon teeth in his quest for the Golden Fleece. 
ANSWER:  
Colchis 
004-09-12-05206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  7 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. This phenomenon sees the complete alignment of all of a material's molecular magnetic dipoles. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this most familiar form of magnetism present in nickel and cobalt. 
ANSWER:  
ferromagnet 
ism 
[10] This is the temperature above which a material cannot be ferromagnetic. 
ANSWER: the  
Curie 
 temperature [prompt on  
Tc 
] 
[10] This is the decrease in electron density in ferromagnetic materials when electron spins align. It results 
in a free energy decrease that explains ferromagnetism. So-called biasing of this mechanism can be 
achieved by layering ferro- and antiferromagnets and underpins computer hard drives. 
ANSWER: the  
exchange 
 mechanism [accept  
exchange 
 energy or  
exchange 
 bias] 
022-09-12-05207 
8. During the rule of his predecessor, this man assented to the shooting-down of Korean Airlines Flight 007 
and the invasion of Afghanistan. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Soviet General Secretary who was succeeded by Konstantin Chernenko, and who, as KGB 
director, ordered PROGRESS to crush Prague Spring, among his other dissent-suppressing policies. 
ANSWER: Yuri Vladimirovich  
Andropov 
[10] Andropov succeeded this manm who presided over a period of stagnation and signed SALT I with 
Richard Nixon, signaling the start of détente despite his namesake interventionist doctrine. 
ANSWER: Leonid Ilyich  
Brezhnev 
[10] During Andropov’s bed-ridden days, he regularly met with this diplomat nicknamed \"Mr. Nyet\" for 
being difficult to deal with. Nonetheless, he negotiated the ABM and Nuclear Test Ban Treaties during his 
nearly forty years as Soviet foreign minister. 
ANSWER: Andrei Andreyevich  
Gromyko 
020-09-12-05208 
9. The amount of this substance in the atmosphere is quantified in Dobson units. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this gas that, in the stratosphere, absorbs ultraviolet radiation. 
ANSWER:  
ozone 
 [or  
O 
3 
] 
[10] The relative lack of ozone is responsible for the temperature decrease with increasing altitude in this 
atmospheric layer above the stratosphere. 
ANSWER:  
mesosphere 
[10] The mechanism of ozonolysis involves the formation of molozonide and ozonide intermediates, both 
of which contain a ring with this many members. 
ANSWER:  
five 
003-09-12-05209 
10. James K. Polk was famously the only President to keep all of his campaign promises. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Perhaps the thorniest issue of the Polk administration was this act of territorial expansion, which ended 
the Presidential career of Anson Jones and raised the ire of Mexico. 
ANSWER: the  
annexation of 
 the Republic of  
Texas 
 by the United States [or obvious equivalents] 
[10] Illinois Congressman Abraham Lincoln introduced these bills, demanding that President Polk show 
exactly where American blood was spilled in skirmishes with Mexico over the Texas border, in an attempt 
to forestall war. 
ANSWER: the  
Spot Resolutions 
[10] Polk's promise to settle the Oregon dispute in the U.S.'s favor led to this latitudinal slogan, which 
would have created an American land border with the Russian Empire had it been achieved. 
ANSWER: \" 
fifty-four forty or fight 
\" 
019-09-12-05210 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  8 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. Answer these questions about muckrakers, for 10 points each. 
[10] This work by muckraker Jacob Riis used photographs to show the squalor found in New York 
tenements. 
ANSWER:  
How the Other Half Lives : Studies Among the Tenements of New York  
[10] Riis often walked the night beat with this New York City police commissioner who popularized the 
term muckraker. As president, this man used the Sherman Antitrust Act to enact his policy of trustbusting 
and signed the Pure Food and Drug Act into law. 
ANSWER:  heodore  
T Roosevelt 
 [or  
TR 
; or  
Teddy Roosevelt 
; prompt on  
Roosevelt 
] 
[10] The Pure Food and Drug Act was partially inspired by this author of a series of articles for  
Collier's 
Weekly 
 on dangerous medicines, \"The Great American Fraud.\" 
ANSWER: Samuel Hopkins  
Adams 
059-09-12-05211 
12. After Cerdanya was ceded to France in this treaty, the Reaper’s War ended as Catalonia was split in 
two. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this treaty that was signed on Pheasant Island between France and Spain. Its failure at ensuring 
the payment of a marriage dowry led to the War of the Devolution. 
ANSWER: Peace of the  
Pyrenees 
[10] This negotiator for the French in the Peace of the Pyrenees was a gambler who hated Jansenists and 
was co-regent with Anne of Austria before he was succeeded by Richelieu. 
ANSWER: Cardinal Jules  
Mazarin 
 [or Giulio Raimondo  
Mazarino 
] 
[10] Mazarin ruled during the early years of this French monarch who built Versailles (VURR sigh) and 
styled himself the Sun King. 
ANSWER:  
Louis XIV 
 [prompt on  
Louis 
] 
020-09-12-05212 
13. These ironclads could be powered by twenty oars, had spikes on their roofs to deter boarding parties, 
and had dragons' heads that could emit smoke on their prows. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these brainchildren of Admiral Sun-shin Yi, which twice destroyed a Japanese fleet. 
ANSWER:  
turtle ship 
s [or  
turtle boat 
s] 
[10] The turtle ship thus prevented two campaigns by Toyotomi Hideyoshi attempting to conquer this 
peninsula. 
ANSWER:  
Korea 
n Peninsula 
[10] The successful repulse of Japan extended the rule of this dynasty, under which the Hangul alphabet 
was created. It ruled until Japan finally conquered the peninsula in 1910. 
ANSWER:  
Choson 
 Dynasty [or  
Joseon 
 Dynasty; prompt on  
Yi 
] 
003-09-12-05213 
14. This character is cared for by F. Alexander after his prison sentence and he leads a gang composed of 
his “droogs” Georgie, Pete, and Dim. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who loves both classical music and ultraviolence, the protagonist of a 1962 
dystopian novel. 
ANSWER:  
Alex 
[10] The Nadsat speaking Alex is the protagonist of this novel by Anthony Burgess. 
ANSWER:  
A  Clockwork Orange 
[10] In  
A Clockwork Orange 
, Dr. Brodsky subjects Alex to this treatment, which causes him to associate 
classical music with violence and become unbearably sick whenever he hears it. 
ANSWER:  
Ludovico 
 technique 
015-09-12-05214 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  9 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. For bacteria, these elements can be conjugative if they are lengthy or mobilizable if they are smaller. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these mobile DNA sequences. 
ANSWER:  
transposons 
 [or  
transposable element 
s; or  
jumping genes 
] 
[10] This scientist discovered transposons in maize in the 1940s and received a Nobel Prize in 1983 for that 
discovery. 
ANSWER: Barbara  
McClintock 
[10] These transposons in  
Drosophila melanogaster 
 often insert at sites containing the octamer 
GGCCAGAC and can cause hybrid dysgenesis. Molecular biologists often use them in mutagenesis. 
ANSWER:  
P element 
s 
023-09-12-05215 
16. {yo: don't read the non-underlined portion of the answer to the second part if the team gets it wrong, 
lest you reveal the answer to part three} 
It is located about ten miles into the Atlantic from the mouth of the Kourou River, just up the coast from 
Cayenne. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this smallest member of the Îles du Salut, which was formerly both a leper and penal colony. 
ANSWER:  
Devil's Island 
 [or  
Île Du Diable 
] 
[10] Devil's Island is part of this South American political unit, whose current head of state is Nicholas 
Sarkozy. 
ANSWER: Overseas Department of  
French Guyana 
 [or Département d’Outre-Mer de la  
Guyane 
française 
] 
[10] Like Martinique, Réunion, and Gaudeloupe, French Guyana is one of these political units of France, 
which have equal status to areas on the European mainland despite being located elsewhere. 
ANSWER:  
overseas department 
019-09-12-05216 
17. This composer included a \"Ritual Fire Dance\" in his ballet  
El Amor Brujo 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer of  
The Three-Cornered Hat 
. 
ANSWER: Manuel de  
Falla 
 [FAH-yah] y Matheu 
[10] Manuel de Falla used melodies from this country to compose a series of \"symphonic impressions\" 
depicting nights in the gardens of this country. Isaac Albéniz [all-BAY-neath] incorporated flamenco 
rhythms into his piano suite about this country,  
Iberia 
. 
ANSWER:  
Spain 
 [or  
Espana 
] 
[10] This Spanish violinist adapted gypsy melodies into his composition  
Zigeunerweisen 
. Lalo's  
Symponie 
espagnole 
 is dedicated to this violinist, for whom Saint-Saens composed  
Introduction and Rondo 
Capriccioso 
. 
ANSWER: Pablo de  
Sarasate 
024-09-12-05217 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  10 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. This field of chemistry was developed by John Warner and Paul Anastas. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name that field of chemistry that as its name suggests attempts to be sustainable and avoid using 
hazardous products. 
ANSWER:  
green 
 chemistry 
[10] One of the focuses of green chemistry is using the supercritical form of this compound as a solvent. 
That supercritical form is being considered as a way to decaffeinate coffee. 
ANSWER:  
carbon dioxide 
 [or  
CO 
2 
] 
[10] Green chemistry uses atom economy as a measure of reaction efficiency, as opposed to this more 
common quantity proportional to the ratio of actual quantity of desired products to theoretically possible 
quantity of desired products. 
ANSWER:  
percent yield 
064-09-12-05218 
19. This story titles a collection that includes \"The Wife Killer\" and a story about the emigrations of the 
seven sons of Abba. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this story about a poor baker who is bullied by children, marries the promiscuous Elka, and who 
is advised by the Spirit of Evil to urinate in his bread dough. 
ANSWER: \" 
Gimpel the Fool 
\" [or \" 
Gimpel Tam 
\"] 
[10] \"Gimpel the Fool\" was written by this Polish-born Yiddish author, whose other stories include  
The 
Topsy-Turvy Emperor of China 
 and  
The Family Moskat 
. 
ANSWER: Isaac Bashevis  
Singer 
[10] In this Singer novel, the title character Yasha Mazur has an affair with Emilia Chrabotzky, who, along 
with Magda and Zeftel, he meets on his travels away from his wife Esther. 
ANSWER:  
The  Magician of Lublin 
 [or  
Der  Kuntsnmakher fun Lublin 
] 
020-09-12-05219 
20. This man painted a row of storefronts on a deserted street in  
Early Sunday Morning 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this artist who also painted a man and woman working late in his  
Office at Night 
 and another 
pair out on a house porch in  
Summer Evening 
. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Hopper 
[10] This Hopper painting shows a sign for five cent Phillies cigars above three customers sitting in a diner. 
ANSWER:  
Nighthawks 
[10] In this Hopper painting, which is similar to  
Chop Suey 
, a woman sits alone at a table in the title 
location with a cup of coffee in her hand. 
ANSWER:  
Automat 
023-09-12-05220 
21. Saint Augustine died during this tribe's siege of Hippo. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Germanic tribe which invaded Roman territory in North Africa in 428 CE. Under the 
leadership of Genseric, they sacked Rome in 455 CE. 
ANSWER:  
Vandal 
s 
[10] In 439, the Vandals successfully invaded this city, and made it the capital of their territory in North 
Africa. This city was destroyed by Scipio Aemilianus in 146 BCE during the Third Punic War. 
ANSWER:  
Carthage 
[10] The Vandals invaded North Africa during the reign of Emperor Valentinian III, who ordered the death 
of Flavius Aetius in 454 CE. While Aetius never got a chance to fend off the Vandals, he had earlier 
defeated Attila and the Huns at this battle in present-day France. 
ANSWER:  
Chalons 
 [or  
Catalaunian Plains 
; or  
Catalaunian Fields 
] 
004-09-12-05221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 5     Page  11 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
