NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 TOSSUPS  
1. This man controversially asked “do we want three more of the bastards out there?” as a way of  
explaining why he didn’t dismiss rebellious Cabinet members. In a speech, this man kicked off  
the “Back to Basics” campaign as a way of fighting the sex scandals of such party members as  
David Mellor and Stephen Milligan. During this man’s ministry, the pound sterling was  
withdrawn from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism on Black Wednesday, and Britain  
supported American involvement in the first Gulf War. For 10 points, name this Conservative  
British Prime Minister who succeeded Margaret Thatcher in 1990.  
ANSWER: Sir John  Major   
2. A statue previously located near this object had arrows thrown at it as an act of divination. The  
building containing this object was originally home to a series of \"dangling poems.\" It is located  
adjacent to a low semicircular wall, and a golden rainspout was added during a rebuilding of this  
object. This object was originally surrounded by a series of 360 idols, including a statue of  
Hubal. One corner of this object is lined up with the rising of the star Canopus, and another of its  
corners is the origin of a marble stripe. The act of Tawaf is done around this object, and involves  
circumambulating it seven times; that occurs during the Hajj. For 10 points, name this large  
black cube located in the Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, which sets the direction of prayer.  
ANSWER:  Kaaba   
3. This enzyme is suppressed when a subunit of it binds to PinX1. It contains a U-A.U (\"U A dot  
U\") major-groove triple helix within a pseudoknot. The ALT pathway is an alternative to this  
enzyme. The aforementioned subunit of this enzyme is the reverse transcriptase TERT, which is  
located on the short arm of chromosome 5 and is thus often missing in people with cri-du-chat  
syndrome. This enzyme is activated in 90% of cancer tumors. It was discovered in  Tetrahymena  
by Carol Greider and Elizabeth Blackburn, and its presence can stop cells from reaching the  
Hayflick limit. For 10 points, identify this enzyme that adds TTAGGG repeats to the ends of  
chromosomes.  
ANSWER:  telomerase   
4. This man required girlfriend Alexandra Castro to bring him a lab report proving she was HIV  
negative. Joyce Carol Oates compared this man's fate to being attacked by the President's drones.  
He legally changed his name from \"Tokowitz,\" saying his peers had trouble pronouncing it. This  
man, who purchased the Lesser Towers in the 1960s, was sued by the Housing Rights Center for  
claiming he would only rent to Korean tenants. He was sued by former employee Elgin Baylor,  
who alleged this man said he wanted lots of \"poor black boys from the South and a white head  
coach.\" This man was recorded objecting to V. Stiviano taking Instagram pictures with Magic  
Johnson. For 10 points, name this recently banned owner of the Los Angeles Clippers.  
ANSWER: Donald  Sterling  [or Donald  Tokowitz  until it is read] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 TOSSUPS  
5. This author wrote about a man nicknamed “Monkey-hide” who menaces his apprentices with  
a snake and an owl to see their reactions. In one story by this author, a thief who once spared the  
life of an insect falls back into the Lake of Fire after the Buddha sends him the title object. In  
another of his stories, a dead woman who apparently once sold snake meat as dried fish has her  
hair stolen by an old wig-maker. This author of “Hell Screen” and “Spider’s Thread” wrote a  
story that includes a section spoken by a ghost through a medium and a section in which a  
woodcutter is questioned by the High Police Commissioner about the murder of a samurai. For  
10 points, name this Japanese author of “Rashomon” and “In a Grove.”  
ANSWER: Ryunosuke  Akutagawa   
6. A 2011 paper on these methods by Gigerenzer and Gassmeier stressed their \"ecological  
rationality\" and briefly summarized the \"one-clever-cue\" example of them. These methods,  
which can fail due to \"attribute substitution,\" include a common one named for the  
representativness of a sample population. The likelihood of an example coming to mind is  
weighted heavily in one of these named for \"availability,\" explaining why many people falsely  
believe that car crashes are rarer than plane crashes. Along with biases, Daniel Kahneman  
studied these methods, which people use more frequently than algorithms or reason. For 10  
points, name these quick but often inaccurate mental \"rules of thumb\" used in decision-making.  
ANSWER:  heuristic s [prompt on  strategies ; prompt on  rule s; prompt on  decision -making  
methods; prompt on  problem-solving  methods; do not accept \"biases\"]  
7. A successful potash company was founded near this body of water, with a plant at Kalya.  
Benjamin Volcani wrote his doctoral thesis on a type of archaea found here. A town near this  
body of water, Ein Gedi, produced persimmon, and it is also near the Neve Zohar health resort.  
In the 1940s, Bedouin shepherds discovered objects at Wadi Qumran near this body of water. A  
structure here is supposedly that of the transformed Lot’s wife. The \"Cities of the Plain\" such as  
Zoar, as well as the sinful Sodom and Gomorra, were said to be near this body of water, which is  
the lowest elevation on land in the world. For 10 points, name this very salty lake in Israel.  
ANSWER:  Dead  Sea [or Yam ha  Melah ]  
8. This element is found with calcium and oxygen in colemanite, and sodium and oxygen in  
kernite. Rhenium bonded to two atoms of this element forms a superhard material that  
approaches that of diamond. Heterodiamond is made from explosive shock synthesis between  
diamond and this element’s nitride. Alfred Stock was the first to synthesize hydrides of this  
element, which when containing n + 1 electron pairs is classified as closo. More often, hydrides  
are classified as nido or arachno, according to Wade’s rules. Glass formed from silicon dioxide  
and this element’s trioxide is present in Pyrex glass. This element is unusually stable when it has  
only six electrons in its valence shell. For 10 points, identify this first element of group 13, with  
an atomic number of 5.  
ANSWER:  oron  b 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 TOSSUPS  
9. The associated frequency for a normal mode of a system is found by calculating this value for  
the equations of motion. These values lie in the union of Gerschgorin circles in the complex  
plane. They are always real for a Hermitian matrix, and their sum is equal to the trace.  
Multiplying three terms, the second of which contains these values, diagonalizes a matrix. They  
can be found by finding the determinant of the matrix resulting from a square matrix minus  
lambda, which are these values, times the identity matrix, which is equivalent to solving the  
characteristic polynomial. For 10 points, identify these special values for a matrix, which gives  
the scalar multiplier of an output vector when a matrix operates on an associated eigenvector.  
ANSWER:  eigenvalue s [or  characteristic  values until \"characteristic polynomial\" is read;  
prompt on lambda   ] 
10. During the quest for the Holy Grail, Gawain has a dream about 150 of these animals, 147 of  
them black and three white. Dirce, the mother of Amphion and Zethus, is killed by one of these  
creatures. Donn Cuailnge and Finnbhenach are two of these animals in Irish myth. The herald of  
Ptah at Memphis was usually represented by one of these animals. Queen Medb invades Ulster in  
order to steal one of these animals. Shiva's mount is one called Nandi. Apis is usually  
represented by one in Egyptian myth. Enkidu and Gilgamesh kill one of these animals sent by  
Ishtar from heaven in the Epic of Gilgamesh. For 10 points, name these animals, one of which  
terrorized Cretan youths as the Minotaur.  
ANSWER:  bull s [prompt on  cow s; prompt on  cattle ]  
11.  It's not Raman spectroscopy, but Ozaki, et al. developed a version of this technology using  
surface plasmons which captured multiple wavelengths at once. Surface displacements can be  
measured by using the \"frozen fringe\" form of this technique, which is a subtype of a form of  
interferometry named for it. Media used in this technique include dichromatic gelatin, and a form  
of digital microscopy based on this technique requires the use of a reconstruction algorithm  
based on the angular spectrum method. Originally invented by Dennis Gabor, this technique  
splits a laser beam into an object beam and a reference beam, which then cross on a recording  
apparatus. For 10 points, name this technique which can be used to generate three-dimensional  
images.  
ANSWER:  holography  [or generating  hologram s]  
12. This condition afflicts the narrator at the end of Sir John Mandeville's travelogue, a popular  
narrative in early Renaissance Europe. One sufferer of this non-congenital disease retired to a  
room with a huge collection of clocks in the monastery at Yuste after becoming the only Holy  
Roman Emperor to abdicate. Queen Anne was afflicted by this condition during her coronation.  
A January 1536 jousting accident aggravated this condition in a monarch whose legs began to  
ulcerate. For 10 points, name this condition which affected Charles V Habsburg and Henry VIII,  
a \"disease of kings\" in which uric acid buildup causes swollen inflammations in the limbs.  
ANSWER:  gout 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 TOSSUPS  
13. The nightdress-covered head of the corpse of this artist's mother may have influenced his  
painting of a couple titled  Les Amants.  This artist painted coffins in place of three women in his  
reimagining of  The Balcony.  He drew on the iconography of  Fantomas  for a painting of a man in  
front of a gramophone who is unaware of club- and net-wielding men lying in wait. This artist  
took leave of the Paris surrealists in 1930 to return to his home country, where he painted an  
indoor cannon in  On the Threshold of Liberty,  an easel depicting the landscape behind it in  The  
Human Condition,  raining men in  Golconda,  and a train jutting out from a fireplace in  Time  
Transfixed.  For 10 points, name this Belgian artist who enjoyed painting men in bowler hats.  
ANSWER: Rene  Magritte  [or Rene Francois Ghislain  Magritte ]  
14. In a poem about this attribute, the speaker states that he worked “in liberty’s defence, my  
noble task.” A character with this attribute is said to “need much washing to be touched” by a  
wrestler who won’t fight him because of it. The poem \"To Cyriack Skinner\" discusses this  
condition, while another poem about it claims that God’s “state is kingly” and refers to “that one  
talent which is death to hide.” That poem about this condition concludes, “They also serve who  
only stand and wait.” A character with this condition crushes his enemies and himself by pulling  
down a temple in Gaza. For 10 points, name this ailment discussed in “When I consider how my  
light is spent” that was shared by John Milton and Samson.  
ANSWER:  blind ness  
15. This event separates the \"Golden Era\" from the \"Open\" or \"Wide-Open Era\" in the place  
where it happened. Joseph and Isaac Cline's memoir of this event is entitled  When the Heavens  
Frowned.  A six-year old King Vidor survived this event, many of whose evacuees died aboard  
the Beaumont Train. In its aftermath, volunteers were plied with whiskey to heap bodies onto  
funeral pyres. The official telegram to President McKinley grossly underestimated this event's  
death toll at 500. The affected city in this event lost its status as the state's premiere shipping port  
to Houston. For 10 points, name this 1900 hurricane, the deadliest in American history, which  
wrecked a Texas town.  
ANSWER: Great  Galveston Hurricane  of 1900 [or  1900 Hurricane  before \"1900\" is read;  
accept  Galveston  after \"hurricane\" is read]  
16. Ai Weiwei installed a video recording of this sculpture while it was on loan to Shanghai for  
Expo 2010. A replica of this sculpture was installed in Greenville, Michigan, prompting a 2009  
lawsuit from the Artists Rights Society accusing it of violating copyright. Carl Jacobson  
commissioned this sculpture, which had ballerina Ellen Price model for the head and the  
sculptor's wife model for the nude body. Artists from the Situationist movement cut off this  
sculpture's head in 1964, inaugurating the venerable tradition of vandals cutting off its head and  
arms. This Edvard Eriksen sculpture is located on a rock in the harbor of Copenhagen. For 10  
points, name this sculpture depicting a female character from a Hans Christian Andersen story.  
ANSWER:  The  Little Mermaid  [or  Den  Lille Havfrue ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 TOSSUPS  
17. This dynasty was the first to require all able-bodied peasants to sign up for the fu-bing militia  
system. After the fall of this dynasty, the Battle of Bach Dang River granted Vietnam its  
independence. This dynasty fought three successive wars with the Goguryeo, Baekje, and Silla  
dynasties of Korea. Bo Juyi wrote the poem \"The Song of Everlasting Regret\" after the death of  
Yang Guifei during this dynasty, one of China’s Four Beauties. The period following this  
dynasty is referred to as the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period. A breakaway state during  
this dynasty began when Luoyang was seized by an army led by a Sogdian-Turkish general. For  
10 points, name this dynasty that followed the Sui dynasty, and suffered the An Lushan  
rebellion.  
ANSWER:  Tang  dynasty  
18. This section of a larger work compares a \"man of great virtue\" calming a riotous crowd to the  
settling of winds. A favorite line of Robert Fagles from this section is \"Forsan et haec olim  
meminisse iuvabit,\" meaning \"Perhaps someday even these things will be remembered with joy.\"  
The story of Pygmalion's murder of Sychaeus is related in this poetic section, in which Cupid sits  
in a woman's lap to inflame her passions in the guise of Ascanius. It opens with the phrase \"Arms  
and the man I sing,\" before invoking the muse to tell the causes of Juno's ire. For 10 points, name  
this segment among twelve which introduces Carthage's queen Dido in an epic by Virgil.  
ANSWER:  Book I  of the  Aeneid  [or obvious equivalents; prompt on the  Aeneid ; prompt on the  
opening  of the  Aeneid ]  
19. In one section of this piece, the basses speed up and play progressively higher before string  
tremolos and a gong hit signal a transition to a harp solo. In the penultimate portion of this  
composition, strings playing ascending chromatic lines are interrupted three times by whip  
cracks. The piccolo begins the fugue that ends this piece, in which woodwinds and strings play  
the fugue theme while the brass once again plays the tune, beginning with an ascending D minor  
arpeggio, from the incidental music to  Abdelazar.  This piece, commissioned for a documentary  
film, consists of a set of variations on a tune by Purcell. For 10 points, name this Benjamin  
Britten composition intended to demonstrate musical instruments to children.  
ANSWER:  The  Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra : Variations and Fugue on a Theme of  
Purcell  [or  A  Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra : Variations and Fugue on a Theme of  
Purcell ]  
20. This character recalls throwing money at starving children in Barcelona during a “talking  
jag” in one scene. He plans to buy a woman and “hump her from hell to breakfast.” This man is  
under the mistaken assumption he has a “spastic colon” and appears in a play in which his  
birthday party is held shortly after his return from the Ochsner Clinic. With his son, he discusses  
the homosexual attraction to Skipper. Unbeknownst to this man, he is dying of cancer, a fact his  
greedy family is concealing from him. This man is the father of Gooper and the former football  
star and husband of Maggie, Brick. For 10 points, name this wealthy cotton planter, the patriarch  
of the Pollitt family in Tennessee Williams’ play  Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.   
ANSWER:  Big Daddy  Pollitt [prompt on  Pollitt ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 TOSSUPS  
21. This author's characters include the wheelchair-bound Uncle Julian, who writes a book in an  
estate where silver dollars are planted by the creek and blackberries laced with arsenic killed half  
of Constance and Merricat Blackwood's family. In another of this author's novels, the possibly- 
lesbian artist Theodora and Luke Sanderson explore a place built by Hugh Crain, and a car crash  
kills the narrator, Eleanor Vance. This author of  We Have Always Lived in the Castle  included  
Old Man Warner in a story in which a black box is placed on a stool on June 27th. For 10 points,  
name this author of  The Haunting of Hill House,  who described Tessie Hutchinson's stoning in  
the twist ending to \"The Lottery.\"  
ANSWER: Shirley  Jackson   
22. Like methionine, a diazirine derivative of this amino acid is a photo-activateable crosslinker.  
A small type of proteoglycan rich in this amino acid includes decorin and lumican. Ribonuclease  
inhibitor contains a domain rich in repeats of it, which is also found in toll-like receptors. Like  
amino acids labelled I and V, this amino acid cannot be processed in sufferers of maple syrup  
urine disease. This amino acid is also the namesake of a domain found in c-Fos, c-Jun, and other  
transcription factors that allows them to form dimers; that domain is its namesake zipper. For 10  
points, name this amino acid which contains an isobutyl side chain and whose one-letter  
abbreviation is L.  
ANSWER:  leu cine [or  until it is read]  L  
23.  According to the Mishnah, an unsuccessful revolt against a governor under this Emperor  
resulted in a ban of garlands for brides on their wedding day and a moratorium on the Greek  
language. That governor was later executed by this Emperor’s successor, and was named Lusius  
Quietus. Pliny the Younger wrote to this emperor about the spread of early Christianity. A bridge  
crossing the Danube between Serbia and Romania is named for this emperor, and was designed  
by Apollodorus of Damascus. This man was given the title of optimus princeps, and his military  
conquest of Dacia was commemorated with a large, engraved pillar. For 10 points, name this  
second of the Five Good Emperors, under whose reign the Roman Empire extended to its  
greatest size, and who has a namesake column in Rome.  
ANSWER:  Trajan  [or Caesar Nerva  Traianus  Germanicus; or Caesar Divi Nervae Filius Nerva  
Traianus  Optimus Augustus] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 BONUSES  
1. A mutation in one isoform of this protein causes a condition in which the sclera of the eyes  
turn blue and bones are easily broken. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this triple helical protein that is abundant in connective tissue. Vitamin C is required  
for the enzymes that hydroxylate its proline and lysine residues.  
ANSWER:  collagen   
[10] Collagen is a key component of this general structure, which includes the basement  
membrane. This structure, which contains fibronectins, integrins, and elastins, holds cells  
together in tissues.  
ANSWER:  extracellular matrix  [or  ECM ]  
[10] A key component of the ECM, proteoglycans, consists of a core protein with a serine  
linkage to these polysaccharides, which include chondroitin sulfate and consist of repeating  
dimeric units.  
ANSWER:  GAG s [or  glycosaminoglycan s; or  mucopolysaccharides ]  
2. Answer some questions about the mathematician Gabriel Lamé, for 10 points each.  
[10] Lamé's theorem states that the greatest common devisor for two consecutive numbers in this  
sequence always leads to the worst case for the Euclidean algorithm. The nth term over the n  
minus one term in this sequence equals the golden ratio.  
ANSWER:  Fibonacci  sequence  
[10] The Lamé parameters are used to model this phenomenon, where materials return to their  
previous shape after suffering deformations.  
ANSWER: linear  elasticity   
[10] The Lamé curve is sometimes named the \"super\" version of this shape. This shape can be  
drawn using Archimedes's trammel or a method named for Van Schooten.  
ANSWER:  ellipse   
3. The namesake of this series was a Scottish lawyer who wished to \"promote and diffuse the  
study of natural theology...in other words, the knowledge of God.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this annual philosophy lecture series which includes a set given at the University of  
Edinburgh that were edited into William James's  The Varieties of Religious Experience.   
ANSWER:  Gifford  Lectures  
[10] This existential philosopher developed his \"method of correlation\" in his three-volume  
Systematic Theology,  which he recapped in his Gifford Lectures. His most popular book was  The  
Courage to Be.  
ANSWER:  Paul  Tillich  [or Paul Johannes  Tillich ]  
[10] This non-philosopher delivered the  Worlds in Microcosm  lecture, though he is best known  
for guaranteeing his status as a New Atheist leader by writing  The God Delusion,  in a far cry  
from the original purpose of the lectures.  
ANSWER: Richard  Dawkins  [or Clinton Richard  Dawkins ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 BONUSES  
4. Two members of the Daley family served as mayor of this city. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Midwestern city that was the base of power for the mobster Al Capone.  
ANSWER:  Chicago   
[10] The Near West Side of Chicago was the site of Hull House, which Jane Addams co-founded  
with this woman.  
ANSWER: Ellen Gates  Starr   
[10] In 1905, this labor union was founded in Chicago. It took a rearing cat as its logo.  
ANSWER:  nternational  orkers of the  orld [or  I W W Wobblies ]  
5. Name some important advances in metallurgy, for 10 points each.  
[10] The Thomas-Gilchrist converter improved on this process by using a basic lining instead of  
an acidic one. In this process, air is blown through pig iron to remove impurities and create steel.  
ANSWER:  Bessemer  process  
[10] The patio process used mule-powered devices called arrastras to process ores of this metal  
by forming a mercury amalgamation. The Washoe process was an improvement on pan  
amalgamation for recovering this element.  
ANSWER:  silver  [or  Ag ]  
[10] In extractive metallurgy, the effectiveness of coal or coke as a reducing agent for various  
metal oxides is easily determined on these diagrams, which plot Gibbs free energy vs.  
temperature. They are named for a British chemist.  
ANSWER:  Ellingham  diagrams  
6.  Answer the following about the McKinley presidency, for 10 points each.  
[10] The explosion of the  Maine  in 1898 led to the United States under McKinley to declare war  
on what country?  
ANSWER: Kingdom of  Spain  [or Reino de  Espana ]  
[10] At the Pan-American Exposition, McKinley was fatally shot by this anarchist.  
ANSWER: Leon  Czolgosz   
[10] Nelson Miles raised a fuss over the spoiled and subpar meat being shipped to soldiers in  
Puerto Rico, an event known as this scandal.  
ANSWER:  embalmed beef  scandal  
7. After being wounded, this hero takes the counsel of Odysseus to visit the priests of Hephaestus  
at Lemnos to cure his wound. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this son of Poeas and gifted archer of the Trojan war.  
ANSWER:  Philoctetes   
[10] Philoctetes was a disciple of this Greek hero, from whom he received his bow and poison- 
tipped arrows.  
ANSWER:  Heracles  [or  Hercules ]  
[10] The serpent bit Philoctetes on this non-Delos island sacred to Apollo. In the  Aeneid , the  
Greeks keep their fleet on this island while pretending to have left for home.  
ANSWER:  Tenedos 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 BONUSES  
8. A high F-sharp note in the 3/8-time, B-minor aria \"Hear ye, Israel\" in this composition was  
included specifically for the soprano Jenny Lind. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this oratorio that ends with the full-bodied chorus \"And then shall your light break  
forth.\" Its initial audience at the Birmingham Festival demanded a repetition of the episode in  
which the title character prays for rain, which happens at the end of Part I.  
ANSWER:  Elijah  [or  Elias ]  
[10] This composer's  Elijah  was seen as a huge improvement over his disappointing oratorio  
Paulus.  More successful ventures of his include the  Hebrides  overture and incidental music for  A  
Midsummer Night's Dream.   
ANSWER: Jakob Ludwig Felix  Mendelssohn  Bartholdy  
[10] Mendelssohn's greatest contribution to choral music may be the revival of Bach he ushered  
in with his truncated performance of this piece, which depicts the weeping of Peter and the  
suicide of Judas that take place in Chapters 26 and 27 of the namesake Gospel.  
ANSWER:  St. Matthew Passion  [or  St. Matthew's Passion ; or  Matthaus-Passion ; or  BWV  
244 ; or  Passio  Domini Nostri J.C. Secundum Evangelistam  Matthaeum ; or  The  Passion  of our  
Lord Jesus Christ according to the Evangelist  Matthew ; or any answer with  Passion  and  
Matthew  in it]  
9. One resident of this town, Will Ladislaw, moves to London to run for Parliament with his  
newly-disinherited wife. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this home town of the boring scholar Edward Casaubon and his wife Dorothea  
Brooke, the setting of a George Eliot novel which purports to be a \"Study of Provincial Life.\"  
ANSWER:  Middlemarch   
[10] This young doctor tries to reform medicine in Middlemarch before his marriage to  
Rosamond Vincy stifles his energies.  
ANSWER: Doctor  Tertius  Lydgate [or Doctor Tertius  Lydgate ]  
[10] This city is the site of Dorothea and Casaubon's honeymoon, where she sobs for hours over  
the \"deep impressions\" made by its wealth of real-life art and historic statuary.  
ANSWER:  Rome  [or  Roma ; or the  Vatican ]  
10.  Answer these questions about the War of Restoration, which began in 1640, for 10 points  
each.  
[10] The Restoration War ended a sixty-year period in which these two kingdoms were united  
uner one Habsburg monarch, as one of them seceded under the Braganza ruler Joao IV.  
ANSWER: Kingdoms of  Spain  and  Portugal  [accept  España  in place of \"Spain\"; prompt on  
\"Iberian Union\"]  
[10] At the time, the Spanish army was phasing out these matchlock proto-guns, a refinement of  
the hand-cannon, in favor of the musket. Portuguese guns of this type were traded to Japan and  
later used at Sekigahara.  
ANSWER:  arquebus es [or  harkbus es]  
[10] The policies of this heavy-handed prime minister of Spain, under Philip IV, contributed to  
Portuguese unrest. After the Duke of Alba's death, his decades of failure managing the Dutch  
revolt contributed to the surrender at Breda.  
ANSWER: Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of  Olivares 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 BONUSES  
11. Events in this revolution included pogroms committed by the Black Hundreds and the  
Potemkin Mutiny. For 10 points:  
[10] Name this revolution inspired in part by a humiliating defeat in a war against Japan that  
culminated in Bloody Sunday.?  
ANSWER: Russian Revolution of  1905   
[10] In the 1905 Revolution, this priest and organizer of the of the Assembly of Russian Factory  
Workers led protesters in a march on the Winter Palace. 130 people were shot to death in the  
march led by this man.  
ANSWER: Georgy  Gapon   
[10] The Revolution of 1905 forced Nicholas II to issue this document, which allowed for free  
speech and a popularly elected legislative body, the Duma.  
ANSWER:  October Manifesto   
12. The Gospel of Nicodemus says this man's name is \"Dismas.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this man who is not given a formal name in the New Testament. He asks his  
companion \"have you no fear of God?\" and then asks Jesus to remember him. Christ tells this  
person \"I say to you today you will be with me in paradise.\"  
ANSWER: the penitent  thief  on the cross [or  criminal  or other descriptions]  
[10] The only mention of the thief's penitence comes in this synoptic Gospel, which is also the  
only place the stories of the Prodigal Son and the Good Samaritan appear.  
ANSWER: Gospel of  Luke   
[10] Jesus tells this person at his crucifixion \"Here is your mother.\" This person asks Jesus who  
will betray him and is mentioned by Peter at the end of the Gospel of John. This unnamed person  
is traditionally thought to be the author John himself.  
ANSWER:  disciple whom Jesus loved  [or close equivalents]  
13. This character finds his wife Tereza a job as a photographer before they both have to flee the  
crushing of Prague Spring. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this surgeon who carries on an affair with Sabina in the novel  The Unbearable  
Lightness of Being.   
ANSWER:  Tomas   
[10] This Czech author of  The Book of Laughter and Forgetting  wrote  The Unbearable Lightness  
of Being.   
ANSWER: Milan  Kundera   
[10] In Kundera's novel  The Joke,  Ludvik writes on a light-hearted postcard that this trait \"is the  
opium of the people,\" for which he gets drafted into years of hard labor.  
ANSWER:  optimism 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 BONUSES  
14. After the Linen Workers' Guild complained about the unnatural proportions of this statue as  
seen from street level, the artist covered it in cloth, set it in the niche where it was supposed to be  
placed, and unveiled it to unanimous approval fifteen days later without having made any actual  
changes. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this statue that realisticly displays the veins in the left hand of the title religious man,  
who holds a book to his hip and relaxes as he lightly twists his body.  
ANSWER:  Saint Mark   
[10] This Florentine sculptor of  Saint Mark  created a bronze statue of David that was the first  
freestanding male nude since antiquity, and he depicted Erasmo da Narni on horseback in his  
Gattamelata.   
ANSWER:  Donatello  [or Donato di  Niccolo di Betto Bardi ]  
[10]  Saint Mark  and Nanni di Banco's sculpture group  Four Saints  are located along the facade  
of this Florentine church, which was built on the site of a kitchen garden of a monastery of St.  
Michael.  
ANSWER:  Orsanmichele   
15. The namesake of this set of equations added the term for the displacement current to correct  
Ampère's law. For 10 points each:  
[10] What set of four equations includes both of Gauss's laws, Faraday's law, and Ampère's law?  
ANSWER:  Maxwell's  equations [do not accept \"Maxwell's relations\"]  
[10] The displacement current in Maxwell's differential formulation of Ampère's law is given by  
this operation applied to the electric displacement field. The curl of electric field is equal to this  
operation applied to the B field.  
ANSWER:  time derivative  [or obvious equivalents]  
[10] The magnetic energy per unit length of what configuration is controlled by both the square  
of the current and the natural log of the ratio of outer and inner radii, according to Ampère's law?  
ANSWER:  coax ial cable [prompt on  cable ]  
16. Answer the following about a possibly Altaic language, for 10 points each.  
[10] This language of seventy million speakers is often transliterated by the McCune-Reischauer  
system and is written by its northern speakers as Choson kul.  
ANSWER:  Korean  [or  Hangungmal ; or  Hangungeo ; prompt on  Choson mal ]  
[10] Previously known as Onmon, this is the South Korean name for the syllabic script dating  
from 1443.  
ANSWER:  Hangul   
[10] This system of transliterating Korean includes macrons and the letter \"q\" and is primarily  
used by linguists. It was devised by Samuel Martin at a university which also has namesake  
transliterations of three other Asian languages.  
ANSWER:  Yale 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 BONUSES  
17. This location was built by Jim Reinders and dedicated at the 1987 summer solstice. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this tourist destination found near Alliance, Nebraska. It is a replica of the English  
Stonehenge, except it uses mechanical materials which are covered with gray spray paint.  
ANSWER:  Carhenge   
[10] Carhenge should not be confused with the sort of similar \"Cadillac Ranch\" art installation  
located in this state's city of Amarillo.  
ANSWER:  Texas   
[10] Another replica of Stonehenge, Maryhill, was built in this state to honor residents of  
Klickitat County who died in World War I. Klickitat County was named for a tribe native to this  
modern-day state.  
ANSWER:  Washington   
18. In a poem by this author, Bluebeard reveals “here is no treasure hid...no heads of women  
slain” and states, “This now is yours. I seek another place.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this author who described the “terrible day when first the shaft into his vision shone  
of light anatomized!” in the sonnet “Euclid alone has look on Beauty bare.”  
ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent  Millay   
[10] Millay’s poem “First Fig” tells “foes and...friends” that one of these items “burns at both  
ends” and “will not last the night.”  
ANSWER: a  candle   
[10] In a “ballad” by Millay, an impoverished mother freezes to death after weaving clothes for  
her son with one of these instruments.  
ANSWER: a  harp  [or “Ballad of the  Harp -Weaver”]  
19. Objects in this painting, such as coins, buttons, and tacks, give it a three-dimensional texture  
even though those objects are barely visible. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this early example of drip painting that is dominated by lines of black, white, and  
blue. It takes its title from a line spoken by Ariel in  The Tempest.   
ANSWER:  Full Fathom Five   
[10]  Full Fathom Five  is a painting by this abstract expressionist, who earned the nickname  
\"Jack the Dripper\" for the style of painting he developed.  
ANSWER: Jackson  Pollock   
[10] This art critic, who championed Jackson Pollock, is perhaps best known for his essay  
\"Avant-Garde and Kitsch,\" in which he claimed that avant-garde was necessary to prevent the  
dumbing down of culture.  
ANSWER: Clement  Greenberg 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 1 BONUSES  
20. The protagonist of this story must pay two dollars a month to Mr. Hawkins after accidentally  
killing Jenny the mule. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this short story about Dave Saunders, a young black man obsessed with purchasing a  
gun to prove he is no longer a boy. He ends this story by taking his gun and getting on a train.  
ANSWER: \"The  Man Who Was Almost a Man \" [or \" Almos' a Man \"]  
[10] \"The Man Who Was Almost a Man\" is by this author, who described his own experiences in  
Black Boy.   
ANSWER: Richard  Wright   
[10] This other author castigated Wright's depiction of Bigger Thomas in the essay collection  
Notes of a Native Son.  He also wrote the autobiographical novel  Go Tell It On the Mountain.   
ANSWER: James  Baldwin   
21. This technique commonly uses a twenty-nucleotide probe and requires permeabilization of  
the target cells. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this technique in which a fluorescently-labelled strand of DNA is injected into a cell  
in order to find particular DNA segments.  
ANSWER:  FISH  [or  Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization ]  
[10] FISH is often used to find gene duplications. Gene duplications of certain genes can cause  
this condition, in which cells grow out of control and form tumors.  
ANSWER:  cancer   
[10] Another use of oligonucleotide probes is in these devices, in which thousands of probes are  
spotted onto a wafer. Though largely replaced by sequencing, these devices are commonly used  
to measure the expression of many genes simultaneously.  
ANSWER: DNA or RNA  microarray  [or DNA or RNA  chip ] 
