Colonia Tournament 
Round 3 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. This author of \"The Devil and Tom Walker\" used the name Launcelot Langstaff to publish the periodical  
Salmagundi 
. Another work by this author features a Halloween story about a Hessian trooper whose head is 
blown off by a cannon ball. That short story by this author ends when the horse Gunpowder returns without 
its rider and only a smashed pumpkin is found. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Sketchbook of 
Geoffrey Crayon 
 who wrote about the bully Brom Bones and the schoolteacher Ichabod Crane in \"The 
Legend of Sleepy Hollow.\" 
ANSWER: Washington  
Irving 
034-10-14-03101 
2. After a visit to this nation, Mikhail Glinka wrote an orchestral piece about a summer night in this nation's 
capital. \"Evocacion\" [eh-vo-kah-see-own] opens one composer's suite of twelve works about this nation. 
Another composer from this nation wrote a ballet,  
The Three-Cornered Hat 
, as well as three nocturnes for 
piano and orchestra entitled  
Nights in the Gardens of 
 this nation. For 10 points, name this nation that is the 
subject of the  
Iberia 
 suite, home to the composers Isaac Albeniz and Manuel de Falla. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Spain 
 [or Reino de  
Espana 
] 
036-10-14-03102 
3. This novel's main character is jailed for nearly killing Mr. Fitzpatrick in a duel. The title character of this 
novel is often beaten by his pedantic tutor Thwackum, and becomes the rival of Blifil after being taken in by 
Squire Allworthy as an infant. At the end of this novel, the title character discovers that he was not born a 
bastard, allowing him to marry Sophia Western. For 10 points, name this novel about a \"foundling\" by 
Henry Fielding. 
ANSWER:  
The History of  Tom Jones , a Foundling 
004-10-14-03103 
4. This President signed a bill allowing use of the line-item veto that was later overturned. The AmeriCorps 
program was created during this man's presidency. Members of this man's cabinet included Robert Reich 
and Warren Christopher, the latter of whom helped to broker the Oslo Accords. This President appointed 
Stephen Breyer to the Supreme Court. This man approved the \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy in the army. For 
10 points, name this President whose tenure was marked by the Whitewater and the Lewinsky scandals, and 
whose wife is the current Secretary of State. 
ANSWER: William Jefferson  
Clinton 
038-10-14-03104 
5. The Imperial Colors Incident was a failed uprising against this ruler. This man was the son of Taisho, and 
during one war this ruler's country was led by Prime Minister Tojo. During his reign, the Mukden and Marco 
Polo Bridge incidents happened. A failed military coup attempted to destroy a \"jewel record\" of this man 
announcing his country's unconditional surrender after Bock's Car and the Enola Gay dropped nuclear 
weapons on his nation. For 10 points, name this Emperor of Japan during World War Two. 
ANSWER:  
Hirohito 
021-10-14-03105 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  1 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. At one point in this novel, the protagonist plays jazz at the club Onion Cellar. Earlier, the protagonist of 
this work claims that he is Jesus and leads the Dusters in stealing government supplies from offices. In this 
work, Agnes dies from eating fish obsessively and Alfred dies by swallowing a Nazi party pin. Like the 
clown Bebra, the protagonist of this work refuses to grow past age three remains a dwarf. For 10 points, 
Oskar Matzerath constantly holds the title instrument in what first work of the Danzig Trilogy, written by 
Günter Grass? 
ANSWER:  
The  Tin Drum 
 [ 
Die  Blechtrommel 
] 
034-10-14-03106 
7. Playfair's Postulate states that, given a point and a line, only one object with this property can be 
constructed. That postulate is logically equivalent to Euclid's fifth postulate, which is sometimes named after 
this property. Corresponding angles are equal if the transverse line generating them intersects two lines with 
this property. This property is exhibited by two lines that have the same slope but different intercepts. For 10 
points, give this property that is exhibited by any two coplanar lines that do not intersect. 
ANSWER:  
parallel 
ity 
003-10-14-03107 
8. The Treaty of Kiel ceded this country to Sweden. This country's king Harold Hardrada lost the Battle of 
Stamford Bridge. This country was traditionally ruled by kings named Haakon. This nation was converted to 
Christianity under its king St. Olaf. During World War II, this country was led by the Nazi collaborator 
Vidkun Quisling. For 10 points, name this Scandinavian country whose capital is Oslo. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Norway 
 [or Kongeriket  
Norge 
] 
004-10-14-03108 
9. This man portayed the role of Rodolfo in his debuts in Vienna, London, Milan, and New York. His 
portrayal of Tonio in  
The Daughter of the Regiment 
 earned him the title \"King of the High Cs.\" His last 
public appearance was at the 2006 Winter Olympics, where the crowd sang the chorus of Puccini's  
Nessun 
Dorma 
. He became world famous by performing in a trio with Placido Domingo and Jose Carreras. For 10 
points, name this Italian member of the Three Tenors. 
ANSWER: Luciano  
Pavarotti 
047-10-14-03109 
10. This rebellion was sparked by a Doeg raid on the farm of Thomas Matthews. John Ingram led the rebels 
in this conflict once its leader died of dysentery. This rebellion was ended by the Treaty of Middle Plantation 
after Governor William Berkeley finally regained control of the colony. In this rebellion, disgruntled 
frontiersman took up arms against Native Americans and burned the capital of Jamestown. For 10 points, 
name this rebellion led by the namesake member of the House of Burgesses in 1676 in Virginia. 
ANSWER:  
Bacon 
's Rebellion 
035-10-14-03110 
11. One composer from this country wrote a piece subtitled \"An Oriental Fantasy.\" Another man composed 
a Black Mass Sonata and a White Mass Sonata.  
The Scythian Suite  
 was composed by a man from here, as 
well as a piece in which Emperor Paul demands that Lieutenant Kije be brought to him.  
Islamey 
 is a work by 
a composer from this country, which is also home to the composers of  
In the Steppes of Central Asia 
 and a 
certain \"Eastern Festival Overture.\" For 10 points, name this country home to Alexander Borodin and 
Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov. 
ANSWER:  
Russia 
033-10-14-03111 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  2 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. Neil Bartlett created the hexafluoroplatinate (HEX-uh-FLOOR-oh-PLAT-in-ate) of one element in this 
family, which was the first compound using a member of this family to violate the octet rule. The only 
known radioactive element in this family is the leading cause of lung cancer to non-smokers. These elements 
are defined as having a full electron shell, leading to their relative inertness. For 10 points, name this group 
found at the extreme right of the Periodic Table, which includes xenon and radon. 
ANSWER:  
noble gas 
es [or Group  
18 
; or Group  
VIIIA 
 (eight-A); or  
inert gas 
es before \"inertness\"] 
003-10-14-03112 
13. Bayard (BAY-urd) Rustin was responsible for organizing the logistics of this event. John Lewis, the 
youngest person to speak at this event, controversially criticized John F. Kennedy in his speech. The most 
famous speech given at this event mentioned coming to this event's location to \"cash a check\" and expressed 
hope that \"this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed.\" For 10 points, name this 1963 
protest rally \"for Jobs and Freedom\" that featured Martin Luther King's \"I Have a Dream\" speech, which 
took place at the Lincoln Memorial. 
ANSWER: the 1963  
March on Washington 
 for Jobs and Freedom 
038-10-14-03113 
14. This author instructed the title character to \"go to the Western gate\" in his poem \"Luke Havergal.\" This 
creator of the fictional Tilbury Town wrote of a man who was \"born too late\" and \"coughed, and called it 
fate, and kept on drinking.\" In addition to that poem about a \"child of scorn,\" this poet wrote about a man 
observed by the \"people on the pavement\" whenever he went downtown. That character created by this man 
inexplicably \"went home and put a bullet through his head.\" For 10 points, name this American poet, the 
creator of \"Miniver Cheevy\" and \"Richard Cory.\" 
ANSWER: Edwin Arlington  
Robinson 
025-10-14-03114 
15. The title character of this work drew a picture of a boa constrictor that ate an elephant that adults view as 
a hat. A fox in this work informs the title character that he must be tamed before he can be a friend, and a 
talking rose prompts the main character to go on a journey. The title character of this work is a native of 
planet B612 and is taken to other worlds by a flock of birds. For 10 points, name this work about a 
diminutive monarch by Antoine de Saint-Exupery. 
ANSWER:  
The  Little Prince 
 [or  
Le  Petit Prince 
] 
030-10-14-03115 
16. People with this disease often suffer from Kaposi's (kuh-\"POSE\"-eez) sarcoma. When first discovered, 
this disease was called GRID, which was an acronym describing the population it was then most prevalently 
discovered in. This disease can be treated with HAART, a cocktail of multiple anti-viral drugs. This disease 
attacks helper T cells, leading to a weakening of the immune system. For 10 points, name this disease caused 
by the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV. 
ANSWER:  
AIDS 
 [or  
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome 
; prompt on  
GRID 
 before mentioned; 
prompt on  
Gay-Related Immune Deficiency 
 before \"GRID\"; do not prompt on or accept \"HIV\"] 
021-10-14-03116 
17. In Australia, this food item is stuffed with oysters to form a dish called \"Carpetbag.\" Another variant of 
this food item is eaten mostly in Scotland and is called the Pope's Eye. Controversy exists over whether this 
food can properly be used to make Chateaubriand (SHAT-oh-bree-AHND). Most Mexican dishes that are 
based on this food employ its \"skirt\" variety. The filet mignon is included in the Porterhouse or T-bone kind 
of this food. For 10 points, identify this cut of beef, which can be combined with lobster or shrimp in a \"surf 
and turf.\" 
ANSWER:  
steak 
019-10-14-03117 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  3 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. This man dialogued with Hulrych Zwingli (ULL-rick ZWING-lee) at the Marburg Colloquy. This man 
was protected by Frederick the Wise and Phillip of Hesse. This man created the first German translation of 
the Bible. This man debated Johann Tetzel after Tetzel visited this man's hometown. This man was called by 
Holy Roman Emperor Charles V to the Diet of Worms (VORMS). This man was a friend of Philip 
Melanchthon (muh-LANCH-thon). This man attacked the idea of indulgences when he posted his  
The 
Ninety-Five Theses 
 on the church door of Wittenberg. For 10 points, name this early leader of the Protestant 
Reformation. 
ANSWER: Martin  
Luther 
015-10-14-03118 
19. This country's southwest is the autonomous province of Ajaria. The northwestern extension of this 
country is another ethnic enclave called Abkhazia. The most recent area of contention in this country is a 
region in its central north centered on Tshkinvali, where forces from this country fought with Russian troops 
in the fall of 2008. This country, which claims control over the breakaway region of South Ossetia, is a 
Caucasian state that borders Azerbaijan, Armenia, Turkey, Russia, and the Black Sea. For 10 points, name 
this country that shares its name with a U.S. state. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Georgia 
 [or  
Sakartvelo 
s Respublika] 
019-10-14-03119 
20. Production of this hormone is stimulated by FSH and LH. Replacement therapies for this hormone may 
lead to higher levels of breast cancer and stroke. The contraceptive Depo-Provera (DEP-oh-pro-VAIR-uh) 
notably does not contain this hormone. Osteoporosis in older women is in part caused by a deficiency of this 
type of sex hormone, which promotes breast development and ovulation. For 10 points, name this class of 
female sex hormone. 
ANSWER:  
estrogen 
032-10-14-03120 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  4 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 3 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. This leader, who was born at Tintagel Castle, was raised by Ector because he was conceived out of 
wedlock. He left for the Isle of Avalon to heal his wounds after fighting his son Mordred at the Battle of 
Camlan. After his struggle against Carmelide, he married that king's daughter Guinevere despite Merlin's 
warnings. For 10 points, Camelot belonged to what son of Igraine and Uther Pendragon, who wielded the 
sword Excalibur and led the Knights of the Round Table? 
ANSWER: King  
Arthur 
034-10-14-03121 
2. Animals extant during this period include  
Edaphosaurus 
 and  
Dimetrodon 
, and the dominant lifeforms 
during this period were therapsids, the direct ancestors of mammals. Gymnosperms became the dominant 
form of plant life during this period. During this period, the supercontinent of Pangaea was formed. This was 
the last period of the Paleozoic Era. For 10 points, name this period lasting from approximately 290 to 248 
million years ago, which ended with the largest mass extinction ever recorded on Earth. 
ANSWER:  
Permian 
 Period 
003-10-14-03122 
3. This man fought Argentina's dictator Juan Manuel de Rosas as the leader of the Uruguayan navy. During 
the U.S. Civil War, Abraham Lincoln offered this man a Union command. Following the treaty of 
Villafranca di Veroni, this man became an enemy of Camillo di Cavour. This man led the Expedition of the 
Thousand in his conquest of Sicily. For 10 points, name this leading figure of the Risorgimento, who led the 
Red Shirts in his efforts to unify Italy. 
ANSWER: Giuseppe  
Garibaldi 
030-10-14-03123 
4. This woman wrote a book in which Pearl learns that Jimmie Louie isn't her biological father,  
The Kitchen 
God's Wife 
. Another of her works follows a group of tourists who vanished while in Burma and is narrated 
by the dead tour guide Bibi Chen,  
Saving Fish From Drowning 
. Her most famous work tells of a daughter 
who tries to replace her dead mother in the titular group of four Chinese immigrant women. For 10 points, 
name this Chinese-American author of  
The Joy Luck Club 
. 
ANSWER: Amy  
Tan 
032-10-14-03124 
5. This author wrote a novel that begins and ends in the middle of the same sentence. Another of this man's 
novels opens with a lullaby about a moocow that meets Baby Tuckoo. This author wrote about Gabriel 
Conroy's realization about his wife Gretta in his short story “The Dead.” He created the character Buck 
Mulligan in a novel that features a Jewish businessman who is cuckolded by Molly. For 10 points, name this 
author of  
Finnegans Wake A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man Dubliners 
,  ,  , and a book about Leopold 
Bloom,  
Ulysses 
. 
ANSWER: James Augustine Aloysius  
Joyce 
027-10-14-03125 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  5 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. The First Letter to the Corinthians states that this figure was the first to see Jesus risen. In Matthew, this 
figure attempted to imitate Jesus by walking on water, but failed. This man argued with Paul over the 
importance of circumcision for Christians. This man asked Jesus to wash not only his feet but his also head 
and hands before the Last Supper, and he was called a \"fisher of men\" along with his brother, Andrew. For 
10 points, name this apostle who betrayed Jesus three times and was \"rock\" upon which Jesus built his 
Church, the first pope. 
ANSWER: Simon  
Peter 
 [or  
Petros 
; or  
Cephas 
; or  
Kepha 
s] 
005-10-14-03126 
7. This figure seduced Leuce (LAY-woo-kay) and then transformed her into a white poplar tree. According 
to  
The Iliad 
, Heracles wounded this man at Pylos. In one myth, this man allowed Eurydice (you-RE-de-see) 
to leave his realm, but only on the condition that Orpheus not look back until they reached the surface. With 
his brothers, Poseidon and Zeus, this man defeated the Titans. His namesake realm was guarded by Cerberus 
and bordered by the river Styx (sticks). For 10 points, name this Greek god of the underworld. 
ANSWER:  
Hades 
005-10-14-03127 
8. In one poem, this author called science the \"true daughter of old time.\" This author also wrote the poem 
\"The Conqueror Worm,\" which appears in his story in which Lady Rowena becomes the title character, 
\"Ligeia.\" In another story by this man, Montresor describes how he got his revenge on Fortunato. Several of 
his stories feature the detective C. Auguste Dupin, including \"The Purloined Letter.\" For 10 points, name 
this American writer known for such poems as \"Lenore\" and \"The Raven.\" 
ANSWER: Edgar Allan  
Poe 
024-10-14-03128 
9. This organism's teeth were described as \"lethal bananas\" rather than the typical flat blades seen in other 
contemporary carnivorous animals. Fossils of this organism have been almost exclusively confined to 
western North America, though a similar species,  
Tarbosaurus bataar 
 (TAR-bo-SOR-us buh-TAR), was 
discovered in the Gobi Desert. In 2007, a collagen sample from this relative of Albertosaurus was found to 
be homologous to that of chickens. For 10 points, name this largest-known terrestrial carnivore. 
ANSWER:  
Tyrannosaurus  rex 
 [or  
T. rex 
] 
003-10-14-03129 
10. Projects like LIGO are searching for hypothetical waves caused by this force. The Standard Model 
predicts that this force is carried by a massless, spin-2 particle, though it has yet to be observed. Unlike the 
other fundamental forces, this one cannot be renormalized in quantum field theory, leading to alternate 
theories of its operation like string theory. The principle of equivalence says that the effects of this force are 
indistinguishable from acceleration. For 10 points, name this force described by general relativity, the 
attraction that occurs between any two massive objects. 
ANSWER:  
gravity 
028-10-14-03130 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  6 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
1. A \"complete\" form of this phenomenon is known as the Meissner effect. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this phenomenon, in which a material reacts in the presence of an external magnetic field to 
create another opposing field. 
ANSWER:  
diamagnetism 
 [accept word forms] 
[10] Diamagnetism is particularly strong in these materials, which display zero resistance, allowing current 
to flow through them remarkably easily. 
ANSWER:  
superconductor 
s 
[10] Diamagnetism is used for real-life implementations of this effect, in which objects float above the 
ground with no physical support. High-speed trains employ this technique, and parlor-trick magicians create 
the illusion of this effect. 
ANSWER:  
levitation 
 [accept word forms] 
022-10-14-03101 
2. In this satirical work written by a certain \"Monsieur le docteur Ralph,\" the title character flees to Paraguay 
after the Lisbon earthquake. 
[5] Name this work, in which Pangloss maintains his optimism despite being hanged for heresy and getting 
syphilis. 
ANSWER:  
Candide , ou l'Optimisme 
[15]  
Candide 
 is a major work of this French Enlightenment writer, who also wrote about the Babylonian 
philosopher Zadig. 
ANSWER:  
Voltaire 
 [accept Francois Marie  
Arouet 
] 
[15] At the end of the novella, Candide settles down happily to tend his garden with this hideous girlfriend, 
whom he rescued by killing Don Issachar and the Grand Inquisitor. 
ANSWER:  
Cunégonde 
[20] Voltaire also wrote one of the first science-fiction stories, a 1752 tale about this twelve-thousand-foot 
alien from the Sirius system who comes to Earth chiefly for the purpose of mocking Voltaire's theological 
opponent William Derham. 
ANSWER:  
Micromegas 
034-10-14-03102 
3. John Harlan's dissent in this case insisted that the \"Constitution is color-blind.\" 
[5] Name this 1896 case which upheld a law creating separate train compartments for blacks and whites, 
effectively legalizing segregation for over fifty years. 
ANSWER:  
Plessy  v. Ferguson 
[10] The decision in  
Plessy v. Ferguson 
 was overturned by this 1954 case, which urged the desegregation of 
public schools \"with all deliberate speed.\" 
ANSWER:  
Brown  v. Board of Education of Topeka 
[15] This 1967 case further eroded legal segregation by striking down a state law which prohibited 
interracial marriage. 
ANSWER:  
Loving  v. Virginia 
[20] Another important case in desegregation history was a 1971 ruling permitting the use of mandatory 
busing to create racial diversity, which was named for James Swann's suit against this city. 
ANSWER:  
Charlotte 
, North Carolina 
004-10-14-03103 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  7 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. The composer used texts from Revelations and Prophets for this work, as in the tenor aria \"Every valley 
shall be exalted.\" 
[5] Name this oratorio with a famous \"Hallelujah\" chorus. 
ANSWER:  
The Messiah 
[10] This composer of  
The Messiah 
 also wrote  
Zadok the Priest 
, a coronation anthem for King George II. 
ANSWER: Georg Friedrich  
Handel 
[15] Handel composed this suite in honor of George I's procession on the River Thames. It includes \"Air\" 
and \"Hornpipe\" movememnts. 
ANSWER:  
Water Music 
[20] Many of Handel's operas premiered at the Royal Opera House, which was known informally by this 
name of the surrounding neighborhood ever since its redesign by Inigo Jones. 
ANSWER:  
Covent Garden 
032-10-14-03104 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  8 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 3 
Four 10-Part Team Rounds 
NUMBERS 
PIRATES 
SPELLING 
SEVEN 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  9 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NUMBERS 
Some answers in this round include numbers. Other answers contain clues that mention numbers. 
[10] This king of England succumbed to madness after the American colonies won indepence from his rule. 
ANSWER:  
George III 
 [prompt on  
George 
] 
[10] This modernist author of  
Three Lives 
 wrote a fictional biography of her longtime partner Alice B. 
Toklas. 
ANSWER: Gertrude  
Stein 
[10] This artist painted an unusual self portrait depicting him with seven fingers, as well as  
I And the Village 
. 
ANSWER: Marc  
Chagall 
[10] Negative two hundred seventy three point fifteen degrees Celsius is equivalent to this coldest possible 
temperature. 
ANSWER:  
absolute zero 
 [or  
zero degrees Kelvin 
] 
[10] This hero killed the Hydra and cleaned the Augean stables as part of his twelve labors for King 
Eurystheus. 
ANSWER:  
Hercules 
 [or  
Heracles 
] 
[10] This detective solves mysteries in the novels  
The Sign of Four 
 and  
A Study in Scarlet 
. 
ANSWER: Sherlock  
Holmes 
[10] This is the number of degrees in the internal angle of a pentagon. 
ANSWER:  
one hundred and eight 
[10] This last of the Five Good Emperors was succeeded by his son Commodus and advocated Stoicism in 
his  
Meditations 
. 
ANSWER:  
Marcus Aurelius 
[10] According to the Gospel of Matthew, Judas Iscariot betrays Jesus in exchange for this many pieces of 
silver. 
ANSWER:  
thirty 
[10] This massive dam on the Yangtze River was completed in 2008, and is currently the largest 
hydroelectric plant in the world. 
ANSWER:  
Three Gorges 
 Dam [or  
San Xia 
 Dam] 
004-10-14-0310-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  10 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
PIRATES 
[10] Ragnar Danneskjold is a pirate in this novel featuring executive Dagny Taggart. 
ANSWER:  
Atlas Shrugged 
[10]  
The Pirate 
 is also a novel by this author of  
Ivanhoe 
 and  
Waverly 
. 
ANSWER: Sir Walter  
Scott 
[10] This English pirate attacked Spanish forces at Maracaibo and Panama while operating out of Port 
Royal. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Morgan 
[10] This other English pirate circumnavigated the globe in  
The Golden Hind 
. 
ANSWER: Francis  
Drake 
[10] Black gunpowder used by pirates contained the sodium salt of this polyatomic ion with formula NO3-. 
ANSWER:  
nitrate 
[10] Pirate ships can stay afloat due to this principle that states a floating object displaces its own weight of 
the fluid it is in. 
ANSWER:  
Archimedes 
 principle 
[10]  
The Pirates of Penzance 
 is a comic opera with music and libretto by this duo who also worked on  
The 
Mikado 
 and  
HMS Pinafore 
. 
ANSWER: W.S.  
Gilbert 
 and Arthur  
Sullivan 
[10] This Greek god of the theater turned a group of pirates into dolphins. 
ANSWER:  
Dionysus 
 [do not accept “Bacchus”] 
[10] Goods smuggled by pirates are an example of this sector of an economy not regulated by the 
government. 
ANSWER:  
informal 
 sector 
[10] Piracy has been a major problem in this East African nation with capital at Mogadishu. 
ANSWER:  
Somalia 
064-10-14-0310-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  11 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
SPELLING 
All of the answers in this category are taken from the 2010 New Zealand Vegemite Spelling Bee Word List. 
No, you do not have to spell them. 
[10] What literary term refers to the repetition of sounds within a phrase or sentence, and can be divided into 
consonance and assonance? 
ANSWER:  
alliteration 
[10] Rudyard Kipling's Kim O'Hara, and Harvey Birch, the title character of an early James Fenimore 
Cooper novel, are in what line of work also seen in John le Carre novels? 
ANSWER:  
espionage 
 [accept reasonable equivalents such as  
spy 
ing] 
[10] What school of philosophy preaches that its namesake doctrine \"precedes essence\"? Its proponents 
include Jean-Paul Sartre. 
ANSWER:  
existentialism 
[10] Max Wertheimer, Wolfgang Kohler, and Kurt Koffka were members of what school of psychology, 
which studies how humans perceive an object as a whole instead of made from individual parts? 
ANSWER:  
Gestalt 
[10] What is the term for a triangle in which two of the sides are the same length and the third side is a 
different length? 
ANSWER:  
isosceles 
[10] Name the type of secular, polyphonic vocal chamber music that began in fourteenth-century Italy and 
was rediscovered in Elizabethan England. Its name has since been appropriated to describe a choir that 
specializes in a capella music. 
ANSWER:  
madrigal 
[10] The Sea of Azov connects the Black Sea to what other large sea? 
ANSWER:  
Mediterranean 
 Sea 
[10] Charles Guiteau claimed to be a member of what political faction after assassinating James Garfield? 
These Republicans were led by Roscoe Conkling and opposed the Half-Breeds. 
ANSWER:  
Stalwart 
s 
[10] An 1828 act of what type, which taxes imports, was known as the one \"of Abominations\" and led to the 
nullification crisis? 
ANSWER:  
tariff 
 [or  
Tariff of Abominations 
] 
[10] What is the derivative of position with respect to time? It is the vector analog of speed. 
ANSWER:  
velocity 
003-10-14-0310-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  12 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
SEVEN 
[10] This mystery writer wrote  
The Seven Dials Mystery 
 and also created Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple. 
ANSWER: Agatha  
Christie 
[10] This author referred to African Americans as the “seventh son” in his book  
The Souls of Black Folk 
. 
ANSWER: W.E.B.  
Du Bois 
 [Du-BOYS] 
[10] There are seven of these mostly unsolved mathematical problems, which were formally stated in the 
year 2000. 
ANSWER:  
Millennium Prize 
 Problems 
[10] The Seven Sisters is another name for this star cluster located in the constellation Taurus. 
ANSWER:  
Pleiades 
[10]  
Seven Pillars of Wisdom 
 is a book by this British adventurer who spent time in Arabia during World 
War I. 
ANSWER: T.E.  
Lawrence 
 [accept  
Lawrence 
 of Arabia] 
[10] One of the ancient Seven Wonders was a lighthouse located at this Egyptian city. 
ANSWER:  
Alexandria 
[10] In this Biblical book, the Israelites walk around Jericho for seven days under the direction of the book’s 
namesake, the successor to Moses. 
ANSWER:  
Joshua 
[10] This mythical Irish hero has seven fingers on each hand. He is the hero of the Cattle Raid of Cooley. 
ANSWER:  
Cu Chulainn 
[10] There are seven divisions of this region of Spain and France in the Pyrenees. The ETA is a separatist 
group associated with this region. 
ANSWER:  
Basque 
 Country 
[10]  
Seven Against Thebes 
 was written by this ancient Greek playwright, the father of tragedy, who also 
wrote  
Prometheus Bound 
. 
ANSWER:  
Aeschylus 
052-10-14-0310-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  13 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 3 
12 20-Point Tossups 
1. This precious stone typically displays needle-like intrusions of rutile, and like common mimicks of 
diamond, this mineral is produced in large scales by the Verneuil process. Synthetic rods of this precious 
stone are used as a gain medium in some lasers. Its characteristic color comes from chromium, and its most 
valuable shade is called pidgeon's blood. For 20 points, name this mineral of Mohs hardness nine, the red 
form of corundum. 
ANSWER:  
ruby 
 [accept  
corundum 
 before mentioned] 
022-10-14-03101 
2. He summarized his beliefs in the  
Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences 
. He wrote about the doctrine 
of being and doctrine of essence in  
The Science of Logic 
. He set out his political philosophy in  
Elements of 
the Philosophy of Right 
. He postulated that the tension between a thesis and its antithesis results in a 
synthesis in his namesake dialectic. For 20 points, name this German Enlightenment philosopher who wrote  
Phenomenology of Spirit 
. 
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich  
Hegel 
024-10-14-03102 
3. This author's newest novel is about a private detective who travels to the lost continent of Lemuria from 
the fictional California town of Gordita Beach, named Doc Sportello. In an earlier novel by this man, a 
secret postal system called WASTE is run by Pierce Inverarity, whose death leads Oedipa Maas to attend the 
titular auction. In addition to writing  
Inherent Vice 
 and  
The Crying of Lot 49 
, this author described Tyrone 
Slothrop’s search for the V-2 rocket in another novel. For 20 points, name this reclusive author. 
ANSWER: Thomas Ruggles  
Pynchon 
, Jr. 
019-10-14-03103 
4. The title character of this play claims that Saturninus's words are \"razors to my wounded heart.\" In this 
play, Lavinia is raped and her tongue and hands cut off to prevent her from identifying the guilty parties, 
who are later baked into a pie. The title character of this play captures a Gothic queen and executes her son 
Alarbus, incurring her vengeance. That queen, Tamora, is the lover of Aaron the Moor. For 20 points, name 
this Shakespeare tragedy about a vengeful general. 
ANSWER:  
Titus Andronicus 
045-10-14-03104 
5. In one convention held in this city, the \"voice from the sewer\" helped nominate Franklin D. Roosevelt for 
a third term. Abraham Ribicoff (RIH-bi-koff) denounced the \"Gestapo tactics on the streets\" of this city 
during another convention. During that convention, the Justice Department arrested a group, including Jerry 
Rubin and Abbie Hoffman, known as this city's namesake \"Seven.\" For 20 points, name this site of the 1968 
Democratic National Convention, where massive protests were met with violence from policemen working 
for its mayor, Richard J. Daley. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
004-10-14-03105 
6. A claim that the government of this state was \"non-republican\" was denied in  
Luther v. Borden 
. Agitation 
over the fact that this state's constitution only allowed land-owners to vote turned into a 1841 rebellion in 
this state led by Thomas Dorr. The founder of the colony that became this state wrote  
The Bloody Tenent of 
Persecution 
. Anne Hutchinson led one group that settled in this state. For 20 points, name this tate, that was 
founded as a center of religious freedom by Roger Williams. 
ANSWER:  
Rhode Island 
028-10-14-03106 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  14 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. One character in this novel is an African-American doctor named Benedict Copeland. In this work, the 
socialist Jake Blount eats all of his meals at the New York Café, which is owned by Biff Brannon. Other 
characters in this novel include Mick Kelly, who takes a job at Woolworth. That main character of this work 
kills himself after the death of his friend Spiros Antonapoulos. This novel begins by noting that \"In the town 
there were two mutes, and they were always together.\" For 20 points, name this novel about John Singer, 
written by Carson McCullers. 
ANSWER:  
The  Heart is a Lonely Hunter 
025-10-14-03107 
8. This dynasty took full control after its first leader won the Battle of Gaixia (gay-ZEE-uh) against Xiang 
Yu, the leader of the Chu state. The Trung sisters in Vietnam fought against this dynasty, which was 
interrupted by the Xin Dynasty of Wang Mang. During this dynasty, Sima Qian compiled The Records of 
the Grand Historian, and this dynasty reached its greatest territorial extent under Wudi. For 20 points, name 
this early Chinese dynasty founded by Liu Bang following the collapse of the Qin Dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Han 
 Dynasty 
036-10-14-03108 
9. PSI+, one of these structures in yeast, may be evolutionarily beneficial. The creation of these entities is 
related to gene CD230, which is located on the short arm of chromosome 20. PrP becomes mutated in 
diseases related to these entities, and they can create tissue deposits that resemble amyloidosis 
(AM-ill-oy-DOSE-iss). They cause diseases like kuru, scrapie, and Creutzfeld-Jakob (KROYTZ-feld 
JAY-kob) disease. For 20 points, name these misfolded proteins. 
ANSWER:  
prion 
s [or  
proteinaceous infectious 
 agent] 
026-10-14-03109 
10. Compounds exhibiting this property tend to have 4n + 2 pi electrons, according to a rule named for 
Huckel. Specific compounds that exhibit this property include coronene (KOR-oh-neen) and naphthalenes 
(NAP-thull-eenz). Compounds with the homo- variety of this property exhibit it despite an sp  carbon that 
2 
interrupts electron delocalization (de-LO-kull-ih-ZAY-shun) across a ring. For 20 points, name this property 
in which systems of pi bonds are stabilized by bond conjugation, seen in benzene (BEN-zeen) and the 
namesake smelly compounds. 
ANSWER:  
aromatic 
ity 
032-10-14-03110 
11. The author of  
Report on Degrading Punishments 
, this man was given the nickname \"Monkey of 
Mirabeau's\" by the royalist press. This man opposed Jacques-Rene Hebert's Church of Reason. This leader 
unsuccessfully attempted suicide at the Hotel de Ville. This man was nicknamed \"the Incorruptible.\" For 20 
points, name this leader of the Committee of Public Safety and the Reign of Terror during the French 
Revolution, who was overthrown in the Thermidorian Reaction and guillotined. 
ANSWER: Maximilien François Marie Isidore de  
Robespierre 
030-10-14-03111 
12. One of this composer's piano works closes with a march of the fictional \"Davidsbündler\" 
[day-vids-BOON-dler] league and spells A-S-C-H in a recurring motif. This man composed the opera  
Genoveva 
 and the song cycle  
Dichterliebe 
. [DICK-ter-leeb-uh] This composer wrote the piano works  
Scenes 
from Childhood 
 and  
Kreisleriana 
, [KRICE-ler-ee-ah-nuh] which his wife Clara performed. This man's Third 
Symphony in E Flat major depicts the Cologne Cathedral and is nicknamed \"Rhenish.\" [RENN-ish] For 20 
points, name this composer of  
Carnaval 
 and the \"Spring\" Symphony. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Schumann 
012-10-14-03112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  15 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 3 
Tiebreakers 
1. Computer graphics specialist Henrik Jensen developed a mapping algorithm that depicts this phenomenon 
more realistically. Depth of field is accounted for when trying to model the effects of this phenomenon in the 
ray tracing algorithm. For 10 points, name this phenomenon whose accurate depiction in computer science is 
necessary for photorealism. 
ANSWER:  
light 
033-10-14-03131 
2. Robert K. Merton attempted to explain this phenomenon by applying a concept earlier used to discuss 
suicide. In addition to Merton's use of \"anomie\" to explain this behavior through \"strain theory,\" it can be 
explained by control theory or social learning theory. In the U.S., this phenomenon is catalogued in 
\"Uniform Reports\" by the FBI. Many international organs are concerned with the kind of this behavior that 
is defined as \"against humanity.\" For 10 points, name this social phenomenon, which can be a felony or a 
misdemeanor. 
ANSWER:  
crime 
019-10-14-03132 
3. Along with table salt, ammonia, and carbon dioxide, this compound is an input in the Solvay (SOL-VAY) 
process. It is a byproduct of the Ostwald process used to make nitric acid, and this compound notably has 
explosive reactions with several pure alkali metals. Combustion of hydrocarbons produces carbon dioxide 
and this compound, which reacts with strong acids to form hydronium (hy-DRO-nee-um) ions. For 10 
points, name this compound sometimes jokingly referred to as \"dihydrogen monoxide\" 
(dye-\"HIGH\"-dro-jen muh-NOX-ide). 
ANSWER:  
water 
 [or  
H O 
2 
] 
003-10-14-03133 
Colonia Tournament     Round 3     Page  16 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
