National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 6 
Tossups 
1. One boycott organized by this man used the slogan \"Don't Buy Gas Where You Can't Use the 
Restroom.\" He opened a public investigation into the death of Emmett Till. Months before the  
Brown v 
Board 
 decision, he applied to the law school of the University of Mississippi. Phil Ochs’s \"Too Many 
Martyrs\" and Bob Dylan’s \"Only a Pawn in Their Game\" are about this man. In 1994, Byron De La 
Beckwith was convicted after bragging to Ku Klux Klan members about shooting this organizer of the 
Jackson Movement in 1963. For 10 points, name this first NAACP Field Secretary of Mississippi whose 
assassination caused a furor during the civil rights movement. 
ANSWER: Medgar Wiley  
Evers 
015-09-12-06102 
2. One of this man's works shows an old woman clutching a bear mug with an owl on her shoulder. He also 
depicted a large-bosomed, smiling girl wearing lower-class clothing in his painting  
Gypsy Girl 
. This artist 
of  
Maile Babbe 
 was an accomplished portraitist, among whose clientele was the wealthy Isaak Massa. He 
painted a life-size group portrait of men ostentatiously holding flags and posing at a dinner table in his  
The 
Banquet of the Officers of the St. George Militia Company 
. The upper right of another painting by this artist 
announces that its subject is twenty six years old. In that painting, this artist depicted a mustachioed 
gentleman with an enigmatic grin, with his mouth firmly closed, in contrast to the painting's title. For 10 
points, name this artist of the Dutch Golden Age, the painter of  
The Laughing Cavalier 
. 
ANSWER: Frans  
Hals 
052-09-12-06103 
3. The \"Forbidden Toy\" experiment demonstrated that this effect depends on the severity of punishment. 
Elliot Aronson earlier found that it was stronger when an individual expended more effort joining a group. 
The first theorists of this phenomenon used applied it to the results of an experiment in which subjects 
placed and removed spools from a tray and turned square pegs ninety degrees. This phenomenon arose 
when subjects were paid one or twenty dollars to enthusiastically describe boring tasks. For 10 points, 
name this phenomenon studied by James Carlsmith and Leon Festinger, in which an individual's actions 
and attitudes are at odds with each other. 
ANSWER:  
cognitive dissonance 
003-09-12-06104 
4. Prior to this state's formation, John Carlile was accused of \"triple treason.\" A month prior to this state's 
admission, it was invaded in the Jones-Imboden raid. Joseph Reynolds's victory at Cheat Mountain allowed 
this state to establish a government under governor Francis Pierpont. This state was founded after a 
convention that claimed to \"restore\" the government of another state. One city currently in this state 
changed hands eight times during the Civil War, and was also the site of John Brown's raid on a federal 
armory. For 10 points, name this state with cities Wheeling and Harpers Ferry that broke away from its 
southeastern neighbor in 1863. 
ANSWER:  
West Virginia 
 [do not accept \"Virginia\"] 
026-09-12-06105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  1 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. In a poem by this author, the speaker declares \"I hate my epidermal dress\" and wishes to \"sleep 
immodestly\" as \"a most incarnadine and carnal ghost.\" This poet wrote \"I measure time by how a body 
sways\" in a poem whose first line describes the title character as \"lovely in her bones.\" This author of 
\"Epidermal Macabre\" and \"I Knew a Woman\" used four-line stanzas and lines of three iambs to mimic the 
title dance of a poem beginning \"the whiskey on your breath / Could make a small boy dizzy.\" This poet 
wrote \"I feel my fate in what I cannot fear / I learn by going where I have to go\" in a villanelle which 
begins with the line \"I wake to sleep, and take my waking slow.\" For 10 points, name this poet from 
Michigan who wrote \"My Papa's Waltz\" and \"The Waking.\" 
ANSWER: Theodore  
Roethke 
032-09-12-06106 
6. Locally compact examples of these algebraic structures can be assigned Haar measures. All possible 
composition series of one of these objects are equivalent by the Jordan-Hölder theorem. One class of these 
has locally Euclidean structure and is named for Lie [LEE]. Another class of this type of object dictates the 
solvability of polynomials and is named for Galois [gal-WAH]. As with many algebraic structures, the set 
of commuting values in one of these is its center and one equal to its own center is Abelian. For 10 points, 
name these mathematical structures, each of which consists of a set endowed an associated operation for 
which there exist an identity and inverses. 
ANSWER:  
group 
s 
022-09-12-06107 
7. Islands in this lake include bird sanctuaries named Hog Island and Fisherman Island. A man-made 
peninsula on this lake is Northerly Island, the site of an airport named Meigs Field. This lake contains 
islands which according to legend commemorate two drowned bear cubs. Located off the Sleeping Bear 
Dunes National Lakeshore, those islands are North and South Manitou Islands. The crazed Mormon “king” 
James Strang ruled an island in this lake called Beaver Island. Tourists cross this lake on the SS  
Badger 
, 
which takes people from Ludington to Manitowoc. For 10 points, name this only Great Lake located 
entirely within the United States, which has such cities as Chicago on its shores. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Michigan 
052-09-12-06108 
8. The Troparion of this day sees an angel tell some \"myrrh-bearing women\" that myrrh is not good enough 
for Christ. One event on this day saw a speech in which crying women were told to “weep for yourselves 
and for your children,” and that barren women would be blessed one day. Events during it can be 
represented by the Via Dolorosa, which honors the actions of Saint Veronica and Simon of Cyrene. This 
day immediately follows another holiday which contains the traditional washing of the feet and is given the 
adjective “Maundy.” For 10 points, name this holiday which commemorates the day Jesus was crucified 
and takes place two days before Easter Sunday. 
ANSWER:  
Good Friday 
 [accept  
Holy Friday 
 or  
Great Friday 
] 
052-09-12-06109 
9. In one story, this character breaks up with his girlfriend Marjorie after answering \"No\" to her question 
\"Isn't love fun anymore?\" In a subsequent story, this character reacts to that breakup by getting drunk with 
his friend Bill during the title period of strong winds. He arrives at the burned-out town of Seney and fishes 
for trout in a two-part story about his healing return to nature after World War I. In a story about his 
transition to adulthood, he warns former heavyweight prizefighter Ole Anderson about the gangsters Max 
and Al. This character is the protagonist of the stories \"The End of Something,\" \"The Three-Day Blow,\" 
\"Big Two-Hearted River,\" and \"The Killers.\" For 10 points, name this recurring character created by Ernest 
Hemingway. 
ANSWER:  
Nick 
 Adams [or Nick  
Adams 
] 
063-09-12-06110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  2 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This husband of Ermengarde of Tours died and was buried at a monastery near Prum. He quarreled 
with his stepmother Judith after she planned to have Alemannia given to her son rather than to him. He 
allied with Pepin II of Aquitaine, but was nevertheless defeated at the Battle of Fontenay, prompting him to 
negotiate a treaty with two of his brothers that granted him Italy and a strip of land stretching northwards 
from that province. For 10 points, name this signatory of the Treaty of Verdun, the brother of Charles the 
Bald and Louis the German. 
ANSWER:  
Lothair I 
040-09-12-06111 
11. The narrator of the novel is given some Christmas cookies and rosewater by a woman who returns his 
umbrella. The title character of this work secures an agreement from the leaders of a monastery to sell him 
some wood. In this novel, the young man Pavli drowns himself in the ocean after an unnamed Widow 
spends the night with the narrator, causing her to be stoned and decapitated by an angry funeral procession. 
The narrator is referred to as \"the boss\" by the passionate title character, who eventually marries the aging 
prostitute Madame Hortense and helps run a Cretan lignite mine. For 10 points, name this novel by Nikos 
Kazantzakis. 
ANSWER:  
Zorba the Greek 
 [or  
Vios kai politela tou Alexe Zormpa 
] 
040-09-12-06112 
12. A common inducible form of the Cre-Lox system fuses the Cre protein to a mutant T2 form of the 
receptor for this molecule. Raloxifine and Tamoxifen selectively inhibit the action of this compound in 
some organs, while with another hormone it increases the expression of steroid hormone binding globulin 
from the liver. This hormone, which is secreted by granulosa cells, is produced from precursors by 
aromatase, and a rise in this hormone results in the LH surge that triggers ovulation. Responsible for 
controlling the proliferation of the endometrium, its precursors include cholesterol and testosterone. Along 
with progesterone, its decline causes menopause. For 10 points, name this female sex hormone. 
ANSWER:  
Estrogen 
 [accept  
Estradiol Estriol 
 , , or  
Estrone 
] 
048-09-12-06113 
13. This figure ordered his men to advance in spite of an omen in which a red snake bit an eagle. His 
enemy recounted that this warrior would not advance beyond an oak tree by the Scaean gate. He fulfilled a 
prophecy by killing Protesilaus and engaged in another fight in the form of his brother Deiphobus. This 
figure's bronze helmet inspired tears in his son Astyanax, whom he embraced before killing an enemy 
wearing someone else's armor. This man was dragged behind his opponent’s chariot as vengeance for 
killing Patroclus. For 10 points, name this husband of Andromache, a Trojan brother of Paris and warrior 
who was killed by Achilles. 
ANSWER:  
Hector 
015-09-12-06114 
14. The second waltz from this composer's second  
Jazz Suite 
 is played at the beginning and ending of 
Stanley Kubrick's movie  
Eyes Wide Shut 
. This composer wrote a symphony whose eleven movements set 
poems by Garcia Lorca, Apollonaire, and Rilke to a string and percussion orchestra. In addition to 
composing his  
Fourteenth 
 symphony, he compared the finale of his fifth symphony to a person beating 
people with a stick and insisting \"your business is rejoicing,\" although he had earlier called it a \"creative 
response to justified criticism.\" The first movement of his seventh symphony repeats a marchlike 
twenty-two bar ostinato representing the German invasion of his country during World War II. For 10 
points, name this Soviet composer of the  
Leningrad 
 symphony. 
ANSWER: Dmitri Dmitriyevich  
Shostakovich 
026-09-12-06115 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  3 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. Herbert Taylor used a radioactive tracer in  
Vicia faba 
 to arrive at the same results that this experiment 
more conclusively showed. The year previously, a paper the experimenters co-authored with Vinograd 
explained density-gradient centrifugation using cesium chloride, which the experimenters used as the last 
step in this \"most beautiful experiment in biology.\" In this pulse-chase experiment,  
E. coli 
 was grown in a 
medium containing nitrogen-15, then transferred to a medium containing nitrogen-14; the experimenters 
then observed which strands of DNA contained the heavier isotope of nitrogen. For 10 points, name this 
experiment that proved that DNA replication was semiconservative. 
ANSWER:  
Meselson-Stahl 
 experiment 
040-09-12-06116 
16. One ruler of this dynasty sent his general Jawhar to conquer the Ikshidids. The general Badr al-Jamali 
took control of this dynasty during the reign of its ruler al-Mustansir. This dynasty founded the university 
al-Azhar during the reign of al-Mu'izz, and was supported by the Katana Berbers after being founded by 
Ubayd Allah. The Assassins were founded in opposition to this dynasty, which founded the modern city of 
Cairo and made that city its capital in 973. Druze worship this dynasty's caliph al-Hakim, and it lost power 
in Egypt after being overthrown by Saladin. For 10 points, identify this Isma'ili dynasty which ruled North 
Africa and Egypt from 909 to 1171, named for a daughter of Muhammad. 
ANSWER:  
Fatimid 
 Dynasty [or the  
Fatimid 
s] 
004-09-12-06117 
17. One character in this play observes that women \"don't seem to hold together like men\" before 
remembering a girl who \"spread\" and exclaiming \"Kaw!\" That character shouts \"One Lyons Red Label! 
One Smith's Crisps! One Eccles cake!\" as well as \"The larder's bare!\" before another character apologizes 
more formally through a speaking tube. The main characters of this play are employees of the mysterious 
Wilson, and repeat instructions about taking out their weapons to corner a victim in silence. However, this 
play ends with one of its two characters stumbling onstage stripped of his clothes and gun, causing the 
audience to realize he is his partner's actual target. For 10 points, name this Harold Pinter play about the 
hitmen Gus and Ben, who receive orders from the title device. 
ANSWER: The  
Dumb Waiter 
052-09-12-06118 
18. One scene in this film demonstrates the protagonist's unstable marriage with a series of shots showing 
the couple sitting farther apart at their dinner table. Chorus girls in this film sing that the protagonist \"loves 
to smoke\" and \"enjoys a joke.\" At one point in this film, the protagonist shrieks at Boss Jim Gettys that he 
will send him to Sing Sing. This movie's title character drafts a \"Declaration of Principles,\" which is kept 
by his friend Jedediah Leland. This film's title character attempts to make his second wife, Susan 
Alexander, into an opera star, by using his influence as  
Inquirer 
 publisher. This film aroused the ire of 
William Randolph Hearst, upon whom its title character was based. For 10 points, name this 1941 movie 
directed by and starring Orson Welles as the title newspaperman, who says \"Rosebud\" as he dies. 
ANSWER:  
Citizen Kane 
052-09-12-06119 
19. Cacodylic acid contains a central atom of this element. One drug that contains this element has a central 
ring of this element with phenamine groups hanging off, while its trioxide is used alongside ATRA to treat 
some leukemias. Besides being the central atom of Fowler’s solution, it was use to treat syphilis and 
trypanosomiasis as part of Salversan. When combined with chlorine, it forms the chemical weapon lewisite, 
while when combined with gallium it can be used as a semiconductor. For 10 points, name this element 
with atomic number 33, a notable poison. 
ANSWER:  
arsenic 
 [or  
As 
] 
040-09-12-06120 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  4 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. One character in this work explains that freshly woven cloaks continue to exist after their maker's death. 
As this work opens, the title character is told that his master composed music based on Aesop's Fables in a 
dream. After the central character uses the hot-cold and asleep-awake dichotomies to expound the notion of 
opposites, Cebes introduces that character’s \"Theory of Recollection\" argument. This work, which argues 
that the soul is immortal, opens in a prison with Simmias and Xanthippe. For 10 points, name this Platonic 
dialogue that depicts the death of Socrates. 
ANSWER:  
Phaedo 
020-09-12-06121 
21. The protagonist of this novel becomes impoverished after Macalister unwisely convinces him to invest 
in a South African mine during the Boer War. A female character in this novel gives birth to the baby of 
Emil Miller and cheats on the protagonist with Harry Griffiths before destroying the protagonist's 
possessions in a fit of rage. Its protagonist studies art with Frederick Lawson in Paris, and studies to 
become a doctor at St. Luke's Hospital, where he meets the father of his future wife Sally, Thorpe 
Athelney. The second half of this novel describes the protagonist's destructive relationship with the waitress 
Mildred Pierce. For 10 points, name this novel about the club-footed Philip Carey, written by William 
Somerset Maugham. 
ANSWER:  
Of Human Bondage 
040-09-12-06122 
22. In the WKB approximation, the probability of this process is given by e to the minus integral of the 
wave number between turning points, all over the square of one plus one-fourth the same exponential. The 
preformation probability times the rebound frequency times the probability of this process gives the rate of 
alpha decay in the Gamow [GAM-off] model. Because the wavefunction decays exponentially in regions of 
high potential, the wave function amplitude is in general non-zero outside of finite potential barriers, which 
explains this process. The transmission coefficient gives the probability of this process. For 10 points, name 
this phenomenon in which a particle crosses a potential barrier of energy greater than its own energy, a 
process that is not classically allowed. 
ANSWER: quantum  
tunneling 
001-09-12-06123 
23. Juliet Barker argues that the victors of this battle were outnumbered at least four to one. Davy Gam 
allegedly died saving the life of the winning commander at this battle. The losing side was led by Charles 
d'Albret [doll-BRAY]. It led to the Treaty of Troyes, which ensured that the French throne would be 
inherited by the victor, Henry V. For 10 points, name this 1415 battle, a victory for the English 
longbowmen during the Hundred Years' War. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Agincourt 
024-09-12-06124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  5 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 6 
Bonuses 
1. It's produced via the Hall-Héroult process from its oxide, which is produced by the Bayer process. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this metal refined from the ore bauxite. 
ANSWER:  
aluminum 
 [or  
Al 
] 
[10] During the Hall-Héroult process, alumina is dissolved in the molten variety of this crystal. 
ANSWER:  
cryolite 
[10] Cryolite is made up of sodium, aluminum, and this element which forms an acid used to etch glass. Six 
atoms of this element bonded with uranium form a compound used in the uranium enrichment process. 
ANSWER:  
fluorine 
 [or  ] 
F 
059-09-12-06201 
2. One commander in this battle placed the Saxon forces of Johann Georg on his left flank and decided not 
use the immobile \"tercio\" formation. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1631 battle of the Thirty Years War, a decisive victory for the Protestants. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Breitenfeld 
[10] During the battle, Swedish forces were commanded by this “Lion of the North” who transformed his 
country into a European power and was killed at the Battle of Lutzen. 
ANSWER:  
Gustavus 
 Adolphus 
[10] This man commanded the forces of the Holy Roman Empire during the battle. During the battle, 
cannons belonging to this man’s forces were captured by the Swedes and started firing on his troops. 
ANSWER: Count of  
Tilly 
 [accept Johann  
Tserclaes 
] 
064-09-12-06202 
3. “The Life of the Bee” and “The Intelligence of Flowers” are two essays by this author of  
The Princess 
Maleine 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Belgian author of  
The Intruder 
, who included the jealous Golaud in a play set in Arkël’s 
kingdom of Allemonde. 
ANSWER: Maurice  
Maeterlinck 
[10] Maurice Maeterlinck is the author of this play, in which the two title characters are children of 
Genevieve. Although the elfin second title character is married to Golaud, she falls in love with her 
half-brother. 
ANSWER:  
Pelléas and Mélisande 
 [or  
Pelléas et Mélisande 
] 
[10] Maeterlinck also wrote a play about Mytyl and Tyltyl’s search for a blue type of this creature. In an 
Aristophanes play, a bunch of them help Pisthetairos and Euelpides create Cloudcuckooland. 
ANSWER:  
bird 
s 
034-09-12-06203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  6 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Though it is not yet a national holiday, many inhabitants of this country celebrate National Sorry Day in 
late May. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country whose first Sorry Day celebration in 1998 marked the one-year anniversary of the 
presentation of the  
Bringing Them Home 
 report to its parliament. 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Australia 
[10] National Sorry Day is a day of remembrance of poor treatment of these indigenous Australians. 
ANSWER:  
aborigine 
s 
[10] The  
Bringing Them Home 
 report investigated the state-sponsored practices in which Aboriginal 
children were forcibly removed from their homes and raised by missions and government institutions; those 
children were referred to by this name. 
ANSWER:  
Stolen Generation 
s [or  
Stolen Children 
] 
003-09-12-06204 
5. Similar themes are explored in one of this works companion pieces,  
Spiral Expansion of Speeding 
Muscles. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1913 sculpture of a marching man under the influence of wind. 
ANSWER:  
Unique Forms of Continuity in Space 
 [or  
Forme uniche della continuità nello spazio 
] 
[10]  
Unique Forms of Continuity in Space 
 is by this Italian Futurist artist of  
States of Mind 
 and  
The City 
Rises. 
ANSWER: Umberto  
Boccioni 
[10] The pose and flowing lines of  
Unique Forms of Continuity in Space 
 are reminiscent of this headless 
statue of antiquity, which Marinetti declared inferior to a roaring motorcar in the  
Futurist Manifesto 
. This 
depiction of Nike now resides in the Louvre. 
ANSWER:  
Winged  Victory of Samothrace 
 [or  
Nike of Samothrace 
; or  
Winged Victory 
] 
001-09-12-06205 
6. Donald Keene is an avid translator of literature from this country. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this nation, whose medieval works of literature include \"Essays in Idleness\" and a book in 
which an emperor burns an elixir of immortality after a beautiful princess returns to her home on the Moon. 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nippon 
-koku; or  
Nihon 
-koku] 
[10] The blind Kakuichi compiled this epic about the Genpei War in which the hate-filled Taira no 
Kiyomori is spared by Kumagae Naozane and his widow and their son Antoku drown at the Battle of 
Dan-no-ura. 
ANSWER:  
 The  Tale of the Heike 
 [or  
Heike Monogatari 
] 
[10] Another work of medieval Japanese literature is this one that has chapters like \"The Floating Bridge of 
Dreams\" and focuses on an amorous Heian ruler's pursuit of women like Fujitsubo and Aoi. It was written 
by Lady Murasaki Shikubu. 
ANSWER:  
The  Tale of Genji 
 [or  
Genji Monogatari 
] 
020-09-12-06206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  7 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. This monarch ruled one kingdom with her husband Philip the Handsome, and later another with her son 
Charles V, the Holy Roman Emperor. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Spanish queen who faced the Revolt of the Comuneros. 
ANSWER:  
Juana the Mad 
 [or  
Joanna I 
 of Castile] 
[10] Juana co-ruled this kingdom with Philip. Some time later, its king Henry IV had to pass power to his 
half-brother Alfonso instead of to his bastard daughter; after Alfonso died, he signed the Treaty of the Bulls 
of Guisando to determine a successor. 
ANSWER:  
Castile 
[10] As a consequence of those bulls, these two monarchs united the kingdoms of Castile and Aragon. 
ANSWER:  
Ferdinand and Isabella 
 [accept either order; accept  
Ferdinand II 
 of Aragon and  
Isabella I 
 of 
Castile] 
022-09-12-06207 
8. This operetta begins with Gabriel von Eisenstein convicted to serve eight days in jail for insulting an 
official. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this comic operetta in which Falke attempts to take revenge on Eisenstein for being abandoned 
in the center of town in a ridiculous costume. 
ANSWER:  
Die  Fledermaus 
 [or  
The  Bat 
] 
[10] This waltz king of  
The Beautiful Blue Danube 
 composed  
Die Fledermaus 
. 
ANSWER:  ohan  
J Strauss II 
 [prompt on  
Strauss 
; accept clear equivalents for \"II\" like  
Junior 
 or  
the 
Younger 
] 
[10]  
Die Fledermaus 
 contains a famed  
csardas 
, a traditional dance from this nation, whose national opera 
was founded by Ferenc Erkel. 
ANSWER:  
Hungary 
 [accept  
Magyar 
ország; or  
Magyar 
 Köztársaság] 
026-09-12-06208 
9. The developer of this test also co-developed the HERP index, which measures the potential carcinogenic 
hazard of man-made and naturally occurring compounds. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this test that uses mutated  
Salmonella typhimurium 
 to determine the mutagenic power of a 
chemical. 
ANSWER:  
Ames 
 test 
[10] The  
S. typhimurium 
 mutants in the Ames test cannot synthesize this essential amino acid, which 
contains an imidazole side chain. This amino acid is bound to zinc in proteins such as carbonic anhydrase. 
ANSWER:  
histidine 
 [prompt on   or  
H His 
; do not accept or prompt on \"histamine\"] 
[10] Mutants that have lost the ability to synthesize essential nutrients, such as the mutant  
S. typhimurium 
used in the Ames test, are known by this name. Beadle and Tatum used them to develop the one gene-one 
enzyme hypothesis. 
ANSWER:  
auxotroph 
s [accept  
auxotrophy 
] 
003-09-12-06209 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  8 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. He possessed the Tablet of Destinies before it was stolen by Tiamat and Kingu. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this chief of the Sumerian pantheon, who granted Utnapishtim immortality for surviving a 
flood that this god had sent because mankind became too loud. 
ANSWER:  
Enlil 
 [or  
Ellil 
; or  
Kirgal 
] 
[10] Enlil was the mediator between the rest of the gods and this ruler of heaven, a flat dome who covered 
the earth, consorted with Ki, Nammu, and Uras, and was part of a triad with Ea and Enlil. 
ANSWER:  
An 
u 
[10] This popular god of the city of Babylon recovered the Tablet of Destinies for Enlil and Anu after 
slaying Kingu and Tiamat. 
ANSWER:  
Marduk 
019-09-12-06210 
11. A February 2010 article in  
Nature 
 announcing the complete genome sequence of this organism 
misspelled its scientific name as  
Ailuropoda melanoleura 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this bamboo-loving organism that is probably, but by no means certainly, a bear. 
ANSWER: giant  
panda 
[10] The researchers discovered a gene coding for a non-functional beta-subunit in the panda version of this 
hormone, which acts in concert with luteinizing hormone to regulate the activity of the gonads. 
ANSWER:  
FSH 
 [or  
follicle stimulating hormone 
] 
[10] The researchers also discovered two frameshift mutations in the panda T1R1 gene, which led them to 
hypothesize that a panda's herbivorous diet is due to the lack of a functional receptor for this taste. 
ANSWER:  
umami 
003-09-12-06211 
12. Believers in this religion practiced extreme asceticism in order to free the soul from the body, which 
they believed was inherently evil because it was made of matter. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this dualistic religion which combined elements of Buddhism, Christianity, and Zoroastrianism. 
It was founded in the third century CE by a namesake Iranian prophet. 
ANSWER:  
Manichae 
ism 
[10] The Manichean belief that matter is evil was adapted from this religious tradition, which believed that 
the world was created by a flawed demiurge and that salvation can be achieved through knowledge of the 
supreme God. 
ANSWER:  
Gnostic 
ism 
[10] In 1945, Muhammad 'Alí discovered over fifty Gnostic texts, such as the Gospel of Thomas and the 
Gospel of Truth, at this town in Upper Egypt. 
ANSWER:  
Nag Hammadi 
 [or  
Naj 'Hammádì 
] 
004-09-12-06212 
13. It covers much of the southwest of Ireland. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this province whose flag's three crowns represent the kingdoms of Thormond, Desmond, and 
Ormond. 
ANSWER:  
Munster 
[10] This most populous city in Munster, located on the River Lee, earned a reputation for rebelliousness 
with its support of Perkin Warbeck during the 15th Century. 
ANSWER:  
Cork 
[10] The second most populous city in Munster is this city found on the estuary of the River Shannon. 
ANSWER:  
Limerick 
040-09-12-06213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  9 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. Integrating this distribution gives the probability of finding a classical equilibrium gas molecule 
between two speeds. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this distribution that has the form v-squared times e to the minus m v squared over two k T, 
where v is the speed, m is the particle mass, and k T is the kinetic temperature. 
ANSWER: the  
Maxwell 
-Boltzmann distribution [accept  
Boltzmann 
 distribution; accept  
Maxwellian 
] 
[10] According to the equipartition theorem, the amount of this associated with each degree of freedom in a 
Maxwellian gas is equal, which allows us to transform the speed distribution to a distribution for this 
quantity directly and compute specific heats. 
ANSWER:  
energy 
 [prompt on  ] 
E 
[10] The Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution can be derived directly from Boltzmann factors without 
knowledge of this quantity, symbolized Z and equal to the sum over states of all Boltzmann factors or, 
equivalently, to the total amplitude of microstates accessible to the gas. 
ANSWER: the  
partition function 
003-09-12-06214 
15. This novel imagines an alternate history in which the state of Israel collapsed and Jews have a 
temporary homeland in Sitka, Alaska. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Meyer Landsman investigates the death of a fellow lodger at the Hotel 
Zamenhof. 
ANSWER:  
The  Yiddish Policeman's Union 
[10]  
The Yiddish Policeman's Union 
 was written by this author, who also penned  
The Amazing Adventures 
of Kavalier and Clay 
. 
ANSWER: Michael  
Chabon 
[10] In  
The Yiddish Policeman's Union 
, a clue to the murder of the pseudonymously-named Emmanuel 
Lasker is the arrangement of pieces used to play this board game. It titles the second section of \"The Waste 
Land.\" 
ANSWER:  
chess 
003-09-12-06215 
16. The independence of this state was secured at the Battle of Rio San Gabriel and the Battle of La Mesa. 
For 10 points each, 
[10] What American state declared its independence from Mexico at Sonoma through the Bear Flag 
Rebellion? 
ANSWER:  
California 
[10] This man, who first came to California with Kit Carson while trying to map the American West, was 
arrested for trying to claim governorship of California. 
ANSWER: John Charles  
Frémont 
[10] This general, who combined his forces with Robert Stockton to conquer California at the 
aforementioned battles, was the man who arrested Frémont. 
ANSWER: Stephen Watts  
Kearny 
034-09-12-06216 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  10 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. This poem ends with its speaker looking at \"a four foot box, a foot for every year.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem from the collection  
Death of a Naturalist 
, which describes the death of its author's 
four year old brother Christopher. It begins with the speaker sitting in a \"college sick bay\" and \"Counting 
bells knelling classes to a close.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Mid-Term Break 
\" 
[10] \"Mid-Term Break\" was written by this contemporary Irish poet, whose other poems include 
\"Digging.\" In 1999, he published a verse translation of  
Beowulf 
. 
ANSWER: Seamus  
Heaney 
[10] Heaney's poems often criticize English rule over Ireland, which is also a target of this Irish novel, 
whose title character voyages to Glubbdubdrib, Laputa, and Brobdingnag. 
ANSWER:  
Gulliver's Travels 
064-09-12-06217 
18. Identify these aspects of Alaska politics that became flashpoints of political debate in 2008, for 10 
points each. 
[10] Sarah Palin endorsed drilling for oil in this development-free zone in northeastern Alaska, despite 
reports about the impact on caribou herds. 
ANSWER:  
ANWR 
 (AN-war) [or the  
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 
] 
[10] Both Senator Ted Stevens and Congressman Don Young of Alaska were implicated in the earmarking 
of two hundred million dollars for the Gravina Island bridge, which would have kept the town of Ketchikan 
from taking a ferry to an airstrip and was popularly known by this name, 
ANSWER: the  
bridge to nowhere 
[10] This sole Congressman from Alaska was re-elected to a nineteenth term in 2008 despite ethical 
questions, defeating primary challenger Sean Parnell by 304 votes. 
ANSWER: Donald Edward \"Don\"  
Young 
019-09-12-06218 
19. This data type can use push-back and pop-back commands. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these dynamic linear data structures from C++ and related languages. Unlike otherwise-similar 
arrays, they can dynamically add and remove elements. 
ANSWER:  
vector 
s 
[10] This fly contains the genetically tiny endosymbiont Wigglesworthia. It is the major vector for the 
trypanosomes that can cause African sleeping sickness. 
ANSWER: the  
tsetse 
 fly (or  
Glossina 
) 
[10] This term from linear algebra denotes a set of linearly independent vectors that span a space. 
ANSWER:  
basis 
064-09-12-06219 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  11 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. For 10 points each, name these painters from the Netherlands. 
[10] This painter depicted sinners being tortured in Hell in the rightmost panels of his triptychs  
The 
Haywain 
 and  
The Garden of Earthly Delights 
. 
ANSWER: Hieronymus  
Bosch 
 [or Jeroen Anthoniszoon van  
Aken 
] 
[10] This artist of the  
Seven Sacraments Altarpiece 
 is most celebrated for his version of the  
Deposition 
from the Cross 
 for the Archers' Guild of Louvain. He also painted a portrait of Francesco d'Este and a 
portrait of a pensive woman wearing a gauze headdress located in the National Gallery. 
ANSWER: Rogier van der  
Weyden 
[10] This student of Rogier van der Weyden painted the St. Ursula Shrine for the St. John's Hospital in his 
home town, Bruges. In the central panel of his  
Last Judgment 
 triptych, Jesus sits on a circular rainbow next 
to a lily and a flaming sword. 
ANSWER: Hans  
Memling 
 [or Hans  
Memlinc 
] 
004-09-12-06220 
21. John Edgar Wideman fictionalized this city's 1985 bombing of the Afrocentric cult Move in a novel 
named for this city's fire. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this city whose 1793 yellow fever epidemic forms the background for Charles Brockden 
Brown's novel  
Arthur Mervyn 
. 
ANSWER:  
Philadelphia 
[10] This author created the fictional Pennsylvania town of Gibbsville in his novel about the 
self-destruction of Julian English,  
Appointment in Samarra 
. He also wrote  
Butterfield 8 
. 
ANSWER: John  
O'Hara 
[10] This 19th century author was born in Pennsylvania, and wrote about the four March sisters in her 
novel  
Little Women 
. 
ANSWER: Louisa May  
Alcott 
063-09-12-06221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 6     Page  12 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
