National History Bowl 11 
Round 13 
First Quarter 
1. This country is home to many tombs called Mastabas. This nation's Siwa Oasis can be found in its 
Qattara Depression, which is the second lowest point in all of Africa. The ancient cities of Thebes and 
Memphis would be located in this nation. For 10 points, name this country that once sported the Pharos 
Lighthouse in its city of Alexandria. 
ANSWER:  
Egypt 
040-11-31-13101 
2. Though not in North Carolina, this was the site of a war between the Raiders and the Regulators. 
Conditions here were initially exacerbated by Joseph Brown's refusal to sell tents. Though designed for ten 
thousand, this site housed over thirty thousand at its peak. Lew Wallace presided over the trial of Henry 
Wirz for war crimes committed here. For 10 points, name this notorious Confederate prison camp in 
Georgia. 
ANSWER:  
Andersonville 
 Prison Camp [or  
Camp Sumter 
 before mentioned] 
003-11-31-13102 
3. In one work, this thinker used the characters of Theophilius and Philalethe to rebut John Locke. This 
author of  
New Essays on Human Understanding 
 claimed that evil was reconcilable with god in  
Théodicée 
, 
in which he claimed that this is the best of all possible worlds. For 10 points, name this philosopher who 
wrote the  
Monadology 
 and invented calculus independent of Isaac Newton. 
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm  
Leibniz 
026-11-31-13103 
4. One of the first major battles of this war was fought at Khorramshahr after the breakdown of the Algiers 
Accord. A Kurdish rebellion that occurred concurrently with this war was repressed violently with a poison 
gas attack at Halabja. One theatre of this war was the “Tanker War.\" For 10 points, name this war ended by 
a 1988 ceasefire and named for its two middle-eastern participants. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Iraq 
 War 
015-11-31-13104 
5. This man caused controversy when he adopted Edgardo Mortara on the grounds that Edgardo's Jewish 
parents should not be allowed to care for a baptized child. He listed a number of faulty arguments by citing 
prior Papal writings that condemned them in his  
Syllabus of Errors 
. He established the doctrine of the 
immaculate conception at the First Vatican Council. For 10 points, name this longest serving pope. 
ANSWER:  
Pius IX 
040-11-31-13105 
6. This ruler had the Akh-Menu constructed at Karnak. He ordered the construction of what are now known 
as Cleopatra's Needles. In the 33rd year of his reign, he crossed the Euphrates to attack the Mitanni. He 
defeated an alliance lead by the King of Kadesh at Meggido. This man succeeded his regent Hatshepsut. 
For 10 points, name this Pharoh of the 18th dynasty who brought Egypt to its military peak. 
ANSWER:  
Thutmose III 
 [or  
Tuthmosis III 
] 
001-11-31-13106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. One king of this region drowned the defeated followers of Onomarchos after winning the Battle of 
Crocus Field. A series of wars fought between the people of this region and Rome included the Battles of 
Cynocephalae and Pydna. It was the base of operations for the Antigonid Dynasty after the death of its 
most well-known ruler. For 10 points, name this Greek region that was ruled by Philip II and Alexander the 
Great. 
ANSWER:  
Macedonia 
040-11-31-13107 
8. The ending of this work's first volume predicts that Russia will be one of two countries to dominate the 
subsequent century. The author stated that the surface of the title society, \"from time to time one can see 
the old aristocratic colors breaking through.\" It was written while its author and Gustave de Beaumont were 
on a mission to study the penitentiary system. For 10 points each, name this book written by Alexis de 
Tocqueville. 
ANSWER:  
Democracy in America 
 [or  
De la democratie en Amerique 
] 
030-11-31-13108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 13 
Second Quarter 
1.  
This subject of the Herman Melville poem \"The Portent\" was the subject of a propagandist 
\"authorized\" biography by James Redpath. The magazine of the Weather Underground was named 
after the site of one of this man's deeds. Robert Penn Warren's first published book attempted to 
debunk myths about this man and was a biography subtitled  The Making of a Martyr . A poem by 
John Greenleaf Whittier repeated the legend that this man kissed a (*) 
 slave baby as he was led to the 
gallows. For 10 points, name this anti-slavery radical whose \"Body\" provides the title of a Stephen Vincent 
Benet poem about this man's raid on Harper's Ferry. 
ANSWER: John  
Brown 
BONUS: John Brown led what specific act of violence in May 1856 that led to the deaths of five 
pro-slavery settlers during the struggle known as “Bleeding Kansas\"? 
ANSWER:  
Pottawatomie 
 Massacre 
003-11-31-13101 
2.  
In one episode in this novel, an army is set on fire after being ambushed during a battle at Bowang 
Slope. One of this novel’s protagonists marries Lady Sun. In this novel, the warrior Lu Bu is 
involved in a love triangle with Diaochan and the warlord Dong Zhou. The first chapter of this novel 
features the Oath of the Peach Garden, which was sworn by three warriors, including (*) 
 Liu Bei, 
who is victorious at the Battle of Red Cliffs. For 10 points, name this historical novel by Luo Guanzhong 
about the conflict between the states of Wei, Shu, and Wu. 
ANSWER:  
Romance of the Three Kingdoms 
BONUS: The Romance of the Three Kingdoms was written during the early part of what dynasty? 
ANSWER:  
Ming 
 Dynasty 
024-11-31-13102 
3.  
One spin-off of this series featured Soon-Lee, a character played by Rosalind Chao, who married 
one character at the end of this series. The film on which this series was based starred Rene 
Auberjonois as the character played by William Christopher in the series, although Gary Burghoff 
played the same character in the film and the series. That character, who drinks (*) 
 Nehi soda and has 
an uncanny ability to hear incoming helicopters, is Radar O’Reilly. For 10 points, name this television 
show set during the Korean War featuring Hawkeye Pierce. 
ANSWER:  
M*A*S*H 
BONUS: What does the acronym M*A*S*H stand for? 
ANSWER:  
Mobile Army Surgical Hospital 
024-11-31-13103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
One rebellion in this country saw the execution of Thomas Scott, which led this country’s leader to 
dispatch the Wolseley Expedition. Another rebellion in this country was sparked by the Battle of 
Montgomery’s Tavern and ended with the defeat of the rebels at the Battle of the Windmill. That 
rebellion, which was a protest against the Family Compact, was one of two rebellions in this country 
which took place in 1837. The Battle of Fish Creek was part of a (*) 
 rebellion of this country’s Métis, 
led by Louis Riel. For 10 points, name this country which saw the North-West Rebellion take place in 
Saskatchewan. 
ANSWER:  
Canada 
BONUS: What two word term is used in Canada to refer to native tribes? 
ANSWER:  
First Nations 
024-11-31-13104 
5.  
This man was defeated by George Clinton for the position of Governor of New York. He succeeded 
his rival Henry Laurens as President of the Continental Congress. His court heard, but never ruled 
on, the case known as Hayburn’s Case. He was the chief negotiator of a treaty in which the United 
States gave most favored nation status to Great Britain in return for Britain agreeing to evacuate the 
six western (*) 
 forts by 1796, a treaty which bears his name. Along with Alexander Hamilton and James 
Madison, he wrote the  
Federalist Papers 
. For 10 points, name this first Chief Justice of the United States. 
ANSWER: John  
Jay 
BONUS: The Jay Court heard only four cases; two of which had the name of which state in them, including 
one where this state’s adversary was a Mr. Chisholm? 
ANSWER:  
Georgia 
024-11-31-13105 
6.  
Albert Niemann earned a doctorate by working with Friedrich Wohler on isolating this chemical. 
The German company Farbwerke was the primary European manufacturer of this chemical until a 
state-bank-subsidized Dutch company, NCF, pirated their production method. A coup financed by 
Roberto Suarez was named after this chemical, and that coup occurred in a nation where (*) 
 Evo 
Morales has tried to demonstrate the difference between this chemical and the plant it comes from. In the 
1980's illicit trafficking of this drug was controlled by the Medellin and Cali cartels. For 10 points, name 
this drug both studied and used by Sigmund Freud, which is processed from the coca plant. 
ANSWER:  
cocaine 
BONUS: Pablo Escobar was a cocaine baron based in what country home to the FARC insurgency? 
ANSWER:  
Colombia 
003-11-31-13106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
Maryann Sumi ruled twice in favor of the suit of Ismael Ozanne against the enforcement of a piece 
of legislation in this state in March 2011. Stephen Miller was in contact with this state's Senate 
Majority Leader, Scott Fitzgerald, who had the Legislative Reference Bureau publish the 
controversial Act 10. That act started out labeled as a (*) 
 Budget Repair Bill by this state's governor 
Scott Walker. For 10 points, name this Midwestern state where protests, including a walk out by 
Democratic state senators, arose in response to an anti-union bill. 
ANSWER:  
Wisconsin 
BONUS: Which Wisconsin governor, who was later a Senator and presidential candidate in 1924, 
supported legislation that strengthened labor unions, along with other progressive causes? 
ANSWER: Robert  
LaFollette 
 Sr. 
023-11-31-13107 
8.  
In his early career, this man organized a revolt during the Nanchang Uprising. This man barely 
managed to escape with his life after he organized the takeover of Shanghai during the Northern 
Expedition. The refusal to allow people to mourn this man following his death triggered the first 
Tiananmen Incident. He helped organized the release of Chiang Kai Shek during the Xi’an Incident 
and he held a secret meeting with (*) 
 Henry Kissinger prior to a 1972 visit by Richard Nixon. For 10 
points, name this man who worked under Mao Zedong as the first premier of the People’s Republic of 
China. 
ANSWER:  
Zhou 
 Enlai 
BONUS: Zhou clashed politically with what quartet of high-ranking officials during the 1970’s? 
ANSWER: the  
Gang of Four 
064-11-31-13108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 13 
Third Quarter 
U.S. SENATORS 
Which United States Senator… 
A. Endured the Teapot Dome Scandal after becoming the 29th president? 
ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel  
Harding 
B. Was the namesake of a Silver Purchase Act and an Antitrust Act? 
ANSWER: John  
Sherman 
C. Was called the “Master of the Senate” by his biographer Robert Caro? 
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines  
Johnson 
D. Said “Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable!” in his Second Reply to Hayne? 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Webster 
E. Instigated massive resistance as head of a prominent Virginia political machine? 
ANSWER: Harry Flood  
Byrd 
F. Served for twenty-five years in Ohio after retiring from NASA? 
ANSWER: John  
Glenn 
G. Later served as the Confederate Secretary of War, Secretary of State, and Attorney General? 
ANSWER: Judah Philip  
Benjamin 
H. Gave a two hour speech before Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address? 
ANSWER: Edward  
Everett 
015-11-31-1310-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE GILDED AGE 
Answer these questions about America in the Gilded Age. 
A. Which author of  
Huck Finn 
 coined the term “Gilded Age”? 
ANSWER: Mark  
Twain 
 [or Samuel Langhorne  
Clemens 
] 
B. Corruption was rampant during the two-term presidency of what former Union general? 
ANSWER: Ulyses S.  
Grant 
C. New York society during the Gilded Age was chronicled in what author’s  
The Age of Innocence? 
ANSWER: Edith  
Wharton 
 [or Edith Newbold  
Jones 
] 
D. What tobacco baron became the namesake of a North Carolina college in 1924? 
ANSWER: James Buchanan  
Duke 
E. What former Cigarmakers’ leader served as the first President of the American Federation of Labor? 
ANSWER: Samuel  
Gompers 
F. Sometimes called “Jubilee Jim”, who tried to corner the gold market with James Gould in 1869? 
ANSWER: James  
Fisk 
, Jr. [or Jim  
Fisk 
, Jr.] 
G. What New York political boss resigned with Thomas Platt over political appointments of James 
Garfield? 
ANSWER: Roscoe  
Conkling 
094-11-31-1310-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
WILD WEST PERSONALITIES 
Which Wild West personality… 
A. killed several Clantons at the O.K. Corral with his brothers Virgil and Morgan? 
ANSWER: Wyatt  
Earp 
B. Organized a show called his “Wild West and Congress of Rough Riders of the World”? 
ANSWER:  
Buffalo Bill 
 [or William Frederick  
Cody 
] 
C. Was a New Mexico outlaw and subject of a Copland ballet? 
ANSWER:  
Billy the Kid 
 [or William H.  
Bonney 
] 
D. Was shot by Jack McCall while playing cards in Deadwood? 
ANSWER: Wild Bill  
Hickok 
 [or James Butler  
Hickok 
] 
E. Was billed as “the Peerless Lady Wing-Shot” in Buffalo Bill’s show? 
ANSWER: Annie  
Oakley 
F. Was a dentist who sided with Wyatt Earp at the O.K. Corrall? 
ANSWER: Doc  
Holliday 
 [or John Henry  
Holliday 
] 
G. Married Clinton Burke after the death of her longtime companion Wild Bill Hickok? 
ANSWER:  
Calamity Jane 
 [or Martha Jane  
Cannary 
 Burke] 
H. Was the New Mexico lawman who killed Billy the Kid? 
ANSWER: Patrick Floyd  
Garrett 
015-11-31-1310-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 13 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
General Henry Atkins built fort Dixon as a base in a conflict against this man. A conflict centering 
on this man featured the exploits of Shabonee, who warned settlers of impending raids. This man's 
operations were headquartered at (+)  Fort Armstrong on Rock Island. This man had a rivalry with 
Keokuk, who assisted the United States in the War of 1812. He was sent to Fortress Monroe after his 
final defeat, and many of his tribe were killed in the (*) 
 Bad Axe Massacre. For 10 points, name this 
leader of factions of the Sauk and Fox Indians who is the namesake of an 1832 war centered in Illinois and 
Iowa. 
ANSWER:  
Black Hawk 
 [or  
Ma-ka-tai-me-she-kia-kiak 
] 
030-11-31-13101 
2.  
This man’s Dignity Battalions were used to fight protesters attempting to place Guillermo Endara 
as president, and Endara became president after this man’s removal. Colonel Roberto Diaz Herrera 
accused this man of orchestrating a plane crash that killed president Omar Torrijos, and he was 
implicated in the murder of opponent (+)  Hugo Spadafora. This man’s memoirs are entitled  
America’s Prisoner . This man’s capture was known as Operation Nifty Package, part of the larger 
Operation Just Cause, which was initiated by President (*) 
 George H.W. Bush. For 10 points, name this 
Panamanian dictator and drug dealer who was ousted by the United States in 1989 and subsequently served 
a prison term in Miami. 
ANSWER: Manuel  
Noriega 
 Morena 
030-11-31-13102 
3.  
This society forbade the free consolidation of lands and resources known as misrabhoga. Religious 
sites in this kingdom had special bondsmen called knum. This civilization produced barays which 
were artificial lakes. It was visited by the diplomat Zhou Daguan. One period of its architecture is 
typified by the (+)  Bayon temple. It succeeded the Chenla Kingdom. It was founded by Jayavarman 
II. Its king Suryavarman II built (*) 
 Angkor Wat at its capital. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian 
kingdom that partly shares its name with 20th century Cambodian regime. 
ANSWER:  
Khmer 
 Empire [or Kingdom of  
Khmer 
] 
001-11-31-13103 
4.  
The first and only female holder of this position was Jane Byrne, who moved into the housing 
project Cabrini-Green for three weeks. Carter Harrison Jr. held this position five times after his 
eponymous father was assassinated by Patrick (+)  Prendergast in 1893. A holder of this position 
named Roswell B. Mason declared martial law and handed power to Philip Sheridan in 1871. 
Giuseppe Zangara assassinated a holder of this position named Anton Cermak as he shook hands 
with FDR. For much of the 20th century, this post was held by the head of the (*) 
 Daley political 
machine. For 10 points, name this position that will be held by Rahm Emanuel on May 16, 2011. 
ANSWER:  
mayor 
 of  
Chicago 
015-11-31-13104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
Along with his brother and James Kirke Paulding, this man satirized contemporary American 
society in his periodical  Salmagundi . To promote one of his books, this man created the fake hotel 
owner Seth (+)  Handaside who put an ad in the papers asking another creation of this man to pay a 
bill. That other creation of this author wrote a book describing the history of a state in the U.S. and 
also narrates a story about a man who goes hunting with his dog (*) 
 Wolf and sees the ghost of 
Hendrick Hudson. For 10 points, name this creator of the New York historian Diedrich Knickerbocker who 
wrote the stories \"Rip Van Winkle\" and \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.\" 
ANSWER: Washington  
Irving 
023-11-31-13105 
6.  
This nation was led from 1934-1935 by the dictatorial Zveno Group, and it faced the Radomir 
Rebellion in 1918. Aleksandur Stamboliyski initiated agrarian reforms in this nation in the early 
1920s. This nation suffered the worst per-capita number of (+)  troops killed in World War I, and it 
was forced to sign the punitive Treaty of Neuilly at the end of that war. A national of this country 
was acquitted of setting the Reichstag fire and that man, Georgi Dimitrov, became prime minister of 
this country at the end of World War II. A member of the Axis in World War II, this nation’s King 
Boris III refused to (*) 
 deport Jews from this country. For 10 points, Sofia became the capital of this 
country in 1879 after this nation gained its independence in the Treaty of San Stefano. 
ANSWER:  
Bulgaria 
030-11-31-13106 
7.  
This politician was open in his belief that the U.S. was hiding UFOs at the Wright-Patterson Air 
Force Base. With Bill Nichols, he names a 1986 Department of Defense Reorganization Act that gave 
more power to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. With (+)  William Miller, he ran for 
President under the slogan “An echo, not a choice,” but his campaign proved unsuccessful after his 
opponent aired an attack ad that showed an (*) 
 atomic bomb blow up a little girl picking daisies. For 10 
points, name this conservative Arizona senator who lost the 1964 election to Lyndon B. Johnson. 
ANSWER: Barry  
Goldwater 
079-11-31-13107 
8.  
Early in this conflict, the rebels planned on massacring Major Henry Gladwin by bringing 
concealed weapons to a dance. It officially began following a meeting on the Ecorse River where a 
prophet named Neolin was in attendance, and many of its participants were upset that General (+) 
Amherst had stopped the policy of gift giving. During this event, rebels successfully captured Fort 
Michilimackinac on the premise of retrieving a lost lacrosse ball, and battles in it included Bloody 
Run. In response to this event, the Conestoga Massacre was carried out by the (*) 
 Paxton Boys in 
Pennsylvania. Earlier, the rebels unsuccessfully laid siege to Detroit. For 10 points, name this 1763 
rebellion led by a namesake member of the Ottawa tribe. 
ANSWER:  
Pontiac’s 
 Rebellion [or  
Pontiac’s 
 Conspiracy] 
094-11-31-13108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 13     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
