2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 1 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 4  
Related Tossups &  
Bonuses 
1. The second movement of this composer’s String Quartet in F opens with all instruments playing  
pizzicato and is played “Assez vif.” One of his suites includes movements like “Sad Birds” and “Night  
Months” and is called  Miroirs . This composer of  Pavane for a Dead Princess  also composed a piece  
whose melody is repeated by several instruments over a steady snare drum rhythm and gradually  
crescendos to fortissimo. For 10 points, name this French composer of  Bolero .  
ANSWER: Maurice  Ravel 
Bonus: He wrote a ballet called  The Miraculous Mandarin  and a disturbing opera,  Duke Bluebeard’s  
Castle . For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this composer who compiled his country0s folk music along with fellow Hungarian Zoltan  
Kodaly.  
ANSWER: Bela  Bartok 
[10] Bartok wrote this six4volume set of didactic piano pieces. They include pieces like “Pentatonic  
Melody” and “In Dorian Mode.”  
ANSWER:  Mikrokosmos 
8. This deity fathered the god of cheese4making, Aristaeus, and seduced Coronis to father the legendary  
healer Asclepius. This god competed with Zephyrus for the love of Hyacinthus, and punished Marsyas for  
losing a musical contest by flaying him alive. He killed the giant snake Python to take possession of his  
oracle at Delphi. This son of Zeus and Leto carried a bow and a lyre in his roles as the god of archery and  
music. For 10 points, name this Greek god of light and poetry, the twin brother of Artemis.  
ANSWER:  Apollo 
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these mortals who foolishly angered Artemis.  
[10] This hunter caught a bit too much of a glimpse of Artemis bathing, so she turned him into a stag,  
causing his own hunting dogs to devour him.  
ANSWER:  Actaeon 
 [10] This daughter of Tantalus boasted of having fourteen children, while Leto only had two.  In  
response, Artemis and Apollo killed those fourteen children with their arrows.  
ANSWER:  Niobe 
<. Thought to be associated with a Chinese group known as the Xiongnu, this group was defeated at the  
Catalaunian Plains. The Roman general Aetius affiliated with Rua prior to Rua’s death> his nephews then  
took the throne and led this group in an invasion of the Eastern Roman Empire. The most famous leader  
of this group shared the kingship with his brother, Bleda. For 10 points, name this barbarian tribe of  
Eastern Europe, first led by Attila.  
ANSWER:  Huns 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 2 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: It was supposed to be “Invincible,” but was defeated by bad weather and the inexperience of its  
commander, the Duke of Medina Sidonia. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this fleet launched against England in 1?@@ by Philip II.  
ANSWER: Spanish  Armada 
[10] The launching of the Spanish Armada was delayed after Francis Drake sailed up to this Spanish city  
and burned a bunch of the ships assembling in its harbor.  
ANSWER:  Cadiz 
A. One method to measure the amount of this element in a substance involves heating with sulfuric acid  
and is named after Kjeldahl. Two molecules of this element appear in a compound used in both the  
Wolff4Kishner reduction and rocket fuel. It is bonded to carbon in a notably toxic compound that smells  
like almonds, and this pnictogen can have an oxidation number anywhere between 4< and C?. For 10  
points, name this most abundant atmospheric element, with atomic number D.   
ANSWER:  nitrogen 
 [accept  ]  N 
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these other elements.   
[10] An excellent catalyst often used in petroleum cracking, this element with atomic number AE is also  
used in carbon monoxide detectors.   
ANSWER:  palladium 
 [accept  Pd ]  
[10] This metal extracted from cinnabar ore is extremely toxic, but also useful in thermometers.   
ANSWER:  mercury 
 [accept  Hg ]  
?. In a play by this author, Robert Hand has a relationship with Bertha after she returns from Rome with  
Richard Rowan. In one of his stories, Maria touches the title substance while playing a blindfolded game  
at a Halloween party. Besides  Exiles  and FClay,F this author wrote about Fbaby tuckooF and a FmoocowF  
in a work about Stephen Dedalus, and wrote a novel set on June 1E, 1H0A about Leopold Bloom.  For 10  
points, name this Irish author of  A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man  and  Ulysses .  
ANSWER: James  Joyce 
Bonus: After leaving his coal miner roots, the protagonist of this novel forms a relationship with Clara  
Dawes. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this novel in which Paul Morel gives his mother Gertrude a lethal overdose of morphine.  
ANSWER:  Sons and Lovers 
[10]  Sons and Lovers  was written by this man, who wrote about Kate Leslie0s travels in Mexico in  The  
Plumed Serpent  as well as  Lady Chatterley's Lover .  
ANSWER: David Herbert  Lawrence 
E. Thomas Schelling used this methodology to show how de4facto segregation happened in the north, as  
well as to develop U.S. air power strategy in the Vietnam War. John Harsanyi won a Nobel Prize for  
studying types of selection in this field. One exercise in this field, which can be shown in normal or  
extensive form, is known as the “Stag Hunt,” while another is termed “chicken.” Important concepts in  
this field include Nash Equilibrium. For 10 points, name this branch of applied math used to analyze  
strategic behavior, such as the Prisoner’s Dilemma.  
ANSWER:  game theory 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 3 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: He created the ideas of animus and anima, and speculated that much of everything could be  
categorized into archetypes. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Swiss psychiatrist who broke with Freud because he saw Freud as merely projecting his  
own issues onto his patients.  
ANSWER: Carl  Jung 
[10] Jung believed that humankind shared this past experience from which archetypes are drawn.  
ANSWER:  collective unconscious 
D. Pierre Gassendi determined that this value is frequency4independent, and G.L. Bianconi showed that  
it increases with temperature. When this value is exceeded, strong local shock waves develop, and  
pressure waves are unable to outdistance their source. Aerodynamic drag sharply increases when  
approaching this value, surpassed by Chuck Yeager. The ratio of fluid velocity to this value in the fluid is  
known as the Mach number. For 10 points, name this value that represents the rate at which a certain  
type of compression wave travels through a material.    
ANSWER:  speed of sound 
 [prompt on early  Mach 1 ]  
Bonus: For 10 points each, name the following other properties of sound.  
[10] Sound intensity is measured in these units, usually given by ten times the base ten logarithm of the  
ratio of the sound’s intensity to a reference intensity.  
ANSWER:  decibel 
s [accept  dB > prompt on  bel s]   
[10] Many auditoriums are designed to have a high value for this quantity, the amount of time it takes  
for a sound to decay to sixty decibels below its original intensity.  
ANSWER:  reverb 
eration time  
@. This president signed the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, and appointed James Baker as his  
Secretary of State. This president gave a speech proclaiming the FNew World Order,F and signed the  
Clean Air Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The only president who also served as director of  
the CIA, he lost support by raising taxes after declaring FRead my lips: no new taxes.F His time in office  
saw the Tiananmen Square protests and the fall of the Berlin Wall. For 10 points, name this Republican  
who succeeded Ronald Reagan and lost the election of 1HH8 to Bill Clinton.  
ANSWER: George  H 
erbert  alker  W Bush  [or anything distinguishing him from George W. Bush]  
Bonus: It proposed a bicameral legislature, unlike the competing New Jersey Plan. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this plan for a national government drafted by James Madison, which was supported by large  
states.  
ANSWER:  Virginia 
 Plan  
[10] The Virginia Plan was proposed by this delegate to the Constitutional Convention, who was later  
appointed the first Attorney General of the United States.  
ANSWER: Edmund  Randolph 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 4 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 4  
Category Quiz  
Bonus Choices 
Arts  
Current Events   
Geography  
History  
Literature  
Math Calculation   
Religion  
Social Science  
Arts  
Current Events   
Geography  
History  
Literature  
Math Calculation   
Religion  
Social Science 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 5 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 4  
Category Quiz Tossups 
H. A poet from this country published the collection  Cuttlefish Bones , and one of this country0s most  
widely read novels is  The Betrothed . In a novel written by an author from this country, two readers fall in  
love after discovering misprinted copies of the title novel.  The Mandrake  and  If on a Winter's Night a  
Traveler  were written by authors from this country, in addition to many sonnets dedicated to Laura. For  
10 points, name this country, the home of Italo Calvino, Petrarch, and Dante.  
ANSWER:  Italy 
 [or  Italia ]   
10. This painting features a figure based on Agasias0s Borghese gladiator, and in its background Morro  
Castle is visible. One title character stretches up and behind himself as two white4clad sailors reach  
forward towards him. In this painting, a man in a blue coat stabs downward with a spear, and the  
second title character, mouth agape, is swimming left and presumably hungry. For 10 points, name this  
painting of Havana harbor by John Singleton Copley, in which a sailor is being rescued from a  
carnivorous fish.  
ANSWER:  Watson and the Shark 
11. He claims that the kidnapping of six year old Blaire Roche led to his later behavior after he is framed  
for the death of Edward Jacobi. His namesake journal is used for narration, and contains an entry  
stating, FOn Friday night, a comedian died in New York.F Formerly known as Walter Kovacs, his refusal to  
compromise, Feven in the face of Armageddon,F leads to his death by Doctor Manhattan. For 10 points,  
name this Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons4created character noted for his trenchcoat, brutality, and  
inkblot4like mask.  
ANSWER:  Rorschach 
 [accept Walter  Kovacs  before mentioned]   
18. Near Pilar, the Bermejo River flows into this river, and another tributary of this river is the Cuiaba,  
which meets it at Corumba. Other cities on this river include Caceres, Concepcion and Formosa, and it  
forms the boundary between four provinces and the large Presidente Hayes province in one country. At  
the largest city on this river, the Pilcomayo branches off to form a border with Argentina. For 10 points,  
name this river which flows through Asuncion in its namesake country.  
ANSWER:  Paraguay 
 River  
1<. This structure was first visualized using a namesake potassium dichromate and silver nitrate staining  
technique. Transport to and from this structure is mediated by coat proteins and clathrin. This structure  
adds mannose4E4phosphate to enzymes bound for lysosomes, and is composed of cis, medial, and trans  
compartments. The vesicular4tubular cluster separates this organelle from the endoplasmic reticulum.  
For 10 points, the modification and packaging of lipids and proteins occurs in what organelle, consisting  
of flattened stacks called cisternae and named for an Italian scientistM  
ANSWER:  Golgi 
 apparatus [or  Golgi  body] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 6 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1A. Andres Bonifacio led this country’s fight for independence, which grew out of the execution of the  
leader of the Propaganda Movement, Jose Rizal. The Nacionalista Party was founded here by Sergio  
Osmena, and it was home to the revolutionary organization Katipunan. Granted limited independence  
by the Tydings4McDuffie Act, this country later saw the People Power Revolution. Led early on by Emilio  
Aguinaldo, it was later ruled by Ferdinand Marcos. For 10 points, name this Pacific country which passed  
to American hands during the Spanish4American War.  
ANSWER: The  Philippines 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 7 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 4  
Category Quiz  
Bonuses 
Arts:  His depiction of  The Allendale Nativity  lent its name to a group of his early period paintings. In a  
better known work, a man with a staff stands in contrapposto to the left and a woman and child sit in  
the right foreground, awaiting the coming storm. For 1? points, name this creator of  The Tempest .  
ANSWER:  Giorgione 
 [or Giorgio Barbarelli da  Castelfranco ]  
Current Events:  As the head of the Al4Anfal Campaign, this man carried out the 1H@@ Halabja attack. He  
directed the destruction of the town of Dujail in 1H@<. For 1? points, name this cousin of Saddam  
Hussein, who was sentenced to death in 800D for using chemical weapons against Kurds in the 1H@0s.  
ANSWER:  Ali Hassan 
 al4Majid [or  Chemical Ali ]   
Geography:  The city of Cambridge Bay lies on an island in Nunavut named this, which is also the name of  
a Canadian city whose suburbs include Saanich and Esquimalt. For 1? points, give this common name  
shared with the capital of the Seychelles.  
ANSWER:  Victoria 
History:  It was prompted by the actions of men such as Adolphe Thiers and the banker Jacques Lafitte,  
and it led to the abdication of Charles X. For 1? points, name this 1@<0 revolution in France that led to  
the reign of Louis Philippe.  
ANSWER:  July 
 Revolution  
Literature:  This author wrote about a Chinese cardsharp named Ah Sin in FPlain Language from Truthful  
James.F For 1? points, name this author of FThe Outcasts of Poker Flat.F  
ANSWER: Bret  Harte 
Math Calculation:  For 1? points, if the supply of widgets is 80 plus < times the price of a widget in  
dollars, and demand for them is 100 minus D times the price, find the equilibrium price for widgets.  
ANSWER:  8 
 dollars [accept  -8.00 ]  
Religion:  Members of this religious group include the Zwikau Prophets. For 1? points, name this early  
Protestant movement whose members believed that only adults should be baptized.   
ANSWER:  Anabaptists 
Social Science:  At constant marginal utility, this quantity is equal to the area under the consumer  
demand curve. For 1? points, name this economic term referring to the amount a consumer pays for an  
item versus the price he would be willing to pay.  
ANSWER: consumer  surplus 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 8 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 4  
Stretch Phase 
1?. Contraction of myoepithelial cells results in the so4called “milk ejection” from one set of anatomical  
structures with this name.  Another set of anatomical structures with this name is lined with dipalmitoyl  
phosphatidylcholine, or DPPC, a surfactant that prevents these structures from collapsing during  
expiration.  For 10 points, give the common name of these groups of small sacs, one found in the  
mammary glands and one found in the lungs, the latter of which are the primary sites of gas exchange.   
ANSWER:  alveoli 
 [accept  alveolus > accept  mammary alveoli  or  acini  before “another”]  
Bonus: This philosopher killed himself by jumping into the volcano Mt. Etna. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Pre4Socratic philosopher who believed the universe was made of four elements: Earth,  
Fire, Air, and Water.  
ANSWER:  Empedocles 
 of Acragas  
[10] Adherents of this Pre4Socratic philosopher’s namesake cult refused to eat beans and believed in  
transmigration of the soul. He is better known for a theorem about sides of triangles.  
ANSWER:  Pythagoras 
 of Samos  
[10] This teacher of Pythagoras and member of the Ionian school called the organizational force of the  
universe  nous  and also developed the theory of apeiron.  
ANSWER:  Anaximander 
1E. Sally Carrol Happer flees to the South from her fiancé Harry Bellamy in this author0s story FThe Ice  
Palace.F He wrote about Horace Tarbox in FHead and Shoulders,F which along with FThe Cut4Glass BowlF  
appears in his collection  Flappers and Philosophers . He wrote about the relationship between Gloria and  
Anthony Patch0s relationship in  The Beautiful and Damned , and wrote a novel set in West Egg. For 10  
points, name this author who created the characters Jordan Baker, Daisy Buchanan, and Nick Carraway  
in  The Great Gatsby .  
ANSWER: Francis Scott Key  Fitzgerald 
Bonus: The left side of this painting includes a severed head, a mother holding her dead child, and a bull.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this stark black and white painting, whose center features a screaming horse whose tongue is  
shaped like a shard of glass.  
ANSWER:  Guernica 
[10]  Guernica  was painted by this Spanish artist who had Rose and Blue periods.  
ANSWER: Pablo  Picasso 
 y Ruiz  
[10] Picasso pioneered Analytical Cubism along with this French artist of  The Emigrant  and  Man with a  
Guitar .  
ANSWER: Georges  Braque 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 9 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1D. One protocol attached to this treaty governs one signatory’s legislation on the acquisition of second  
homes, while another governs the “excessive deficit procedure.” Article C describes a “single  
institutional framework,” while Article F refers to a 1H?0 treaty signed in Rome. Article O describes the  
conditions of admission to the body it founded, and Article P repeals parts of the 1H@E Single European  
Act. For 10 points, name this 1HH8 treaty that established the European Union, named for the Dutch city  
in which it was signed.  
ANSWER:  Maastricht 
 Treaty [accept  Treaty on European Union  early]  
Bonus: For 10 points each, name the following things about earthquakes.  
[10] Strong underwater earthquakes can spark these large waves, one of which devastated the Indian  
Ocean in late 800A.  
ANSWER:  tsunami 
[10] Earthquakes are a frequent occurrence in this type of zone, which is formed when one tectonic  
plate moves underneath another tectonic plate.  
ANSWER:  subduction 
 zones  
[10] While the Richter scale is more common, earthquakes can also be measured using this twelve4point  
scale, which is based on the type of damage that earthquakes do.  
ANSWER: Modified  Mercalli 
 Intensity Scale   
1@. The first person to describe himself using this term was Baron d’Holbach in pre4Revolutionary  
France. This religious belief was promoted by the “Young Hegelians,” who included Ludwig Feuerbach.  
This belief is central to Dialectical Materialism, and can be divided into weak and strong forms. It was  
promoted by Richard Dawkins in  The God Delusion , and it is opposed by such arguments as the  
ontological argument and Pascal’s Wager.  It can be contrasted with the similar belief of agnosticism. For  
10 points, give this term for non4belief in a God.    
ANSWER:  atheism 
 [accept  atheist s]  
Bonus: It was founded by Arthur Griffith, and its name means FWe, Ourselves.F For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Irish nationalist party, whose members formed the Dail Eireann and declared  
independence in 1H1@.  
ANSWER:  Sinn Fein 
[10] This Sinn Fein member led the IRA in its guerrilla war against Great Britain and negotiated the 1H81  
treaty that created the Irish Free State. He was assassinated in 1H88.  
ANSWER: Michael  Collins 
[10] Head of the Southeast Asia Command during World War II, this man served as the last British  
viceroy of India and was assassinated by IRA terrorists in 1HDH.  
ANSWER: Louis  Mountbatten 
1H. This piece features superpositions of an E flat dominant seventh chord. It includes rarely4heard  
instruments like the guiro, which can be heard in the section FProcession of the Sage,F and ends with a  
young girl dancing herself to death. This piece begins with a melody adapted from a Lithunanian folk  
song played by a solo bassoon in its highest register, which transitions into a dissonant chorus of  
woodwinds. Divided into FThe Adoration of the EarthF and FThe Sacrifice,F for 10 points, name this 1H1<  
ballet about pagan rituals, which caused riots at its premiere and was composed by Igor Stravinsky.  
ANSWER:  The  Rite of Spring 
  [or  Le  Sacre du Printemps ] 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 10 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: This poem represents Mary, Queen of Scots as the evil Duessa. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this English epic poem whose title figure, Gloriana, represents Elizabeth I.  
ANSWER:  The  Faerie Queene 
[10] This British poet wrote  The Shepheardes Calender  in addition to  The Faerie Queene .  
ANSWER: Edmund  Spenser 
 [accept Edmund  Spencer ]  
[10] This hero of Book I of  The Faerie Queene  eventually becomes St. George. He helps out Una by  
slaying a vicious dragon.  
ANSWER: the  Redcrosse 
 Knight   
80. One character in this work notes that FTruth0s a dog must to kennel,F in a passage that also advises  
FHave more than thou showest.F Another character in this work claims FAs flies are wanton boys we are  
to the gods44they kill us for their sport.F A third character in this play constantly claims that he0s cold  
after disguising himself as FPoor Tom O0Bedlam.F Its subplot concerns Edmund0s attempts to dupe  
Gloucester into bypassing his legitimate heir Edgar. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about the  
title ruler0s attempts to divide his kingdom between Regan, Goneril, and Cordelia.  
ANSWER:  King Lear 
Bonus: Their only external observables are mass, charge, and angular momentum, according to the no  
hair theorem.  For 10 points each:   
[10] Name these astronomical bodies that contain a singularity inside an event horizon, and which are so  
massive that no light can escape.   
ANSWER:  black hole 
s   
[10] Pair production results in black holes giving off an observable glow in radiation named for this man,  
the British author of  A Brief History of Time .   
ANSWER: Stephen  Hawking 
[10] This man’s namesake black holes have no charge and do not rotate.  He also names the distance to  
which an object must be compressed to become a black hole.   
ANSWER: Karl  Schwarzschild 
81. This battle is commemorated in the Fontana dei Quattro Mori in Marino, and its strategic effects  
were partially negated by the speedy rebuilding work of Sokollu. The hero of this battle signed the  
Perpetual Edict while serving as governor4general of the Netherlands, and was half brother of Philip II.  
Among the commanders for one side in this battle were the governor of Alexandria and the dey of  
Algiers, and it occurred in the Gulf of Patras. For 10 points, name this 1?D1 naval battle in which the  
Ottoman Empire0s fleet under Ali Pasha was defeated by the forces of Don John of Austria.  
ANSWER: Battle of  Lepanto 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 11 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Bonus: The protagonist marries Diana Vernon after inheriting his family house and fortune after the  
death of Rashleigh. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this novel in which Frank Osbaldistone encounters the titular Scottish bandit.  
ANSWER:  Rob Roy 
[10] This Scottish author of medieval romances like  Ivanhoe  wrote  Rob Roy .  
ANSWER: Sir Walter  Scott 
[10] This other Scott novel sees Tressilian and Sir Walter Raleigh too late to save Amy from plunging to  
her death, after falling through a trapdoor at the titular estate.  
ANSWER:  Kenilworth 
88. The Fisher method uses this technique to measure the amount of water in organic materials. The  
Mohr and Volhard methods employ this technique to determine chlorine and silver concentrations.  
Iodine can be used to determine starch content in one version, and bromothymol blue is among the  
indicators used in another version.  For 10 points, name this chemical analysis technique that often  
employs a burette, and which is often used to determine acid and base concentrations.   
ANSWER:  titration 
Bonus: For 10 points each, name these cities important in the Protestant Reformation.  
[10] According to legend, Martin Luther’s Ninety4Five Theses were nailed to the door of the chapel at  
this city’s University, where he was a professor of theology.  
ANSWER:  Wittenburg 
[10] Ulrich Zwingli preached from this Swiss city, but was killed after Catholic cantons laid siege to it  
during the Second Kappel War.  
ANSWER:  Zurich 
[10] A 1??? treaty signed in this city established the doctrine of  cuius regio/ eius religio , which stated  
that the religion of a German state would be determined by the prince who ruled it.  
ANSWER:  Augsburg 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 12 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
NSC-Format Set #2  
Round 4  
Tiebreakers + Extras 
1. One of these narrates a Natsume Soseki novel in which characters like Waverhouse mock his master  
Kushami. One of these creatures appears in the title of a novel about the fictional religion of  
Bokononism, which ends with the world being destroyed by ice4nine. In addition to that novel about this  
creature0s cradle, another one of these animals alerts police to the location of a murdered woman in an  
Egdar Allen Poe story about a FblackF one. For 10 points, name this animal, which appears in the title of  
a Tennessee Williams play Fon a hot tin roof.F  
ANSWER:  cat 
s   
8. This architect designed a hexagonal grid system of sliding wooden walls, the Honeycomb House.  
Concrete rectangles surround a giant central cube in this architect0s Unity Temple. He designed many  
Usonian houses, as well as a New York City art museum that consists of a central spiraling ramp. This  
architect used cantilevers in the Robie House, and pioneered the Prairie School. For 10 points, name this  
American architect of the Guggenheim museum and Fallingwater.  
ANSWER: Frank Lloyd  Wright 
<. A debate between Tartaglia and Ferrari was prompted by a paper by Girolamo Cardano explaining  
how to find these objects.  The Abel4Ruffini Theorem states that no general process exists for finding  
these objects given a quintic equation, and the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra guarantees that an  th  n 
degree polynomial has exactly   of them.  They can sometimes be found by factoring a polynomial or,  n 
with quadratic polynomials, by using the quadratic formula.  For 10 points, name these solutions to an  
equation stating that a polynomial is equal to zero.  
ANSWER:  root 
s of a polynomial [accept  roots  of a cubic polynomial or equation until “Abel”]  
Extra 804point bonus:   
Students protested this party’s monopoly on political power at the 1HE@ Olympics.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this political party, which controlled power in a certain nation for over seventy years and  
included presidents such as Miguel Aleman and Luis Echeverria.  
ANSWER:  PRI 
 [or  Institutional Revolutionary Party > or  Partido Revolucionario Institucional ]  
[10] The PRI dominated politics in this North American country until its power was broken in 8000 by  
PAN and Vicente Fox.  
ANSWER:  Mexico 
2008-2009 NSC-Format Set #2    Round 4   Page 13 of 13  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for  practice purposes only. It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
Extra <04point bonus:  
For 10 points each, name these parts of the cell cycle.  
[10] This portion of the cell cycle is characterized by an intact nuclear envelope, follows mitosis, and is  
characterized by two gap phase called G 
1 
 and G .  
8 
ANSWER:  interphase 
[10] In this other phase of interphase, which occurs between the G 
1 
 and G  phases, the genome is  
8 
replicated to produce sister chromatids.  
ANSWER:   phase [accept  S synthesis  phase]  
[10] Quiescent fibroblasts and prepubertal spermatagonia can enter this modified form of the G 
1 
 phase,  
in which cells cease growing and dividing.  
ANSWER:   phase [accept  G 
0 
G zero  phase] 
