NASAT 2011 
Round 9 
Tossups 
1. Most industrial production of methyl methacrylate involves the reaction of cyanide with this compound, 
while the controversial plastic bisphenol A is formed by reacting two molecules of phenol with a molecule 
of this compound. Like phenol, this compound is typically produced by reacting benzene with propylene to 
give cumene, then oxidizing the cumene to give phenol and this compound. Replacing its central atom with 
a sulfur produces DMSO. One danger of a high fat, low carbohydrate diet is the possible production of this 
compound in the body, which can be found in the urine of diabetics. Older methods for producing this 
compound involved the oxidation of 2-propanol. For 10 points, name this common polar solvent, the 
simplest ketone. 
ANSWER:  
acetone 
 [or  
propanone 
; or  
dimethyl ketone 
; or  
C3H6O 
] 
064-11-30-09102 
2. This author wrote “Where’er Thou Sail’st Who Sailed with Me” to commemorate the death of his older 
brother John from lockjaw, though he quipped “My life has been the poem I would have writ” to explain 
his meager poetry output. The narrator of another work is tempted to kill and eat a woodchuck and 
reluctantly drinks some dirty water from the well of John Field in “Baker Farm.” He coined the term 
“Realometer” in another section of that work in which he quotes Cowper to proclaim, “I am monarch of all 
I survey.” This author's best-known work urges you to \"simplify, simplify, simplify\" and starts with 
sections titled \"Economy\" and “Where I Lived, and What I Lived For.” For 10 points, identify this 
American author who described his stay in the woods in  
Walden 
. 
ANSWER: Henry David  
Thoreau 
020-11-30-09103 
3. This country’s economy tanked through the eighteen year corrupt rule of Siaka Stevens. In this 
modern-day country, Bai Bureh led a rebellion against British control in response to the Hut Tax. Valentine 
Strasser was responsible for the coup that overthrew this country's president Joseph Momoh. The Abudja 
and Lome agreements attempted to end one conflict in this country, in which British intervention in 
Operation Palliser defeated the RUF, once led by Foday Sankoh. That brutal civil war was notable for the 
RUF’s use of “blood diamonds” to gain funding. For 10 points, name this West African country that has its 
capital at Freetown. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Sierra Leone 
080-11-30-09104 
4. The Zipper-Rift model is one explanation for the formation of this material during one part of the Earth's 
history. Nye's equation gives the profile of aggregates of it. A tuya is a volcano underneath this. According 
to one hypothesis, the largest amount of this substance present on Earth was during part of the 
Neoproterozoic era. Since this has a high albedo, feedback loops involving this and reflected light are 
important in climate models. Information about past climates can be gleaned from trapped gases and pollen 
in cores of this. The last greatest extent of this material was about 20,000 years ago. For 10 points, name 
this material that makes up glaciers. 
ANSWER:  
ice 
 [or  
frozen water 
] 
001-11-30-09105 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. In this work, the central character meets his wife Celia Mulcaster while in South America and earlier 
learns about another family after meeting Anthony Blanche. One character in this work lives with a man 
named Kurt in Morocco and later recovers from alcoholism after joining a monastery in Tunisia. The 
protagonist breaks off his first marriage so he can marry Julia, who herself had been previously married to 
the Canadian businessman Rex Mottram. At the beginning of this work, the protagonist meets Lord 
Sebastian Flyte, a member of the aristocratic Marchmain family. Charles Ryder’s visit to the title residence 
occurs in, for 10 points, what novel by Evelyn Waugh? 
ANSWER:  
Brideshead Revisited 
064-11-30-09106 
6. He wrote that the elite keep power in capitalism by providing the public with \"goodies\" in his work  
Legitimation Crisis 
. This author also wrote about the growth of a \"literary\" version of the title concept out 
of the \"bourgeois\" version in a work that discusses the emergence of the modern social welfare state. This 
man also challenged Max Weber's definition of rationalization in a work that defines aesthetic, therapeutic, 
and explicative discourse. That work claims that the goal of the title interaction is mutual understanding. 
For 10 points, name this author of  
The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere 
 and  
The Theory of 
Communicative Action 
. 
ANSWER: Jurgen  
Habermas 
095-11-30-09107 
7. This book has been subjected to theological theories called the “framework interpretation,” and the 
“omphalos hypothesis.” This book relates the destruction of the Elamite king Chedorlaomer during at battle 
at the Vale of Siddim. In one story from this book, Simeon and Levi kill the men of Shechem to avenge the 
rape of their sister Dinah. It relates the story of God smiting Onan to punish him for spilling his seed. This 
book discusses the wandering of Hagar through the desert, the Curse of Ham, Jacob’s Ladder, and the 
construction of the Tower of Babel. For 10 points, name this book which also discusses the cursing of Cain 
and the expulsion from the Garden of Eden, the first book of the Bible. 
ANSWER:  
Genesis 
015-11-30-09108 
8. This composer expanded his early singspiel about the romantic exploits of Peter the Great into an opera 
about Frederick the Great's flute-playing career,  
The North Star. 
 This composer’s time at the Prussian court 
proved crucial to the career of Richard Wagner, as he pushed for the first performances of  
Rienzi 
 and  
The 
Flying Dutchman. 
 Ghosts of nuns rise from coffins and dance a ballet in another of his operas, which ends 
with Bertram failing to claim his title son's soul. In addition to that first “grand opera,” he also wrote about 
Valentine and Raoul’s love in an opera that ends with the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. For 10 points, 
name this composer of  
Robert the Devil 
 and  
Les Huguenots. 
ANSWER: Giacomo  
Meyerbeer 
 [or Jakob Liebmann Meyer  
Beer 
] 
019-11-30-09109 
9. This mountain’s unusual shape comes from the fact that it is a lava plug eroded by glaciers. Local tribes 
build their houses so that this mountain is visible from the door, because the god Ngai is said to live here. 
In 1888, the Hungarian explorer Count Teleki became the first European to attempt to climb this mountain, 
and also discovered nearby Lake Rudolf, now called Lake Turkana. This extinct stratovolcano dates to the 
opening of the nearby Great Rift Valley. The culture of the nearby Kikuyu tribe was described in a famous 
anthropology book about \"facing\" this mountain. For 10 points, name this second highest mountain in 
Africa, which shares its name with the home of Mombasa. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Kenya 
021-11-30-09110 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This economist was also interested in neurology, and published a brain science book titled  
The Sensory 
Order. 
 This economist’s early work focused on how information was conveyed to consumers by the cost of 
goods, the price signaling mechanism, which this economist argued created a “spontaneous order.” Late in 
his career, this economist argued that banks should be able to issue their own money, which he said would 
create a competition to create the best currency. This man’s political views can be found in the book  
The 
Constitution of Liberty. 
 His most famous book includes chapters like “why the worst rise to the top.” For 
10 points, name this Austrian economist who critiqued government central planning in  
The Road to 
Serfdom. 
ANSWER: Friedrich August von  
Hayek 
021-11-30-09111 
11. The Lares revolt was an uprising that occurred in this location in 1868. The Jayuya Uprising resulted in 
the declaration of martial law here; the next day, two nationals of this territory tried to assassinate Harry S. 
Truman. Operation Bootstrap attempted to industrialize this location after World War II. This territory’s 
first democratically elected leader was Luiz Muñoz Marin, and its first native governor, Jesus Toribio 
Piñero, succeeded Rexford Tugwell in that role. Under the Jones Act, all residents of this territory became 
citizens of its controlling nation, and it received a civilian government by the Foraker Act. For 10 points, 
name this island commonwealth of the United States. 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Puerto Rico 
088-11-30-09112 
12. The FACT complex assists in one phase of this process, and one protein that initiates this process is 
mutated in Spinocerebellar Ataxia 17, in which its poly-Q tract is expanded. This process is inhibited by 
actinomycin D. In bacteria, the rho factor can terminate this process, and sigma factors help initiate it. 
Roger Kornberg isolated the protein complex responsible for initiating this process, which assembles itself 
at the TATA box. RNA polymerase II binding starts this process, which creates its product from 5 prime to 
3 prime. For 10 points, name this genetic process in which DNA is read and written to RNA. 
ANSWER:  
Transcription 
048-11-30-09113 
13. This character meets an old Mexican woman whose only French consists of the phrase “tous les deux.” 
He is last seen singing from Schubert’s  
Winterreise 
 on the battlefields of Flanders. Like his cousin Joachim 
Ziemssen, he is treated by Dr. Behrens, who gives him an X-ray of the married Russian woman Claudia 
Chauchat. This character is inspired by the vivacity of the Dutch famer Mynheer Peeperkorn, and enjoys 
observing the endless debates between the Italian humanist Ludovico Settembrini and the apostate Jew Leo 
Naptha. For 10 points, name this character who spends seven years in at the International Sanatorium 
Berghof in Thomas Mann’s  
The Magic Mountain 
. 
ANSWER: Hans  
Castorp 
 [or  
Hans 
 Castorp] 
015-11-30-09114 
14. This artist painted his wife Georgette reclining nude with a conch shell on her stomach in  
Olympia 
. He 
painted a self portrait of himself looking at an egg and painting a bird, and another work in which a cage is 
filled with a giant egg. This artist depicted a copy of  
Arthur Pym 
 on the mantle in his painting  
Not To Be 
Reproduced 
. He painted simple objects like a bow, a candle, and a mirror below the title figure of  
The 
Reckless Sleeper 
, and depicted a painting merging into the background in  
The Human Condition 
. He 
painted men falling from the sky in one work, and a train emerging from a fireplace in another. For 10 
points, name this surrealist artist of  
Time Transfixed 
 who painted an apple covering a face in  
The Son of 
Man 
. 
ANSWER: Rene  
Magritte 
015-11-30-09115 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. One model of these devices is known as the most exquisite model. An older method for making these is 
the double diffused epitaxial process. For one of these devices, the transport factor over one minus the 
transport factor is equal to the gain. Their modes of operation are cutoff, forward active, reverse active, and 
saturation. They are the subject of the Gummel-Poon and the Ebbers-Moll models. The increase of a 
particular voltage in one causes an increase in current known as the Early effect. They can be of either pnp 
or npn form, and they consist of a collector, base, and emitter. For 10 points, name this type of transistor 
that contrast with field effect transistors. 
ANSWER:  
bipolar junction 
 transistor [or  
BJT 
; prompt on \"transistor\"] 
001-11-30-09116 
16. A general from this city named Pagondas led the victorious forces over Athens at the battle of Delium. 
This city allied with Sparta during the Peloponnesian War, partly because of the support Athens gave its 
regional rival Plataea. It later turned on Sparta, killing Lysander at the Battle of Haliartus. This city’s 
victory over Sparta at Mantinea proved costly, as it lost Epaminondas, who had raised this city to new 
heights by winning at Leuctra and leading the Sacred Band. For 10 points, name this Boeotian city which 
was conquered by Philip of Macedon at Chaeronea and which was the mythological city founded by 
Cadmus. 
ANSWER:  
Thebes 
015-11-30-09117 
17. During a 2008 conference in Trieste, this man jumped out from behind a column in an effort to surprise 
Angela Merkel. In 2009, this man was hit in the face with a model of a cathedral. He was criticized for 
complimenting Barack Obama’s suntan, twice. He is currently in power as the head of the “People of 
Freedom” Party, which rules in a coalition with the Northern League. The Moroccan belly dancer Ruby 
Rubacuori alleged that this man liked to have “bunga bunga” parties at his private residence. This man is 
the owner of most of the television stations in his country, and is frequently opposed by Romano Prodi. For 
10 points, name this Prime Minister of Italy. 
ANSWER: Silvio  
Berlusconi 
015-11-30-09118 
18. This woman is often depicted with butterfly wings. An oracle told this woman's parents to abandon her 
on a rock to be married to a snakelike monster, but she was then rescued by Zephyr. This woman then lived 
in a house with invisible servants, where she accidentally spilled oil on her sleeping husband after her 
envious sisters urged her to look at him. The story of this woman first appeared in Apuleius'  
The Golden 
Ass 
. This woman separated grains with the help of some ants and also retrieved golden wool stuck to 
branches. After appeasing Venus, this woman became the goddess of the soul. For 10 points, name this 
wife of Cupid. 
ANSWER:  
Psyche 
105-11-30-09119 
19. One of this composer’s works has an epigraph from Henri de Regnier that describes a laughing river 
god; that piece is his  
Fountains 
. He paid homage to Schubert in his eight  
Valses nobles et sentimentales 
, 
and composed \"Lever du jour,\" often translated as \"Daybreak,\" for a ballet based on a book by Longus. He 
composed movements representing a mermaid, a guillotine, and a malevolent dwarf for a work inspired by 
three poems by Aloysius Bertrand. This composer of  
Gaspard de la Nuit 
 also wrote an 1899 piano piece 
evoking a 17th century Spanish dance, which he titled  
Pavane for a Dead Princess 
. For 10 points, name 
this French composer of a repetitive work underpinned by a snare drum ostinato,  
Bolero 
. 
ANSWER: Maurice  
Ravel 
080-11-30-09120 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. This poet wrote \"all the way, to guide their chime with falling oars they kept the time\" in his poem 
\"Bermudas.\" Images in another poem by this man include the \"iron gate of life\" and the \"Humber.\" He 
noted \"How vainly men themselves amaze to win the palm, the oak, or bays\" in \"The Garden.\" The narrator 
of another of his poems suggests rolling \"all our strength, and all our sweetness up into one ball,\" but 
worries that \"at my back I always hear time's winged chariot hurrying near.\" That work begins \"Had we but 
world enough, and time.\" For 10 points, name this author of \"To His Coy Mistress.\" 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Marvell 
088-11-30-09121 
21. This poet claimed, \"My word I poured\" but the \"steep encroachment of my blood left me / No answer\" 
after asserting \"I entered the broken world / To trace the visionary company of love.\" The speaker of one 
poem claims \"Monody shall not wake the mariner\" while another poem begins “The mind has shown itself 
at times / Too much the baked and labeled dough\". This poet of \"The Broken Tower\" wrote about the \"dice 
of drowned men's bones\" in his poem \"At Melville's Tomb\" which appears in his collection  
White 
Buildings 
, while another work begins with a \"Proem\" and features a section spoken by Christopher 
Columbus. For 10 points, name this American poet who included the sections “Powhatan’s Daughter” and 
“Cutty Sark” in his epic  
The Bridge 
. 
ANSWER: Hart  
Crane 
024-11-30-09122 
22. This event caused Pope Gregory XVI to issue a document on civil disobedience entitled  
Cum Primum 
. 
Sometimes referred to as the Cadet Revolution since it started at a military academy, its members included 
the young Countess Emilia Plater. It saw one side decisively defeated at the Battle of Ostroleka and it 
opened with a failed assassination attempt on Grand Duke Constantine Pavlovich, who wanted to use 
troops to put down the July Revolution in France. Jan Skrzynecki led one side during this event, which 
hoped to topple the rule of Czar Nicholas I. For 10 points, name this 1830-1831 Polish uprising against 
Russian rule. 
ANSWER:  
November Uprising 
 [or  
Cadet Revolution 
 before it is read] 
064-11-30-09123 
23. The existence of an “Axis of Evil” in the CMB may indicate that this process occurred in a certain 
direction, though the occurrence of this process would imply that the universe is isotropic. The occurrence 
of this process implies that the gravitational collapse of quantum fluctuations lead to the formation of 
large-scale structures, and the gravitational radiation produced by this process is encoded in the B-modes of 
the CMB. The original formulation of this process had a metastable supercooled state terminated by a 
process of bubble nucleation via quantum tunneling, though that model suffered from the graceful exit 
problem. Linde proposed a slow-roll version of this process, and it was originally postulated to solve the 
flatness, horizon, and monopole problems. Originally proposed by Alan Guth, for 10 points, name this 
process of rapid exponential expansion in the early universe, immediately after the big bang. 
ANSWER: cosmic  
inflation 
048-11-30-09124 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 9 
Bonuses 
1. Edward FitzGerald’s famous translation of this poem begins “Wake!” and notes “the Moving Finger 
writes; and, having writ, moves on.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this collection of quatrains by Omar Khayyam. 
ANSWER:  
Rubaiyat  of Omar Khayyam 
[10] This Persian epic was written by Ferdowsi and is the national epic of Iran. 
ANSWER:  
Shahnameh 
 [or  
The  Book of Kings 
] 
[10] In one scene from the Shahnameh, the king Rostam accidentally kills this son of his. 
ANSWER:  
Sohrab 
015-11-30-09201 
2. For 10 points each, identify these Roman poets. 
[10] This author of  
Ars Poetica 
 wrote a series of poems whose first part is “Qui fit Maecenas” titled  
The 
Satires 
. 
ANSWER:  
Horace 
 or Quintus  
Horatius 
 Flaccus 
[10] This Roman poet wrote 116  
Carmina 
, many of which are addressed to the sister of Clodia including a 
famous poem about his lover's sparrow. 
ANSWER: Gaius Valerius  
Catullus 
[10] This author wrote  
Liber Spectaculorum 
 but is better known for a work of short witty poems called  
Epigrams 
. 
ANSWER: Marcus Valerius  
Martial 
is 
064-11-30-09202 
3. A poor man in this play is told by the title character that two boys are \"foes to my rest, and my sweet 
sleep's disturbers.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Tyrrell murders the Princes of the Tower by the orders of the title monarch in what Shakespeare play, 
opening with the title character saying \"Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this 
sun of York?\" 
ANSWER:  
Richard III 
[10] Prior to its appearance in the First Folio,  
Richard III 
 appeared in this format, which is one book size 
shorter. 
ANSWER:  
quarto 
[10] Only the quartos contain this play written either by Fletcher or by Shakespeare. It was adapted from 
\"The Knight's Tale\" and includes a tournament fought for the hand of Emilia by Palamon and Arcite. 
ANSWER:  
The  Two Noble Kinsmen 
020-11-30-09203 
4. Gian Carlo Menotti wrote the libretto for this man’s opera  
Vanessa 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this American composer who was inspired by  
Prometheus Unbound 
 to write  
Music for a Scene 
from Shelley 
. 
ANSWER: Samual  
Barber 
[10] Barber is best known for this piece, which was premiered by Toscanini with the NBC Symphony 
Orchestra and played at the funeral of FDR. 
ANSWER:  
Adagio for Strings 
[10] Eleanor Steber commissioned this Barber work for soprano and orchestra which was inspired by the 
writing of James Agee. 
ANSWER:  
Knoxville: Summer of 1915 
015-11-30-09204 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. At one end of this structure is the helicotrema, which connects the scala tympani and scala vestibuli. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this snail-shaped organ in the inner ear, which contains the Organ of Corti. 
ANSWER:  
cochlea 
[10] The Organ of Corti contains a single row of these primary sense transducers, which convert 
mechanical shear force into electrical impulses. They get their name from the tufts of stereocillia on their 
apical surface. 
ANSWER:  
hair cell 
s 
[10] Transduction of sound into the cochlea is done by the foot-plate of this bone, the third of the small 
bones in the inner ear. 
ANSWER:  
stirrup 
 [or  
stapes 
] 
003-11-30-09205 
6. Book IV of this work sees a discussion about the nature of substances between its two central characters, 
Philalethes and Theophilus. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this philosophical work, a response to a similarly titled text by John Locke. 
ANSWER:  
New Essays on Human Understanding 
[10] The  
New Essays on Human Understanding 
 were written by this German philosopher, the co-inventor 
of calculus. 
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm  
Leibniz 
[10] In this philosopher’s preface to Leibniz’s  
Monadology 
, he asked, “Can you really believe that a drop 
of urine is an infinity of monads?” He wrote himself about the idea of neutral monism in works like  
The 
Analysis of Matter 
 and “On Denoting”. 
ANSWER: Bertrand Arthur William  
Russell 
094-11-30-09206 
7. This painting was influenced by the city grid of Manhattan. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting, which shows a series of red, yellow, and blue squares on a white background. 
ANSWER:  
Broadway Boogie-Woogie 
[10]  
Broadway Boogie-Woogie 
 is a painting by this Neo-Plasticist artist. 
ANSWER: Piet  
Mondrian 
 [or Pieter Cornelis  
Mondrian 
] 
[10] Mondrian founded the De Stijl school of art with this artist whose works include  
Arithmetic 
Composition 
. 
ANSWER: Theo  
van Doesburg 
088-11-30-09207 
8. This man’s sister became Empress of Mexico, and through maneuverings he gained a personal African 
colony which he governed with the Force Publique. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Belgian monarch who ruled the Congo Free State. 
ANSWER:  
Leopold II 
[10] Leopold hired this explorer to establish his Congo colony. As a journalist, this man had found 
Livingstone in Africa. 
ANSWER: Henry Morton  
Stanley 
[10] This Irishman published a namesake report detailing this horrors of the Belgian Congo. He was 
arrested and executed as a conspirator after the Easter Rising. 
ANSWER: Roger  
Casement 
015-11-30-09208 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. One character repeatedly comments on how certain bathroom graffiti is both a misquote and a 
misattribution and also discusses a fictional sci-fi novel about a hero named Alex Thomas. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Iris Chase Griffin describes the events leading up to her sister Laura's 
suicide. 
ANSWER:  
The  Blind Assassin 
[10] This other character describes her new life in the theocratic Republic of Gilead as the title handmaid in 
The Handmaid's Tale 
. 
ANSWER:  
Offred 
 [or  
June 
] 
[10] This Canadian author of  
Oryx and Crake 
 and  
Alias Grace 
 wrote both  
The Blind Assassin 
 and  
The 
Handmaid's Tale 
. 
ANSWER: Margaret Eleanor  
Atwood 
003-11-30-09209 
10. Some functions these things perform include function inlining. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these devices that convert \"high level\" languages into machine code. 
ANSWER:  
compiler 
s 
[10] Many high level languages are usually converted into a low level language through one of these 
devices, that analyzes a sequenced of tokenized text to determine its structure. 
ANSWER:  
parser 
s 
[10] This way of representing context free grammars is often used to describe CFG's that parse high level 
languages. It consists of a symbol, vertical bars, and nonterminals and expressions on another side. 
ANSWER:  
Backus-Naur 
 form 
033-11-30-09210 
11. Echo was scattered around the earth after she was pursued by this god. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Greek god of shepherds. 
ANSWER:  
Pan 
[10] This was the name of the nymph transformed into a set of water reed pipes by Pan. 
ANSWER:  
Syrinx 
[10] In yet another story, Pan engaged Apollo in a music contest judged by this son of Ares and god of the 
mountains. 
ANSWER:  
Tmolus 
064-11-30-09211 
12. One example of this type of equation is Pell’s equation. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give this term for a polynomial equation whose solutions are required to be integral. 
ANSWER:  
Diophantine 
 equation 
[10] An example of a Diophantine equation is a to the n plus b to the n equals c to the n, which, according 
to this theorem, has no solutions if n is greater than two. It was proven by Andrew Wiles. 
ANSWER:  
Fermat’s last 
 theorem 
[10] An important breakthrough in solving Fermat's last theorem was the proof that all rational curves of 
this type are modular. These cubic curves are non-singular and of genus one. 
ANSWER:  
elliptic 
 curve 
024-11-30-09212 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. This river runs into the Chesapeake Sea, and its namesake aqueduct was built by Montgomery C. Meigs 
to provide water to Washington D.C. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this major river of northern Virginia and Maryland. 
ANSWER:  
Potomac 
 River 
[10] This town sits on the Potomac River in Jefferson County West Virginia. It changed hands eight times 
during the Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
Harper’s Ferry 
[10] Harper’s Ferry is built on the confluence of the Potomac with this principal tributary. 
ANSWER:  
Shenandoah 
 River 
015-11-30-09213 
14. This war was ended by the Moscow Peace Treaty. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this war, fought after Russia breaced the Mannerheim Line. 
ANSWER:  
Winter 
 War 
[10] Russia fought this country in the Winter War, and again in the Continuation War. 
ANSWER:  
Finland 
[10] This prime minister of France, who had been a negotiator at Munich, resigned in March of 1940 after 
he proved unable to organize French military aid to Finland as promised during the Winter War. 
ANSWER: Edouard  
Daladier 
081-11-30-09214 
15. This book contains the story of the Holy Spirit filling the believers on Pentecost and the conversion of 
Paul. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this fifth book of the New Testament. 
ANSWER:  
Acts 
 of the Apostles 
[10] Consensus holds that Acts was written by this apostle. He was thought to be a doctor and the author of 
the longest of the gospels. 
ANSWER:  
Luke 
 the Evangelist 
[10] The “two source” hypothesis holds that the gospels of Matthew and Luke were both written from the 
book of Mark and this hypothetical source. 
ANSWER:  uelle source 
Q 
015-11-30-09215 
16. Pius IX threatened this monarch with excommunication, and his rise is generally credited with his 
decision to let Count Cavour run his government. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this first king of a unified Italy. 
ANSWER:  
Victor Emmanuel II 
 [prompt on  
Victor Emmanuel 
; do not accept or prompt on a single name 
only] 
[10] Victor Emmanuel was a member of this Italian house whose member Amadeo I briefly ruled Spain. 
ANSWER: House of  
Savoy 
[10] This son of Victor Emmanuel II ruled Italy until he was assassinated by Gaetano Bresci in 1900 for 
supporting the Bava-Beccaris massacre. 
ANSWER:  
Umberto I 
015-11-30-09216 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. This character is given a magic cream that transforms her into a witch allowing her to flood the 
apartment of the vindictive literary editor Latunsky. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who becomes the hostess of Satan's Ball where she drinks Baron Meigel's blood 
before reuniting with her beloved, who wrote a novel about Pontius Pilate. 
ANSWER:  
Margarita 
[10] This Russian author wrote about Satan assuming the guise of Professor Woland in his novel  
The 
Master and Margarita 
. 
ANSWER: Mikhail  
Bulgakov 
[10] Most critics argue this character is the real protagonist of the novel. He is put in an asylum after 
witnessing the supernatural death if Berlioz and at the end of the book he decides to decides to give up 
poetry to become a historian. 
ANSWER:  
Homeless 
 [or Ivan  
Bezdomny 
; or Ivan Nikolayevich  
Ponyryov 
] 
015-11-30-09217 
18. Name these works of Frank Lloyd Wright, for 10 points each: 
[10] Wright designed this house in Mill Run, Pennsylvania for the Kaufmann family. This house is built 
directly over a waterfall. 
ANSWER:  
Fallingwater 
[10] This hotel survived the 1923 Great Tokyo earthquake; it includes a reflecting pool and is shaped like a 
\"H\" being cut through by an \"I.\" 
ANSWER:  
Imperial 
 Hotel 
[10] This building in Scottsdale Arizona houses both the Frank Lloyd Wright School of Architecture and 
the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation. 
ANSWER:  
Taliesin West 
088-11-30-09218 
19. The first of these says that a planetary orbit around the sun is elliptical and the second says that the 
planet will sweep out equal area in equal time. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these three laws proposed by a Seventeenth century astronomer to explain the motion of planets. 
ANSWER:  
Kepler's laws 
 of planetary motion 
[10] In two body systems obeying an inverse square law, this vector quantity in addition to energy and 
angular momentum must be conserved. Its equals angular momentum cross velocity minus a vector valued 
function of the force and position. 
ANSWER: Laplace  
Runge-Lenz 
 vector 
[10] The Runge-Lenz vector points in the direction of the perihelion and has magnitude equal to this. It is 
equal to distance between the foci divided by the largest distance across the orbit. 
ANSWER:  
eccentricity 
 [prompt on  ] 
e 
001-11-30-09219 
20. This law was widely blamed for the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Amendment to the Constitution that was repealed by the Twenty-First after banning 
intoxicating liquors for over thirteen years. 
ANSWER:  
Eighteen 
th Amendment 
[10] This law named for the Chair of the House judiciary Committee enabled the Eighteenth Amendment 
by defining “intoxicating liquor” and listing the penalties for breaking the law. 
ANSWER:  
Volstead 
 Act 
[10] The Volstead Act was drafted by Wayne Wheeler, the head of this pro-temperance organization 
founded by Howard Hyde Russell. 
ANSWER:  
Anti-Saloon League 
015-11-30-09220 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
21. The Wolff theorem provides constraints on their formations and transformations. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these materials with a repeating regular form such as calcite or halite. 
ANSWER:  
crystal 
[10] These are deviations from regular crystal structure, examples of which include Schottky and Frenkel 
types. 
ANSWER: crystal  
defects 
 [or point  
defects 
] 
[10] The magnitude of the Burgers vector is directly proportional to the length of this smallest repeating 
unit in a lattice, which determines which of the seven crystal systems a crystal belongs to. 
ANSWER:  
unit cell 
003-11-30-09221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 9     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
