National History Bowl 11 
Round 2 
First Quarter 
1. One leader of this movement, Job Shattuck, marched with a group of 200 men on the Middlesex County 
Courthouse. This uprising was often associated with debt collection courts being shut down in the state of 
Massachusetts, and after this event ended, its namesake received a $20 monthly stipend from the 
government for his military service. For 10 points, name this uprising of veterans of the American 
Revolution in 1786 and 1787. 
ANSWER:  
Shays' 
 rebellion 
088-11-31-02101 
2. The most famous picture of this event showed the dying infant Baylee Almon carried in the arms of the 
firefighter Chris Fields. A leg found afterwords was thought to belong to a 169th victim. The perpetrator of 
this event used the name Robert D. Kling to rent a Ryder truck, and Michael Fortier testified against Terry 
Nichols regarding this event. For 10 points, name this attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Building by Timothy 
McVeigh. 
ANSWER:  
Oklahoma City Bombing 
 [accept answers indicating a bombing or terrorist attack on the 
Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building] 
088-11-31-02102 
3. This signer of the Port Elliott Treaty made a speech in 1854 to greet superintendent Isaac Stevens. Dr. 
Henry Smith's recollections have spawned several false versions of what he supposedly said in that speech, 
many emphasizing an ecological theme. This man was a chief of the Duwamish and Suquamish. For 10 
points, name this man, the namesake of a major city in the Pacific Northwest located on the Puget Sound. 
ANSWER: Chief  
Seattle 
 [or  
Sealth 
] 
030-11-31-02103 
4. George III refused to offer this self-styled \"Prince of Tauris\" the Order of the Garter. Alexander 
Yermolov failed to oust this man from favor, while he himself had ousted Alexander Vassilchikov from 
favor after distinguishing himself in the First Russo-Turkish War. For 10 points, name this confidant and 
lover of Catherine the Great, who apocryphally constructed sham villages for her visit to the Crimea. 
ANSWER: Grigori Alexandrovich  
Potemkin 
003-11-31-02104 
5. The criminalization of this practice was upheld in  
Reynolds v. U.S. 
 and reaffirmed by the 
Edmunds-Tucker Act. The law outlawing it was proposed by Justin Morrill. This practice was officially 
abandoned in an 1890 Manifesto by Wilford Woodruff, who saw it as the final impediment to gaining 
statehood for Utah. For 10 points, name this practice of taking multiple spouses, practiced by many 
nineteenth-century Mormons. 
ANSWER:  
polygamy 
 [or  
polygyny 
; or  
plural marriage 
; prompt on  
bigamy 
] 
003-11-31-02105 
6. Hiram Hover was shot for attempting to recruit blacks into this organization in Georgia. It was a leading 
proponent of the Chinese Exclusion Act. The  
Adelphon Kruptos 
 was a collection of its rituals, and this 
organization dropped its rule of secrecy in 1881. Founded by Uriah Stephens and led by Terrence 
Powderly, this group saw a decline after the Haymarket Square bombing. For 10 points, name this early 
American labor union. 
ANSWER:  
Knights of Labor 
030-11-31-02106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. An Adam Hochschild collection of essays and reports is titled after this monarch's \"ghost.\" This king was 
criticized in the Casement Report, which detailed atrocities carried out during rubber harvesting by the 
Force Publique. This king hired Henry Morton Stanley to maintain the land he was personally granted at 
the Congress of Vienna. For 10 points, name this Belgian King who established the Congo Free State. 
ANSWER:  
Leopold II 
015-11-31-02107 
8. This politician angered the British and Russians by describing a Europe “from the Atlantic to the Urals.” 
René Coty threatened to resign unless this man was made president. He was opposed by a series of May 
1968 riots, and was forced to negotiate with the FLN and grant Algerian independence. For 10 points, name 
this French president who served from 1959 to 1969 after working with the Free French during World War 
II. 
ANSWER: Charles  
de Gaulle 
015-11-31-02108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 2 
Second Quarter 
1.  
After meetings with Vyacheslav Molotov, Soviet Russia and its allies launched the Comecon and 
refused to participate in this plan. It was announced in a graduation speech given at Harvard 
University and designed in part by (*) 
 William Clayton, George Kennan, and a Secretary of State. For 10 
points, name this American economic plan that intended to halt the spread of Communism by providing 
financial support to European nations, which was conducted under Harry S. Truman. 
ANSWER:  
Marshall 
 Plan or  
European Recovery 
 Plan or  
ERP 
BONUS: The Marshall Plan contrasted with which plan, named for a US Secretary of the Treasury, to 
deindustrialize Germany in the wake of World War II? 
ANSWER:  
Morgenthau 
 Plan 
088-11-31-02101 
2.  
This man emerged as prime minster following the so called “coupon election”. Lord Milner had 
earlier served as this man’s War Secretary. As Chancellor of the Exchequer he developed the 
People’s Budget, which taxed luxury goods to fund social programs. This man served between 
Andrew Bonar Law and Herbert (*) 
 Asquith in his highest post, where his rule saw the issuing of the 
Balfour Declaration and the Anglo-Irish War leading to the Irish Free State. For 10 points, name this 
British prime minister during the latter half of World War I, who represented his country at the Versailles 
Peace Conference. 
ANSWER: David  
Lloyd George 
BONUS: Which man negotiated with Lloyd George while representing Italy as its prime minister at the 
Versailles conference? 
ANSWER: Vittorio  
Orlando 
064-11-31-02102 
3.  
The Supreme Court ruled that the Taxing and Spending Clause did not violate this amendment in  
South Dakota v. Dole . It was not ratified by the state legislatures, making it the only amendment to be 
ratified by state ratifying conventions. Most cases dealing with this amendment focus on Section 2, 
which is about “the transportation or importation...of (*) 
 intoxicating liquors,” while Section 1 repealed 
an amendment enforced by the Volstead Act. For 10 points, name this 1933 amendment which repealed 
Prohibition. 
ANSWER:  
Twenty-First 
 Amendment to the United States Constitution 
BONUS: Perhaps somewhat ironically, the twenty-first amendment came into effect when which state 
became the 36th to approve it? 
ANSWER:  
Utah 
024-11-31-02103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
A recently-created party in this country is known as the MOLIRENA. This country was led on 
three separate occasions by Arnulfo Arias, who was deposed by a coup each time. Thanks to figures 
such as Belisario Porras and Victoriano Lorenzo, this country gained its independence in the 
Thousand Days’ War, which led to its separation from (*) 
 Colombia. In 1903, it signed the 
Hay-Bunau-Varilla treaty with the United States, creating an American territory within this country. For 10 
points, name this country home to the birthplace of John McCain, the location of a notable canal. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Panama 
 [or República de  
Panamá 
] 
BONUS: Which 1980’s leader of Panama was extradited to France and sentenced to 7 years in prison there 
last year? 
ANSWER: Manuel  
Noriega 
024-11-31-02104 
5.  
One group in this election ended their convention with the singing of  Onward, Christian Soldier  and 
was funded primarily by Frank Munsey and George Perkins. That group nominated California 
governor Hiram Johnson as its vice-presidential candidate. The Socialist Party got the highest 
percentage of the popular vote in this election that saw Eugene Debs run for a fourth time. The 
Democratic Party nominated a former president of (*) 
 Princeton and governor of New Jersey. For 10 
points, name this U.S. presidential election in which Theodore Roosevelt’s Bull Moose Party split the 
Republican vote, allowing Woodrow Wilson to win his first term. 
ANSWER: United States Presidential Election of  
1912 
BONUS: Which other election year saw Ross Perot challenge the two party system by running with 
Admiral James Stockdale? 
ANSWER:  
1992 
064-11-31-02105 
6.  
One of these events in Ireland saw a battle at Ballingarry and was also known as the Young 
Irelander Rebellion. One of these events took place in Sicily and resulted in it becoming independent 
for sixteen months. The one which took place in France is known as the February Revolution and led 
to the creation of the (*) 
 Second Republic and the abdication of Louis-Philippe. The Hungarian one was 
led by Lajos Kossuth and forced Metternich to resign. For 10 points, name this series of revolutions which 
took place in Europe in a certain mid-19th-century year. 
ANSWER:  
Revolutions of 1848 
 [prompt on  
revolutions 
 or equivalents] 
BONUS: What country was largely spared from the turmoil of the Revolutions of 1848 though it had 
endured the Sonderbund War a few years earlier? 
ANSWER:  
Switzerland 
024-11-31-02106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
Fletcher Brown was mayor during this event. Local Nation Lawyers’ Guild president Robert 
Kenney led one investigation of this event, while Jack Tenney, the head of HUAC, led another 
investigation to uncover any links to the Axis powers. It was sparked by war time restrictions on the 
amount of fabric that could be used for a (*) 
 style of clothing that featured high waist pants, a long coat, 
and a pork pie hat, all of which was favored by recent Mexican immigrants. For 10 points, name this series 
of 1943 riots in Los Angeles. 
ANSWER:  
Zoot Suit 
 riots 
BONUS: What swing revival band of the late 1990’s scored a hit with their song “Zoot Suit Riot?” 
ANSWER:  
Cherry Poppin’ Daddies 
064-11-31-02107 
8.  
A fleet led by Lourenco de Almeida was among the first Europeans to colonize this modern day 
nation. One empire in this modern day nation, whose largest ethnic group is known as the Sinhalese, 
had its capital at Nallur. The Palk Strait is at the northern end of this nation, as is a series of small 
islands known as (*) 
 Adam’s Bridge. The northern tip of this island was also home to this nation’s Jaffna 
kingdom, which ruled at the same time as other empires on this modern country like the Kotte Kingdom 
and the Kandy Kingdom. For 10 points, name this Asian nation once known as Ceylon. 
ANSWER: Democratic Socialist Republic of  
Sri Lanka 
 [or  
Ceylon 
 before mentioned] 
BONUS: What terrorist group was largely destroyed by the Sri Lankan army in 2009 after fighting a Civil 
War with Sri Lanka for 26 years? 
ANSWER:  
Tamil Tigers 
 [or  
LTTE 
 or  
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam 
] 
064-11-31-02108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 2 
Third Quarter 
VICE PRESIDENTS 
Name the U.S. Vice President who... 
A. Was the first man to hold the office, and second President? 
ANSWER: John  
Adams 
B. Killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel? 
ANSWER: Aaron  
Burr 
C. Lent his name to the process of drawing electoral districts for political gain? 
ANSWER: Elbridge  
Gerry 
D. Disagreed with Andrew Jackson during the Nullification Crisis? 
ANSWER: John Caldwell  
Calhoun 
E. Served as Lincoln's first Vice President? 
ANSWER: Hannibal  
Hamlin 
F. Succeeded Gerry and presided under James Monroe? 
ANSWER: Daniel D.  
Tompkins 
G. Served under Polk? 
ANSWER: George Mifflin  
Dallas 
H. Died only weeks after his 1853 swearing-in? 
ANSWER: William Rufus de Vane  
King 
081-11-31-0210-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE SUPREME COURT 
(Moderator's note: Only the name of one party is required for each answer.) 
In which Supreme Court case did the Court... 
A. Establish the basis for judicial review? 
ANSWER:  
Marbury 
 v.  
Madison 
B. Invoke the \"necessary and proper\" clause to justify the charter of the Second Bank of the U.S? 
ANSWER:  
McCulloch 
 v. Maryland 
C. Rule that the plaintiff's African descent rendered him without standing to file a suit? 
ANSWER:  
Dred Scott 
 v.  
Sandford 
D. Interpret the Commerce Clause to invalidate a New York state law? 
ANSWER:  
Gibbons 
 v.  
Ogden 
E. First rule a state law unconstitutional, in this case involving Georgia property rights? 
ANSWER:  
Fletcher 
 v.  
Peck 
F. Demur from annulling a charter granted to the namesake learning establishment by the British crown? 
ANSWER: Trustees of  
Dartmouth College 
 v.  
Woodward 
G. First decide a case? 
ANSWER:  
West 
 v.  
Barnes 
H. Overturn a Wisconsin court to rule that state courts cannot contradict the rulings of federal courts? 
ANSWER:  
Ableman 
 v.  
Booth 
081-11-31-0210-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES OF AMERICA 
What Native American tribe… 
A. Fought three wars in Florida, including one under Osceola? 
ANSWER:  
Seminole 
B. Had a written language developed by Sequoyah? 
ANSWER:  
Cherokee 
 Nation 
C. Included Sacagawea? 
ANSWER:  
Shoshone 
D. Was led by Blue Jacket and Tecumseh? 
ANSWER:  
Shawnee 
E. Fought Andrew Jackson at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend? 
ANSWER:  
Creek 
 [or  
Muscogee 
; or  
Red Sticks 
] 
F. Built the city of Cahokia? 
ANSWER:  
Mississippian 
s 
G. Lived at Chaco Canyon and Mesa Verde? 
ANSWER:  
Anasazi 
 [or  
Hisatsinom 
; prompt on  
Basketmaker 
; prompt on  
Pueblo 
] 
H. Was forced on a \"Long Walk\" to Fort Sumner? 
ANSWER:  
Navajo 
 [or  
Dine 
] 
003-11-31-0210-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 2 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
This European country controls the humorously-named island of \"Lol Land\". The criteria that 
countries must meet in order to join the European Union are named after this country's capital. This 
country's northern-most point is located near the city of (+)  Skagen. The Kattegat and the Skagerrak 
are sea channels that separate this country from its northern neighbors. Much of this country is on 
the (*) 
 Jutland peninsula. In 1864, this country fought Prussia and Austria for control of its two southern 
regions, Schleswig and Holstein. Found between the North and Baltic seas, for 10 points, name this 
Scandinavian country with capital Copenhagen. 
ANSWER:  
Denmark 
021-11-31-02101 
2.  
One of this man's guides had a name that meant \"Give me Wealth, or Goods\", but usually 
referred to as Mohamad bin Saleh. The artist Thomas Baines accompanied him on one trip. To avoid 
punishment, some of his men that deserted told officials that this man was (+)  killed by the Ngoni. 
This man was aided by the doctor John Kirk. His boat was called the  Lady Nyassa  and his team was 
the first from Europe to see lake Ngami. He named (*) 
 Victoria Falls and conducted a famous Zambezi 
Expedition. He died during his attempts to find the source of the Nile. 10 points, name this Victorian age 
explorer of Africa and missionary who was sought out by Henry Stanley. 
ANSWER: Dr. David  
Livingstone 
001-11-31-02102 
3.  
One group that took part in this event had a name that translates to \"Those Who Have the Same 
Goal.\" That group, the Impuzamugambi worked with the Interahamwe. The French intervened in it 
through (+)  Operation Turquoise. Some of the things that sparked this event were the assassination 
of Agathe Uwilingiyimana and the shooting down of the plane carrying President Habyarimana. 
Radio broadcasts during it instructed the perpetrators to kill what were dubbed the (*) 
\"cockroaches.\" One film about this event told the story of a hotel manager who tried to save the lives of 
those targeted by it. For 10 points, name this 1994 massacre of the Tutsi in a certain African country. 
ANSWER:  
Rwandan Genocide 
 of 1994 [or  
Rwanda Genocide 
 of 1994] 
001-11-31-02103 
4.  
This president popularized the phrases “kindler, gentler nation” and “a thousand points of light.” 
After losing a senate race to Lloyd Bentsen, this man served as Ambassador to the U.N. and then as 
(+)  RNC Chairman during the Watergate scandal. This politician critiqued an opponent’s policy in 
coining the term “voodoo economics.” During one campaign he declared (*) 
 “read my lips: no new 
taxes,” and as president he joined a coalition against the invasion of Kuwait. For 10 points, name this U.S. 
president during the First Gulf War, the predecessor of Bill Clinton. 
ANSWER: George  erbert Walker  
H Bush 
015-11-31-02104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
This ruler’s foreign minister, the Polish-born Count Walewski, was rumored to be this ruler’s 
illegitimate cousin. This man appointed Baron Haussman to redesign his capital city, creating many 
public parks and wide avenues. This ruler started a war with (+)  Russia in part because he wanted to 
be the protector of Christian pilgrims to the Holy Land. Apart from sparking the Crimean War, this 
ruler was forced to abdicate after he was captured at the Battle of (*) 
 Sedan, which he lost to 
Bismarck’s German Confederation, marking the end of his “Second Empire”. For 10 points, name this 
nephew of Napoleon Bonaparte, who ruled France from 1848 to 1871. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon III 
 [or  
Louis-Napoleon 
 Bonaparte; prompt on  
Napoleon 
; do not accept or prompt 
on  
Napoleon Bonaparte 
] 
021-11-31-02105 
6.  
Supreme Court Justice John McLean was an early candidate in this election before losing ground 
in his own party to Tom Corwin. During this election, the Barnburners left the Democratic Party and 
joined with the Liberty Party to create the Free Soil Party, which nominated (+)  Martin Van Buren. 
Henry Clay's \"Lexington Address\" backfired, instead prompting Southern Whigs to support this 
election' eventual winner. The Democrats nominated a proponent of \"squatter sovereignty,\" Lewis 
(*) 
 Cass, after James Polk declined to run for a second term. For 10 points, name this election won by 
Zachary Taylor. 
ANSWER: Presidential Election of  
1848 
003-11-31-02106 
7.  
One early leader of this empire defeated Tushratta, freeing it from Mitanni control. Greek legends 
spoke of a semi-historical queen of this empire named (+)  Semiramis. One of its greatest early kings 
was Tiglath-pileser I. At its heights in the seventh century BC, this kingdom was led by a king who 
Byron claimed “came down like a wolf on the fold.” In addition to Sennacherib, it was led by a man 
who established a massive (*) 
 library in its capital of Ninevah. For 10 points, Ashurbanipal was a leader 
of what Mesopotamian descendant of the Akkadian empire? 
ANSWER:  
Assyria 
n Empire 
015-11-31-02107 
8.  
This man was responsible for the creation of the lion-capital memorial at Sarnath, and he 
established hospitals in Hindustan. This man's son Mihinda and Princess (+)  Sanghamittha were sent 
as a missionaries to Sri Lanka, and he was the successor to Bindusara. This man followed a policy 
called \"conquest by dharma\" by transmitting his statements through pillar edicts, and his namesake 
(*) 
 wheel can be found on the modern flag of India. For 10 points, name this last major Mauryan emperor 
of India who converted to Buddhism after his bloody conquest of Kalinga. 
ANSWER:  
Ashoka 
 [or  
Asoka 
] 
030-11-31-02108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 2     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
