VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 4 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A complex of exhibits is found on this city's Museum Island; the most famous of those museums houses 
a reconstruction of the Pergamum Altar. A television tower with a stainless steel dome, known as the 
Fernsehturm, stands near a public square in this city known as Alexanderplatz. The river Spree flows 
through this city, home to a quadriga chariot that sits atop a massive triumphal arch. For 10 points, name 
this European capital, home to the Brandenburg Gate. 
ANSWER:  
Berlin 
020-13-93-04101 
2. The derivative of this quantity with respect to time gives the current. Flux through a Gaussian surface 
can be found by totalling the amount of this quantity it encloses. A particle moving orthogonal to a 
magnetic field will only be affected if it has a non-zero value for this quantity. Pith balls are often used to 
demonstrate attraction or repulsion due to this quantity.For 10 points, identify this quantity measured in 
Coulombs, which comes in positive and negative varieties. 
ANSWER: electric  
charge 
233-13-93-04102 
3. A nineteenth-century queen of this country converted to Bahai. Prior to World War II, this country was 
home to the Legion of Archangel Michael, which became this country's Iron Guard. A leader of this 
country fell after attempting to evict Lazlo Tokes and issued the July Theses. For 10 points, name this 
eastern European country that was governed by Nicolas Ceausescu from Budaphest. 
ANSWER:  
Romania 
149-13-93-04103 
4. For pure substance, the natural log of this quantity at T-sub-two over it at T-sub-one is related to 
enthalpy of vaporization over gas constant times quantity one over T-sub-one minus one over T-sub-two by 
the Clausius-Clapeyron equation. For an ideal mixture, this quantity is the sum of it for the individual 
components multiplied by their mole fraction, according to Raoult's law. This quantity equals the 
atmospheric pressure at the boiling point. For 10 points, identify this pressure exerted by a substance in a 
gas phase above a liquid or solid phase. 
ANSWER: equilibrium  
vapor pressure 
066-13-93-04104 
5. This speech was called a “powerful demagogic” speech by the head of COINTELPRO. The speaker of 
this speech ends by saying that he hopes everyone can sing “Free at last! Free at last!” The speaker hopes 
that his children will live in a nation “where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the 
content of their character.” For 10 points, name this August 1963 speech delivered by Martin Luther King 
Jr. during the March on Washington. 
ANSWER: \" 
I Have a Dream 
\" 
052-13-93-04105 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  1 of 9 
6. This character is charged with treason shortly after refusing to conquer Blefuscu. When last seen, he is 
horrified by his family and ends up spending much time in stables after living among super-intelligent 
horses and the brutish “Yahoos.” This man visits such lands as Brobdingnag and Lilliput, which consist of 
giants and very short people , respectively. For 10 points, name this Jonathan Swift created character, a 
ship’s doctor who ends up traveling through many bizarre lands. 
ANSWER: Lemuel  
Gulliver 
 [or  
Lemuel 
] 
052-13-93-04106 
7. If a function is in an Lp space, then this operation on the p-th power of its absolute value gives a 
non-infinite result. The Newton-Cotes formula gives a method for performing this operation numerically. 
Fubini's theorem allows one to reverse the order of a double one. Riemann sums provide one method of 
deriving it. For 10 points, name this mathematical operation that is the antiderivative according to the 
fundamental theorem of calculus and which also gives the area under curves. 
ANSWER: Riemannian  
integral 
127-13-93-04107 
8. This character is instructed about “crabs” and “feathers” while rowing a boat with an egg-selling sheep. 
In another work, she serves as a witness in a trial in which the Knave of Hearts is accused of stealing some 
tarts. This protagonist of  
Through the Looking Glass 
 is also featured in another novel in which she has a tea 
party with the March Hare and meets the Cheshire Cat and the White Rabbit. For 10 points, name this 
Lewis Carroll character who has adventures in Wonderland. 
ANSWER:  
Alice 
015-13-93-04108 
9. One of this two-lobed organ's functions is the conversion of excess glucose into glycogen for energy 
storage. It produces cholesterol, proteins and bile in addition to its function regulating blood clotting. 
Fibrosis of this organ, usually due to excessive alcohol consumption, is called cirrhosis. It converts 
ammonia into urea, utilizing blood it obtains from the hepatic artery. For 10 points, name this organ 
capable of regenerating itself. 
ANSWER:  
liver 
147-13-93-04109 
10. This man served as music director of the St. Thomas Choir in Leipzig for twenty-seven years until his 
death. The piece \"Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring\" was excerpted from one of the over 200 cantatas that he 
composed. He wrote a book of preludes and fugues in all 24 major and minor keys, and composed a set of 
six Baroque concertos as a job application for a German margrave. For 10 points, name this German 
composer of  
The Well-Tempered Clavier 
 and the  
Brandenburg Concertos, 
 the first of the three \"B\"s. 
ANSWER:  
J. S. Bach 
 [or  
Johann Sebastian Bach 
; prompt on  
Bach 
; prompt on  
J. Bach 
; prompt on  
Johann Bach 
] 
130-13-93-04110 
11. This location is home to the Very Large Telescope. Animals that survive here include Darwin’s 
leaf-eared mouse and some Humboldt Penguins. This desert has a region south of Antofagasta which 
resembles Martian soil. It was once home to the world’s largest supply of sodium nitrate, but now features 
numerous abandoned “saltpeter” mining towns. This desert typically gets about fifteen millimeters of rain a 
year. For 10 points, name this South American desert, the driest in the world. 
ANSWER:  
Atacama 
 Desert [prompt on  
Chile 
] 
052-13-93-04111 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  2 of 9 
12. Instead of copper, this element is used for overhead power lines due to its lower density. All feldspars 
contain an atom of this element bonded to a silicate. An atom of this element is found in cryolite, which is 
melted with this element's oxide in the Hall-Heroult process. Like boron, this element usually forms plus 
three ions, and its principal ore is bauxite. For 10 points, identify this light metal with atomic number 
thirteen and symbol Al. 
ANSWER:  
aluminum 
 [or  
aluminium 
; or   until it is read] 
Al 
234-13-93-04112 
13. In one appearance, it is revealed that this character's briefcase is filled with donuts and ice cream. In 
another episode, this character feeds his friend advice on a walkie-talkie to help him pass his boat-driving 
test, though Mrs. Puff still fails him. This character's dwelling under a rock is separated from his friend's 
pineapple by their neighbor Squidward. For 10 points, identify this starfish, the best friend of Spongebob 
Squarepants. 
ANSWER:  
Patrick 
 Star 
233-13-93-04113 
14. The third of this man's rules states the sharing of edges and particularly faces by two anion polyhedra 
(pol-ee-HEE-druh) decreases the stability of an ionic structure. This man put forth his law for tetravalence 
bonding in 1932, along with a paper explaining the hybridization of electrons in bonding. This man used 
X-ray diffraction to determine the structure of a crystal. For 10 points, name this man with five laws that 
describe the structure of a crystal along with introducing the concept of electronegativity. 
ANSWER: Linus  
Pauling 
135-13-93-04114 
15. These structures have 5.8S, 28S, and 18S subunits which combine to form 40S and 60S small and large 
subunits. Aminoacyl tRNA synthetase binds to these organelles’ A sites; then, this organelle promotes the 
formation of a peptide bond. Mitochondria and chloroplasts have their own versions of these structures. 
The AUG start codon in mRNA is unveiled by these structures at the start of translation. They are found on 
the rough ER. For 10 points, name these organelles where proteins are synthesized. 
ANSWER:  
ribosome 
s 
190-13-93-04115 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 4 
Directed Round 
1A.  Name the President during the Spanish American War who was assassinated by Leon Czolgosz 
(CHOLE-gosh). 
ANSWER: William  
McKinley 
1B.  What Irish polymath invented quaternions and lends his name to a physical quantity equalling the sum 
of kinetic and potential energies? 
ANSWER: William Rowan  
Hamilton 
2A.  What beast did Bellerophon kill for King Iobates, with the help of Pegasus and a leaden spear? 
ANSWER:  
Chimera 
2B.  Which Thomas Hardy novel’s title character has her marriage to Angle Clare disrupted because of her 
rape at the hands of Alec? 
ANSWER:  
Tess 
 of the d’Urbervilles [or  
Tess 
 Durbeyfield; or Tess  
d’Urbervilles 
] 
3A.  What data structure with \"binary\" and \"red-black\" forms consists of nodes linked to child nodes? 
ANSWER:  
tree 
s 
3B.  Besides Sinhala, what is the official language of Sri Lanka, a tongue that also partly names a Sri 
Lankan separatist group? 
ANSWER:  
Tamil 
4A.  What river serves as the border between Cambridge and Boston before emptying into the Atlantic 
Ocean? 
ANSWER:  
Charles 
 River 
4B.  What French artist painted a group of concubines in  
The Women of Algiers 
 and a bare-chested 
personification of the title concept in his  
Liberty Leading the People 
? 
ANSWER: Eugene  
Delacroix 
 [or Ferdinand Victor Eugene  
Delacroix 
] 
5A.  This is 20-second calculation question. Find all values between 0 and 360 degrees, inclusive, for 
which cosine squared theta equals sine squared theta. 
ANSWER:  
45, 135, 225, 315 
 degrees [do not accept partial answers] 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the units digit of 7 to the 24000th power? 
ANSWER:  
1 
6A.  What ancient Greek pioneered medical technique and names a document that includes the line \"I will 
prevent disease whenever I can.\" 
ANSWER:  
Hippocrates 
 of Kos 
6B.  In one of E. E. Cummings’s most popular poems, what character “lived in a pretty how town”? 
ANSWER:  
anyone 
7A.  A lulav and an etrog are shaken, and a booth is built, on what Jewish holiday sometimes called the 
Feast of Tabernacles? 
ANSWER:  
Sukkot 
7B.  What 17-year-old's shooting death after buying some Skittles led to the Million Hoodie March and the 
trial of George Zimmerman? 
ANSWER: Trayvon  
Martin 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  4 of 9 
8A.  Which French short story writer wrote about the prostitute Elizabeth Rousset in  
Ball of Fat? 
ANSWER: Henri Rene Albert Guy de  
Maupassant 
8B.  In Archie comics, teenager Archie Andrews is torn between loving the blonde Betty and what rich, 
brunette girl? 
ANSWER:  
Veronica 
 [prompt on  
Lodge 
] 
9A.  What name is given to a line or set of lines that is repeated periodically throughout a poem? 
ANSWER:  
refrain 
9B.  Despite being outnumbered, the English under Henry V won what 1415 battle in which the longbow 
and a muddy battlefield helped defeat the French? 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Agincourt 
10A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A basketball player makes a second free throw 80% of the 
time after making the first, but only 50% of the time if he misses the first. If he makes his first free throw 
70% of the time, what is the expected number of free throws he makes in two shots? 
ANSWER:  
1.41 
10B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The median of a set of three numbers is three larger than the 
mean. 6 is the unique mode of the set. What is the smallest number in the set? 
ANSWER:  
-3 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 4 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This poet wrote a collection describing many mundane objects such as artichokes and clothing. That 
work was titled  
Elemental Odes 
. One poem in one of this man’s collections begins with the line “Tonight I 
can write the saddest lines,” while he evokes the history of Latin America in  
Canto General 
. For 10 points, 
identify this Chilean poet of  
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair 
. 
ANSWER: Pablo  
Neruda 
 [or Neftali Ricardo  
Reyes 
 Basoalto] 
140-13-93-04117 
2. This element links three to five benzene rings in Salvarsan, a drug discovered by Paul Ehrlich that was 
the first effective treatment for syphilis. This element is used in a III-V semiconductor with gallium. 
Groundwater contamination of this element is a serious problem in Bangladesh. In 2010, NASA scientists 
incorrectly announced the discovery of a bacteria that incorporated this element into its DNA instead of the 
element above it on the periodic table, phosphorus. For 10 points, identify this poisonous element with 
symbol As. 
ANSWER:  
arsenic 
 [or  
As 
 until it is read] 
234-13-93-04118 
3. As of September 2013, Matt McCaslin is the highest-ranked American player of this activity. Joseph and 
Robert Taylor's company built many of the modern innovations used in this activity. In its early stages, this 
game was played on New York City rooftops. Several decades later, the Lomma brothers introduced trick 
hazards to this activity, such as spinning windmill blades that the player has to time to get past. For 10 
points, name this eighteen-hole activity played on carpet or astroturf. 
ANSWER:  
mini-golf 
 [or  
miniature golf 
; or  
crazy golf 
; or  
putt-putt 
] 
020-13-93-04119 
4. The narrator of one of this man’s novels was born on the night that the Wilhelm Gusloff sank and 
discovers that his son is a hero to neo-nazis for shooting Wolfgang Stremplin. Another novel by this man 
follows Mahlke as he salvages items from a minesweeper. In addition to  
Crabwalk 
 and  
 Cat and Mouse 
, 
this man wrote about Oskar Matzerath, whose cry can be used as a weapon in another work. For 10 points 
name this author of  
The Tin Drum 
, which is part of his  
Danzig Trilogy 
. 
ANSWER: Gunter  
Grass 
123-13-93-04120 
5. A politician from this country replied \"I'm not a historian, I'm a politician\" during an interview in New 
York. Its most recent election saw Saeed Jalili place third behind a former mayor of its capital city, 
Mohammed Ghalibaf. During a 2012 UN conference, a red line drawn on a picture of a bomb was used by 
Benjamin Netanyahu to show his position on this country’s nuclear program. For 10 points, name this 
country led by Hassan Rouhani, the successor to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 
ANSWER:  
Iran 
232-13-93-04121 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  6 of 9 
6. A method used for finding this location involves using multiple plumb lines and finding the point of 
intersection. The Fosbury Flop makes use of this location in high jumping by keeping it below the height of 
the bar. An object supported at this location will have no net torque acting on it. This point is located at the 
geometrical center of a homogeneous, symmetrical body. For 10 points, name this physical location that 
can be located on small objects by using a finger to find where they balance. 
ANSWER:  
center of mass 
 [or  
center of gravity 
] 
023-13-93-04122 
7. An officer of this state's military had his head thrown into the camp of his older brother after his defeat at 
Metaurus. This city was home to Hamilcar, a patriarch whose progeny included Mago and Hasdrubal 
Barca. Cato the Censor repeatedly advocated for the destruction of this city. This civilization's downfall 
was ensured when Scipio Africanus won the Battle of Zama against its general Hannibal. For 10 points, 
identify this Phoenician city that fought the Punic Wars against Rome. 
ANSWER:  
Carthage 
 [or  
Carthago 
; or  
Kart-hadasht 
] 
195-13-93-04123 
8. Upon the donation of this opera's libretto to the Parma Museum, it was discovered that there was a 
\"missing act\" the composer hadn't used. At the beginning of this opera, the main characters burn a 
manuscript to keep warm. The most famous aria from this opera, \"Quando me'n vo',\" is a waltz sung by 
Musetta to make Marcello jealous. At the end of this opera, tuberculosis claims the life of Mimi, who dies 
in Rodolfo's arms. For 10 points, name this Puccini opera set in the Latin Quarter of Paris. 
ANSWER:  
La  boheme 
 [or  
The  Bohemians 
] 
224-13-93-04124 
9. A character is this novel is predicted to die when he sees two strange hearses. An old schoolmaster and 
“sub-sub-librarian” supposedly compiled the section “Etymology and Extracts,” which give translations of 
and quotations about the title animal. A man nails a gold piece to a beam and promises it to the first man to 
see that animal will receive the coin. The narrator is the only survivor of the  
Pequod, 
 and opens this novel 
with “Call me Ishmael.” For 10 points, name this Herman Melville novel about Ahab's search for the white 
whale. 
ANSWER:  
Moby Dick,  or, the White Whale 
121-13-93-04125 
10. This painter's  
Still Life with Ginger Pot I 
 came from his brief flirtation with Cubism. He painted bits of 
colored paper and plastic stuck to a lozenge-shape in an unfinished \"victory\" version of his most famous 
artwork. Across three block in another of his paintings, grey dots appear and disappear via an optical 
illusion. The city grid of Manhattan and a kind of dance music influenced his most famous painting. For 10 
points, name this Dutch-born painter of  
Broadway Boogie-Woogie 
. 
ANSWER: Pieter (Piet) Cornelis  
Mondrian 
 [or Mondriaan; not that the pronunciation is different or 
anything] 
020-13-93-04126 
11. A participant in this event, George Rappleyea, unsuccessfully invited H.G. Wells to participate in it. It 
involved an ACLU planned violation of the Butler Act. During it, a witness was asked where Cain got his 
wife and if Eve was created from Adam’s rib. The prosecutor in this case, William Jennings Bryan, was 
humiliated by attorney Clarence Darrow. For 10 points, name this 1925 court case in which a Tennessee 
teacher was put on trial for teaching evolution. 
ANSWER:  
Scopes 
 trial [or Scopes  
monkey 
 trial; or  
The State of Tennessee v. John Thomas  Scopes 
] 
052-13-93-04127 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  7 of 9 
12. According to the equation of exchange, the product of this quantity and the velocity is equal to average 
price times average quantity purchased. M2 is the most common measurement of this quantity used in 
comparative economics. Irving Fisher showed that the rate of change of this quantity is roughly equal to the 
rate of change of prices. That’s why the Federal Reserve would cut this value to fight inflation. For 10 
points, name this quantity, the amount of currency in circulation. 
ANSWER:  
money supply 
 [or   until it is read; or  
M M2 
 until it is read; or  
money stock 
; prompt on  
money 
] 
190-13-93-04128 
13. Meridional flow occurs in this structure and generates more vorticity than zonal flow. The lapse rate 
changes from positive to negative at the top of this region, also known as the temperature inversion. The 
lower boundary of the stratosphere is this layer's namesake \"pause.\" 80% of the atmosphere's mass is in this 
turbulent layer, where most weather phenomena occur. For 10 points, identify this lowest layer of the 
atmosphere. 
ANSWER:  
troposphere 
228-13-93-04129 
14. In July of this year, an outbreak of Legionnaires’ disease hit Philadelphia, killing over twenty people. 
During this year, a governor gave an interview to  
Playboy 
 magazine, where he admitted lusting in his heart 
for women. In Republican primaries in this year, the incumbent president defeated Ronald Reagan to earn 
the G.O.P. nomination. During the presidential election of this year, Jimmy Carter defeated Gerald Ford. 
For 10 points, name this year, the United States’ bicentennial year. 
ANSWER: 19 
76 
052-13-93-04130 
15. Anti-rabbit is an example of the \"secondary\" type of these proteins, which can bond to the fragment 
crystallization region with high specificity. ELISA makes use of the strong affinity these proteins have for 
their substrates, or epitopes. Secreted by plasma cells, these proteins consist of two heavy chains and two 
light chains in a Y shape, which determines their isotype. For 10 points, name these proteins which bind to 
antigens in the immune system. 
ANSWER:  
antibodies 
 [or  
immunoglobulin 
s] 
190-13-93-04131 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 4 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. In one story, this god ate so much that when he was scared by a snake his stomach burst open. This god 
told his parents they were his world after being challenged by his brother to a race around the world. He 
gained his most notable feature after trying to prevent his father from seeing his mother in the bath. This 
son of Parvati and Shiva is known as the Remover of Obstacles and rides on a rat. For 10 points, name this 
god from Hinduism who had the head of an elephant. 
ANSWER:  
Ganesh 
a 
235-13-93-04132 
2. Both Robert R. and Gaetan Dugas are considered index cases for this disease. Randy Shilts wrote a 
history of it called  
And the Band Played On 
. Its cause was discovered independently by Robert Gallo and 
Luc Montagnier. Early victims included Rock Hudson, Freddie Mercury, and about ninety percent of 
hemophiliacs in the early 1980s due to blood transfusions. For 10 points, name this disease originally called 
Gay-Related Immune Deficiency which is now known to be caused by the HIV virus. 
ANSWER:  
AIDS 
 epidemic [or  
HIV 
 epidemic before mention] 
048-13-93-04133 
3. This author wrote a book whose title character collects fingerprints and uncovers a mystery involving a 
servant named Chambers and Tom Driscoll being switched at birth. In another of this man’s novels, a 
character uses the Great Seal of England to crack nuts. He wrote a novel in which peasant boy Tom Canty 
switches places with a son of King Henry VIII. For 10 points, name this author of  
Pudd’nhead Wilson 
 and  
The Prince and the Pauper 
. 
ANSWER: Mark  
Twain 
 [or Samuel Langhorne  
Clemens 
] 
052-13-93-04134 
4. This man wrote a story in which the protagonist tells a story to Sybil Carpenter while wading in the 
ocean. That story features title creatures which gorge themselves on fruit and get too fat to escape feeding 
holes. This author wrote about Seymour Glass' suicide in \"A Perfect Day for Bananafish.\" He created a 
youthful character expelled from Pencey Prep who disdains \"phonies.\" For 10 points, name this reclusive 
author of the  
Nine Stories 
, who created Holden Caulfield in  
Catcher in the Rye. 
ANSWER: Jerome David \"J.D.\"  
Salinger 
052-13-93-04135 
5. The structure of molecule is probed using a nuclear magnetic form of this concept. Galileo was one of 
the first scientists to describe this phenomenon, in experiments with pendulums. The acoustical version of it 
is responsible for the harmonics of musical instruments and the ability to shatter glass with sound. For 10 
points, name the tendency of systems to oscillate at greater amplitude at particular frequencies, responsible 
for the Tacoma Narrows Bridge disaster. 
ANSWER: 
resonance 
147-13-93-04136 
The Ostwald process turns ammonia into what acid, mixed with hydrochloric acid in aqua regia? 
ANSWER:  
nitric 
 acid 
This is a calculation question. What is the reference angle, in degrees, of an angle measuring 7 pi over 6 
radians? 
ANSWER:  
pi over 6 
 radians [or  
30 degrees 
] 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     4     Page  9 of 9 
