National History Bowl 11 
Round 16 
First Quarter 
1. This man wrote, “you better go back to beautiful Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Georgia, Tennessee” in “Do 
Re Mi,” which appears on his Depression-themed album  
Dust Bowl Ballads 
. Another of his songs describes 
“the sparkling sands of her diamond deserts” and the “redwood forest, to the gulf stream waters.” For 10 
points, name this father of Arlo, a folk singer who wrote “This Land is Your Land.” 
ANSWER: Woody  
Guthrie 
015-11-31-16101 
2. One resistance movement to this man's government planned to assassinate this man's advisor Albert 
Hagelin. This leader worked in a humanitarian role for the League of Nations with Fridtjof Nansen in the 
interwar period. During World War II, he worked as the Minister-President under Josef Terboven before 
being executed. For 10 points, name this man who led collaboration between Nazi Germany and Norway. 
ANSWER: Vidkun  
Quisling 
023-11-31-16102 
3. A successful attempt to end it was helped by the work of the merchant Kuzma Minin. This period also 
saw one camp established at Tushino, which opposed Vasily Shuysky. During this event, three men 
claimed to be the deceased Dmitry, and Boris Godunov came to power. For 10 points, name this period of 
Russian history between the end of the Rurik dynasty and the establishment of the Romanov line under 
Michael. 
ANSWER:  
Time of Troubles 
 [or  
Smutnoye Vremya 
] 
023-11-31-16103 
4. Like China's Yangtze and another river in its own country, this river is home to a namesake species of 
dolphin,  
Platanista minor 
, with a long beak. It receives the five tributaries that define the Punjab and flows 
past Rawalpindi and Hyderabad. Seals depicting animals were representative of ancient cities on this river, 
such as Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro. For 10 points, identify this namesake of a “valley civilization” in the 
ancient subcontinent. 
ANSWER:  
Indus 
 River 
019-11-31-16104 
5. Pieces of literature pertaining to this study were collectively known as  
Hermetica 
, in reference to the 
supposed author, Hermes Trismegistus. Practitioners of this science might mix nitric acid, known as aqua 
fortis, with hydrochloric acid to make aqua regia. For 10 points, name this science of medieval Europe that 
often focused on the goal of turning various metals into gold and creating the philosopher's stone. 
ANSWER:  
alchemy 
023-11-31-16105 
6. This work contains a story about Greeks in the city of Abdera catching a fever at the Tragedy of 
Andromeda in its section about Melancholy. Another section of this work describes \"Phantasmes that 
appear in the air.\" It contains a section describing the Kingdom of Darkness, and claims that life in the 
natural state of man is \"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.\" For 10 points, name this work by Thomas 
Hobbes. 
ANSWER:  
Leviathan 
095-11-31-16106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. Late in this war, \"Infiltration Tactics\" were invented by General Ludendorf, which led to this war's last 
offensive, the unsuccessful \"Spring Offensive\" that failed to capture Paris. This war included three major 
battles at Ypres. It was sparked by an incident in Sarajevo and ended with a treaty signed in a French 
palace, which blamed this war on Germany. For 10 points, name this war that began with the shooting of 
Archduke Franz Ferdinand. 
ANSWER:  
World War I 
 [prompt on  
Great War 
] 
021-11-31-16107 
8. The first day of this event was planned with help from Ralph Johns, and the tactic for this event was 
suggested by Joseph McNeil. It started in the establishment owned by Curly Harris. Six days after this 
protest started, fourteen hundred students came to take part. For 10 points, name this protest organized by 
four North Carolina A&T University students at a local Woolworth’s in 1960 to protest segregated lunch 
counters. 
ANSWER:  
Greensboro sit-in 
s 
023-11-31-16108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 16 
Second Quarter 
1.  
John Adams offered to make this man special emissary to France, but he declined, just as he 
declined George Washington’s offer to make him Secretary of State. He argued in favor of the Two 
Penny Act and against James Maury in the Parson’s Cause. He agitated for the passage of the 
Virginia Resolves in response to the Stamp Act, supposedly giving a speech in which he said, (*) 
 “If 
this be treason, make the most of it.” This anti-Federalist was the first post-independence Governor of 
Virginia. For 10 points, name this politician who proclaimed, “Give me Liberty, or give me Death.” 
ANSWER: Patrick  
Henry 
BONUS: Patrick Henry declined an offer by Washington to serve in what post, later filled by such men as 
James Baker and Warren Christopher? 
ANSWER:  
Secretary of State 
024-11-31-16101 
2.  
The first major battle in this war was the Battle of Talana Hill, and one side in this war achieved a 
pyrrhic victory at the Battle of Modder River under the command of Lord Methuen. One side in this 
war besieged the garrison of (*) 
 Ladysmith. Another siege in this battle was lifted thanks to the actions of 
Robert Baden-Powell and took place at Mafeking. Precipitating factors in this war included the Jameson 
Raid and ultimatums sent by Joseph Chamberlain and Paul Kruger. For 10 points, name this 
turn-of-the-century war which took place in South Africa. 
ANSWER: Second Anglo- 
Boer 
 War 
BONUS: The Boer was is also known as the “Anglo-Boereoorlog” in what language which is now one of 
the official language of South Africa? 
ANSWER:  
Afrikaans 
024-11-31-16102 
3.  
This American proposed using units of length based on pendulums in his  Plan for establishing 
uniformity in the Coinage, Weights, and Measures of the United States . In a letter about bridge 
building, this man was the first to use the English word catenary. This man was the first to use the 
word  Megalonyx  to describe a certain genus of ground sloth. He created a namesake wheel cipher 
and many of his scientific ideas can be found in his (*) 
Notes on the State of Virginia  
. During this man's 
presidency, Zebulon Pike explored part of a new addition to the United States. For 10 points, name this 
man during whose presidency the Lewis and Clark Expedition took place. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Jefferson 
BONUS: It is believed that Jefferson had a relationship and six children with this slave and half-sister of 
Jefferson’s wife. 
ANSWER: Sarah “Sally”  
Hemmings 
001-11-31-16103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
The New Laws attempted to correct some of the worst abuses of this system, while the earlier Laws 
of Burgos had attempted to implement standards for working conditions and education. Antonio de 
Montesino was the first to speak out against this system, and his cause was later taken up by (*) 
Bartolome de las Casas. This system was institutionalized by Nicolas of Oviedo after Christopher 
Columbus first used it to placate a rebellion on Hispaniola. It was ultimately replaced by the hacienda 
system. For 10 points, name this feudal system instituted in early Spanish Latin American colonies. 
ANSWER:  
encomienda 
 system [prompt on  
repartimiento 
] 
BONUS: Christopher Columbus was a navigator native to what independent republic state in northwestern 
Italy? 
ANSWER:  
Genoa 
003-11-31-16104 
5.  
In 1881, journalists like Edwin L. Godkin and George William Curtis created a national league 
devoted to passing this type of legislation. A 1978 act of this type created new agencies like the MSPB 
and the OPM. An early example of this type of legislation was applied to the New York Customs 
House during the Hayes administration. The most famous legislation of this type was sponsored by a 
former running mate of George McClellan from Ohio and originally had classifications for 10 
percent of people. That bill of this type was passed despite oppositions from the Stalwarts and 
presidential (*) 
 assassin Charles Guiteau. For 10 points, name this type of legislation that sought to end the 
spoils system, examples of which included the 1883 Pendleton Act. 
ANSWER:  
Civil Service 
 Reform [accept equivalents mentioning  
Civil Service 
] 
BONUS: Charles Guiteau was once a member of what utopian religious commune founded in New York 
by John Humphrey Noyes and now known for their silverware? 
ANSWER:  
Oneida 
 Community 
094-11-31-16105 
6.  
During this man's rule, the  San Felipe  wrecked in his country, and the resulting incident lead to 
the crucifixion of the \"26 martyrs\". He won the battle of Yamazaki where the rebellious Akechi 
Mitsuhide was defeated. He and his nephew were the only non-Fujiwaras to hold the title Kampaku. 
He ordered the death of his advisor Sen no Rikyu and he ordered a noted (*) 
 sword hunt. He invaded 
Korea and started construction on Osaka Castle. His rise to power began while he was a solider of Oda 
Nobunaga. For 10 points, name this unifier of Japan and predecessor of Tokugawa Ieyasu. 
ANSWER: Toyotomi  
Hideyoshi 
BONUS: The Tokugawa shogunate was solidified at this decisive Japanese battle which occurred two years 
after Hideyoshi’s death. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Sekigahara 
001-11-31-16106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
This speech declares that the “solitary inventor … has been overshadowed by a task force of 
scientists in laboratories and testing fields”. The speaker goes on to say that “we must learn how to 
compose differences … with intellect and decent purpose”. Earlier, the speaker describes how the 
former system of “American makers of plowshares, with time … [would] make swords as well” was no 
longer was sufficient. A still frame from a broadcast of this speech appears on the poster of a 2005 
Eugene Jarecki documentary that expounded on its central thesis. That film was titled  Why We Fight . 
The speaker laments that the net income of all US corporations is less than a particular section of the 
national (*) 
 budget. Delivered on January 17, 1961, for 10 points, name this speech which warned against 
the growing military-industrial complex, the last one given in office by a president succeeded by John F. 
Kennedy. 
ANSWER: Dwight David  
Eisenhower’s Farewell Address 
 to the Nation 
BONUS: Eisenhower was the first president limited to two terms of office by this Constitutional 
Amendment. 
ANSWER:  
Twenty-Second 
 Amendment 
094-11-31-16107 
8.  
One important figure in this religion married Mary Maxwell, who transcribed sayings by that 
man. This religion features a nineteen-month calendar whose months have names such as \"Power\" 
and \"Questions,\" while one plan instituted by this religion was the Ten Year World Crusade. One 
symbol of this religion is the nine-pointed star, and this religion's primary text is the (*) 
Book of 
Certitude. 
 Its governing body meets at the Universal House of Justice in Haifa, Israel. For 10 points, name 
this religion whose leaders have included Shogi Effendi its founder, Baha'u'llah. 
ANSWER:  
Baha'i 
 Faith [or  
Baha'ism 
] 
BONUS: Baha’i followers revere this figure as a messenger. This carpenter’s son is known in Islam as 
“Isa.” 
ANSWER:  
Jesus 
 Christ of Nazareth 
081-11-31-16108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 16 
Third Quarter 
EUROPEAN TRAVELERS, WELCOME AND UNWELCOME 
Name the European who… 
A. Led the first European expedition around the Cape of Good Hope. 
ANSWER: Bartolomeu  
Dias 
B. Followed up Dias’ original voyage, erected a marble pillar at Calicut, and established sea routes to 
India. 
ANSWER: Vasco  
da Gama 
C. Was a Jesuit and became the first Christian missionary to Japan. 
ANSWER: Francis  
Xavier 
D. Was a legendary Christian ruler who supposedly lived in the East and was sought after by missionaries. 
ANSWER:  
Prester John 
E. Was a Jesuit missionary who lived for thirty years in China and introduced Christianity to the Chinese 
Empire. 
ANSWER: Matteo  
Ricci 
 [or  
Limadou 
; or  
Li-ma-tou 
] 
F. Commanded the  
Red Dragon 
 on the first trading expedition of the British East India Company. 
ANSWER: James  
Lancaster 
G. Was the fourth governor-general of the Dutch East Indies who founded Batavia and solidified Dutch 
trading interests in the Indies. 
ANSWER: Jan Pieterszoon  
Coen 
H. Was a Christian missionary who was the first European traveler in the Mongol Empire and wrote the 
“Book of the Tartars.” 
ANSWER: Giovanni Da Pian Del  
Carpini 
030-11-31-1610-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THIS EARTH, THIS REALM, THIS ENGLAND 
Name the British political institution that… 
A. Was a Parliament summoned by Charles I in 1640 and named due to the duration of its meeting. 
ANSWER:  
Long 
 Parliament 
B. Was what remained of Parliament in December 1648 after Pride’s Purge. 
ANSWER:  
Rump 
 Parliament 
C. Is the name for the department of British government that receives and disperses revenue that was 
created by Henry I. 
ANSWER:  
Exchequer 
D. Was the name of the English government from 1653 to 1659 under the leadership of Oliver Cromwell. 
ANSWER:  
Protectorate 
E. Was named after the decoration of its ceiling and was a court used by Henry VIII to bypass the 
traditional justice system. 
ANSWER: Court of  
Star Chamber 
F. Was the name given to a supposedly secret organization in England in 1667 consisting of members such 
as Ashley Cooper and the Duke of Buckingham. 
ANSWER:  
Cabal 
G. Also known as the “Little” or “Nominated” Parliament, this Parliament was hand-picked by Oliver 
Cromwell and named after one of its members whose first name was “Praise-God.” 
ANSWER:  
Barebones 
 Parliament 
H. The name of the cavalry of the New Model Army that was supposedly given to Cromwell by Prince 
Rupert after the battle of Marston Moor. 
ANSWER:  
Ironsides 
030-11-31-1610-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE TANG DYNASTY 
Identify the following about the Tang Dynasty of China. 
A. The dynasty directly preceding the Tang. 
ANSWER:  
Sui 
 dynasty 
B. The trade route to Europe that prospered under the Tang. 
ANSWER:  
Silk Road 
C. The founder of the Tang Dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Gaozu 
 of Tang [or   Yuan] 
Li 
D. The rebellion against the Tang led in part by Shi Siming. 
ANSWER:  
An Lushan 
 Rebellion [or  
An Shi 
 Rebellion; or  
Tianbao 
 Rebellion] 
E. The Empress Regnant who interrupted the Tang dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Wu 
 Zetian or [or  
Wu 
 Zhao; or  
Tian 
 Hou; or  
Emperor Wu 
] 
F. The Tang Dynasty poet who wrote \"Broken Boat\" and \"Moonlit Night.\" 
ANSWER:  
Du Fu 
 [or  
Tu Fu 
] 
G. The founder of the Later Liang Dynasty, which overthrew the Tang and killed its last ruler. 
ANSWER:  
Taizu 
 of Later Liang [or  
Zhu 
 Quanzhong; or  
Zhu 
 Wen; or  
Zhu 
 Huang] 
H. The text put together under Wei Zheng as the official history of the Sui Dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Book of Sui 
088-11-31-1610-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 16 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
This man won an election in college after he and his friend Robert Atwater traveled the country in 
a Ford Pinto, seeking endorsements from different schools. In 1994, this man organized a political 
campaign that defeated incumbent Governor (+)  Ann Richards. Most recently, this man published 
an autobiography titled  Courage and Consequence  and co-founded the group American Crossroads, 
which raised money for candidates in the 2010 midterm elections. This man was nicknamed “The (*) 
Architect” by his most famous client, for whom this man may have used push polls or organized the Swift 
Boat Veterans for Truth against John Kerry. For 10 points, name this campaign strategist for George W. 
Bush. 
ANSWER: Karl  
Rove 
021-11-31-16101 
2.  
This event occurred despite the assurances of Mehdi Bazargan, who resigned along with his 
cabinet in the wake of this event. One action taken to try and end this event resulted in the 
resignation of Secretary of State Cyrus (+)  Vance. That action, Operation Eagle Claw, was thwarted 
by a haboob and resulted in the death of eight servicemen trying to end this crisis. This event started 
almost two weeks after the arrival in New York City for (*) 
 medical treatment of Mohammad Reza 
Shah. For 10 points, name this crisis that ended shortly after the inauguration of Ronald Reagan as 
president and saw fifty-two Americans from the U.S. Embassy held hostage for over a year in Tehran. 
ANSWER:  
Iran hostage 
 crisis 
023-11-31-16102 
3.  
This man defended the adoption of the constitution by writing papers under the pen name 
\"Fabius.\" The first college chartered in the United States is named for this man and is located in 
Carlisle, Pennsylvania. He wrote a pamphlet opposing the (+)  Stamp Act entitled  The Late 
Regulations Respecting the British Colonies on the Continent of America Considered . This man 
opposed the Declaration of Independence and sought to reconcile with Great Britain by writing most 
of the (*) 
 Olive Branch Petition, but he did serve in the Pennsylvania militia during the revolution. For 10 
points, name this writer of  
Letters from a Pennsylvania Farmer 
 who is known as the \"penman of the 
American Revolution.\" 
ANSWER: John  
Dickinson 
030-11-31-16103 
4.  
Members of this religion took part in the Azusa Street Revival. The first sermon delivered by radio 
was given by Aimee Semple McPherson, a member of this religion. The best-known preacher of this 
religion converted from this faith to (+)  Methodism in 1968 and later claimed that God threatened to 
take him \"home\" unless the congregation donated eight million dollars to build a hospital. One 
debate in this sect concerned whether xenolalia or (*) 
 glossolalia was the correct term for its 
practitioners' speaking in unlearned tongues, and it also places emphasis on faith healing. For 10 points, 
name this faith once proselytized by Oral Roberts, which takes its name from the date on which the 
Apostles received the Holy Spirit. 
ANSWER:  
Pentecostal 
ism [or Pentacostal  
Holiness 
 Church, International] 
003-11-31-16104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
This case went a step further in testing a law than a previous case based around Daniel Desdunes. 
The plaintiff in this case was detained by a private detective who had been hired by the local (+) 
Citizens' Committee. The majority opinion in this case cited cases from thirteen years earlier that 
had said no \"badge\" was being imposed, and the opinion was written by Henry Billings Brown. 
Albion Tourgée was hired as one side's legal counsel, which sought to test the (*) 
 Separate Car Act. For 
10 points, name this Supreme Court case in which the lone dissent by John Marshall Harlan stated that \"our 
Constitution is color blind\" in trying to overturn a Louisiana law that supported \"separate but equal\" 
segregation. 
ANSWER:  
Plessy  v. Ferguson 
 [or  
Ferguson  v. Plessy 
] 
023-11-31-16105 
6.  
One member of this family was killed by his cousin, Lorenzaccio, and that member of this family 
had earlier been forced to flee when the Piagnoni came to power. Another member of this family was 
responsible for sending out men like Johann (+)  Tetzel to sell indulgences while serving as Leo X. 
Two brothers in this family were attacked and one killed during a mass on Easter as part of the Pazzi 
conspiracy against this family. Members of this family included the founder of its dynasty, (*) 
 Cosimo 
the Elder, and the patron Lorenzo the Magnificent. For 10 points, name this Italian family that ruled for 
most of three centuries in Florence. 
ANSWER:  
Medici 
 family 
023-11-31-16106 
7.  
One legend tells that this king gave his ring to a poor beggar who was actually St. John the 
Evangelist. The replacement of his archbishop Robert of Jumièges by Stigand angered the pope. 
Through his marriage to (+)  Edith of Wessex, this monarch’s early reign was dominated by 
Godwine, the earl of Wessex. He warred with the historical Scottish king Macbeth. He ultimately 
provoked an invasion by promising the crown both to his advisor’s son (*) 
 Harold and to the Norman 
Duke William II. For 10 points, name this saintly king of England whose 1066 death led to the Battle of 
Hastings. 
ANSWER:  
Edward the Confessor 
 [prompt on  
Edward 
] 
015-11-31-16107 
8.  
One room in this building contains eight large historical paintings, one of which depicts a man in 
red handing a sword to an officer in blue and another of which shows a seated man anticipating the 
signatures of five prominent citizens. The mural-filled (+)  Brumidi Corridors are in this building, 
which also contains Constantine Brumidi's round ceiling mural called  The Apotheosis of Washington . 
John Trumbull's  Surrender of Burgoyne  and (*) 
Declaration of Independence 
 are also in this building. 
For 10 points, name this Washington, D.C. landmark that houses Statutory Hall, the House and Senate, and 
a large central rotunda. 
ANSWER: the  
U.S. Capitol 
 Building [prompt on  
Capitol 
; accept equivalents like  
United States Capitol 
or  
American Capitol 
] 
026-11-31-16108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 16     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
