VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 4 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This experiment partially contradicted the earlier Hoek (WHO-K) experiment, the results of which had 
been explained by a dragging coefficient. An early version of this experiment observed a shift of 0.018 
fringes. This experiment was modified with an asymmetrical apparatus in the Kennedy-Thorndike 
experiment. This experiment's apparatus was designed around a half-silvered mirror and perpendicular 
arms, and rested upon a pool of mercury which rotated. For 10 points, name this experiment conducted at 
Case Western that disproved the existence of the luminiferous aether. 
ANSWER:  
Michelson-Morley 
 experiment 
187-13-96-04101 
2. This author wrote a play about a Dutch national hero executed under Philip II,  
Egmont. 
 He wrote another 
play in which the master of Wagner seduces Gretchen, who is executed for drowning her baby. In a novel, 
this author created a youth who shoots himself over his unrequited love for Albert's wife, Lotte (LAH-tuh). 
This author of  
The Sorrows of Young Werther 
 wrote a two-part tragedy about a German scholar who makes 
a deal with the demon Mephistopheles. For 10 points, name this German poet of  
Faust 
. 
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von  
Goethe 
080-13-96-04102 
3. William Duer was invited to write some of these texts, but his work was found lacking. John Marshall 
supported using them for interpreting the laws in  
McCulloch v. Maryland. 
 George Clinton attacked these 
essays under the pen name \"Cato.\" The tenth of them argues against the belief that republics cannot be 
large, explaining that rival factions will counteract each other. For 10 points, name this series of essays 
defending the Constitution, written by John Jay, James Madison, and Alexander Hamilton. 
ANSWER: the  
Federalist 
 Papers 
121-13-96-04103 
4. In one of this man's plays, Roebuck Ramsden and Jack Tanner are made guardians of Ann Whitefield. In 
another play by this author of  
Man and Superman, 
 the arms manufacturer Andrew Undershaft makes a 
donation to the Salvation Army. A play by this man was adapted into the musical  
My Fair Lady 
 and centers 
on Henry Higgins attempting to teach the flower girl Eliza Doolittle to be a proper lady. For 10 points, 
name this Irish playwright of  
Major Barbara 
 and  
Pygmalion. 
ANSWER: George Bernard  
Shaw 
186-13-96-04104 
5. Channels that are selective for this substance have an aromatic-arginine filter and were discovered by 
Peter Agre. Bdelloid (DEH-lloyd) rotifers and tardigrades can enter a cryptobiotic state when this substance 
is unavailable. A molecule of this substance is released during the formation of a peptide bond, and this 
substance promotes the formation of lipid bilayers because the tails of phospholipids avoid it but the heads 
interact with it. For 10 points, name this substance which makes up 53% of the human body and has 
formula H2O. 
ANSWER:  
water 
 [or  
H2O 
 until it is read] 
048-13-96-04105 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  1 of 10 
6. This city's Old Deaf School Park contains a topiary rendering of the painting  
Sunday Afternoon on the 
Island of La Grand Jatte. 
 The Batelle Memorial Institute is headquartered in this city, whose historic 
monuments include the Camp Chase Confederate Cemetery and James Thurber's house. Found at the 
confluence of the Olentangy and Scioto (sai-OH-tuh) Rivers, it is the seat of Franklin County. It is the 
capital of a state whose other large cities include Dayton and Toledo. For 10 points, name this capital of 
Ohio. 
ANSWER:  
Columbus 
, Ohio 
080-13-96-04106 
7. The Tempo program is used to find and model these objects, which are sometimes surrounded by a 
plerion. An example of these objects in Virgo is surrounded by the first discovered extrasolar planets. A 
binary example of them was used to indirectly prove the existence of gravitational waves by Hulse and 
Taylor. Burnell and Hewish named the first discovered one LGM-1 and noted that its emissions were 
periodic. For 10 points, name these highly magnetized rotating stars that periodically emit radiation. 
ANSWER:  
pulsar 
s [or  
pulsating star 
s; prompt on neutron  
star 
s] 
048-13-96-04107 
8. Every entire function can be written as a power series with this property on the complex plane. A 
complete metric space is one where Cauchy sequences have this property. The Weierstrass M-test can show 
whether something has the uniform type of this property. Geometric series will always have this property if 
the common ratio has absolute value between zero and one, and the harmonic series does not possess it. For 
10 points, name this opposite of divergence. 
ANSWER:  
convergence 
 [or  
has a limit 
] 
121-13-96-04108 
9. When given the task of censoring letters, this character signs the names \"Washington Irving\" or \"Irving 
Washington.\" He has a brief affair with Nurse Duckett that ends soon after Kid Sampson's death. This 
character is stalked by \"Nately's whore\" near the end of the novel, who nearly stabs him to death. After 
witnessing the death of Snowden, he refuses to go on flying missions and decides to escape Pianosa at the 
end of the novel in which he appears. For 10 points, name the protagonist of Joseph Heller’s  
Catch-22. 
ANSWER: John  
Yossarian 
140-13-96-04109 
10. A crystalline target made of this element was used in the Davisson-Germer experiment. An oxide of 
this element is reacted with syngas in the first step of the Mond process, which is used to purify this metal. 
This element is used with cadmium in rechargeable batteries. Like cobalt and iron, this element is 
ferromagnetic at room temperature. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number 28 and atomic 
symbol Ni. 
ANSWER:  
nickel 
 [or   until it is read] 
Ni 
189-13-96-04110 
11. A roguish hero from this country's literature bores a hole in a wine jug to steal from his abusive blind 
master. A playwright from this country described the deaths of Leonardo and the Bridegroom in  
Blood 
Wedding. 
 An iconic character from this country decides to become a knight errant after reading too many 
books of chivalry, subsequently getting into an unfortunate joust with some windmills. For 10 points, name 
this setting of  
Lazarillo de Tormes 
 (lah-zah-REE-yoh day TOR-mace) where Miguel de Cervantes penned  
Don Quixote. 
ANSWER:  
Spain 
080-13-96-04111 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  2 of 10 
12. A city from this modern-day country names a major chord built on the lowered second scale degree. 
The NBC Symphony Orchestra was established for a conductor from this country. A composer from this 
country supposedly saved polyphony with a performance of the  
Pope Marcellus Mass. 
 A Baroque 
composer from this country wrote a set of four violin concerti that depict events such as a thunderstorm and 
hunting in his  
The Four Seasons. 
 For 10 points, name this country, the setting of Ottorino Respighi's  
Pines 
of Rome. 
ANSWER:  
Italy 
 [or  
Italian 
 Republic; or Repubblica  
Italiana 
] 
140-13-96-04112 
13. This river contains a seventy-five-mile stretch of rough rapids dubbed \"The Gates of Hell.\" The central 
portion of this river's basin is known as the \"cuvette\" and contains the second-largest rainforest in the 
world. This river splits off at a point, creating a lake-like area now known as the Malebo Pool. The Lualaba 
is this river's largest tributary. The cities of Kinshasa and Brazzaville lie on the banks of this river, which 
lends its name to the countries both of those cities are located in. For 10 points, name this major river of 
central Africa, the second longest on the continent. 
ANSWER:  
Congo 
 River 
230-13-96-04113 
14. This poem's third section declares that this poem's dedicatee \"will split the heavens of Long Island and 
resurrect your living human Jesus from the superhuman tomb.\" The second part of this poem describes a 
character who is \"the crossbone soulless jailhouse and Congress of sorrows\" named Moloch. This poem 
declares \"Carl Solomon! I'm with you in Rockland\" and starts by declaring that \"I saw the best minds of my 
generation destroyed by madness.\" For 10 points, name this poem by Allen Ginsberg. 
ANSWER:  
Howl 
186-13-96-04114 
15. This man's secretary of state James Byrnes was the recipient of George Kennan's \"Long Telegram.\" He 
fired Secretary of Commerce Henry Wallace for Wallace's pro-Soviet beliefs on foreign policy. This man 
ran against Wallace for President when Wallace was with the Progressive Party, in the same year that 
dissidents from his party nominated Strom Thurmond for the \"Dixiecrat\" ticket. As President, he sent 
troops to Korea and approved dropping the atomic bomb. For 10 points, name this successor of Franklin 
Roosevelt. 
ANSWER: Harry S.  
Truman 
121-13-96-04115 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 4 
Directed Round 
1A.  What nineteenth-century American poet wrote \"To a Waterfowl\" and \"Thanatopsis?\" 
ANSWER: William Cullen  
Bryant 
1B.  In what German board game do players try to get ten Victory Points by acquiring sheep, wheat, wood, 
brick, and ore? 
ANSWER:  
The  Settlers of Catan 
2A.  What type of star, which is composed of electron-degenerate matter, has an upper mass bound 
described by the Chandrasekhar (chohn-druh-shay-KAR) limit? 
ANSWER:  
white dwarf 
s 
2B.  What Naiad was turned into a laurel tree while being pursued by Apollo? 
ANSWER:  
Daphne 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. A school brings six players to a quizbowl tournament. How 
many different ways are there to pick four players to play in a given round? 
ANSWER:  
15 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. You invest 10 dollars at one percent interest, compounded 
continuously. Rounded to the nearest dollar, how much money will you have after one hundred years? 
ANSWER: $ 
27 
4A.  What Cavalier poet instructed, \"Gather ye rosebuds, while ye may,\" in his \"To the Virgins, to Make 
Much of Time\"? 
ANSWER: Robert  
Herrick 
4B.  What French architect built the Villa Savoye and laid out the Five Points of Architecture in a famous 
treatise? 
ANSWER: Le  
Corbusier 
5A.  What Showtime network TV show follows a Miami serial killer who abides by the Code of Harry? 
ANSWER:  
Dexter 
5B.  What Indian novelist earned a  
fatwa 
 from Ayatollah Khomeini for writing  
The Satanic Verses? 
ANSWER: Salman  
Rushdie 
6A.  At what 480 BCE battle did three hundred Spartans led by King Leonidas hold off a larger Persian 
army? 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Thermopylae 
6B.  What name is given to the heterogeneous sediment deposited by glaciers that covers structures like 
moraines? 
ANSWER:  
till 
7A.  What theorem states that for any integer n greater than 2, no three integers can satisfy the equation a to 
the n plus b to the n equals c to the n? 
ANSWER:  
Fermat's last 
 theorem 
7B.  What American painted  
Automat 
 and  
Nighthawks 
? 
ANSWER: Edward  
Hopper 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  4 of 10 
8A.  What German-American anthropologist taught Edward Sapir and Margaret Mead at Columbia 
University? 
ANSWER: Franz  
Boas 
8B.  What Mesoamerican civilization led by Montezuma was crushed by the conquistador Hernan Cortes? 
ANSWER:  
Aztec 
s 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A dartboard has radius 8 inches, and the inner bullseye has 
radius of one-half an inch. If a dart strikes the dartboard, what is the probability that it hits the bullseye? 
ANSWER:  
1/256 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If angle theta is in quadrant II and sine theta is two over the 
square root of 29, what is sine of two theta? 
ANSWER:  
-20/29 
10A.  What composer's forty-first and final symphony in C major is nicknamed the \"Jupiter?\" 
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
10B.  What man, who held power in the Soviet Union from 1985 to 1991, instituted the reform programs of 
\"perestroika\" (peh-ress-TROY-kuh) and \"glasnost\" (GLAZ-nahst)? 
ANSWER: Mikhail  
Gorbachev 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 4 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. These entities do not perform any work on an isolated charge, and the divergence of its strength is 
always zero. Maxwell found that changing electric fields can generate one of these, and the force on a 
particle moving through one of these entities is proportional to the cross product of its velocity and this 
entity's strength. They can also be generated by electric currents, and their strength is measured in Gausses 
or Teslas. For 10 points, identify this type of field that deflects compass needles. 
ANSWER:  
magnetic 
 field [or  -field or  -field] 
B H 
226-13-96-04117 
2. In one of this man's novels, Gordon Comstock returns to his old job at an ad agency after willingly 
reducing himself to poverty. In an essay by this man, he wrote that modern political literature is \"largely the 
defense of the indefensible.\" In addition to penning  
Keep the Aspidistra Flying 
 and \"Politics and the 
English Language,\" this man wrote a novel in which O'Brien betrays Winston Smith in a country 
dominated by Big Brother. For 10 points, name this British author of  
Nineteen Eighty-Four 
 and  
Animal 
Farm. 
ANSWER: George  
Orwell 
 [or Eric  
Blair 
] 
030-13-96-04118 
3. This element's sulfide can build up on the inside of electronics in a phenomenon called \"whiskering\". 
Electrum is an alloy of gold and this element. A test that distinguishes aldehydes from ketones uses a 
nitrate of this element dissolved in ammonia, called Tollens's reagent. This transition metal, which has the 
lowest electrical resistivity of any element, is below copper and above gold on the periodic table. For 10 
points, name this precious metal which forms an alloy with copper named sterling, an element with atomic 
symbol Ag. 
ANSWER:  
silver 
 [or  
Ag 
 until it is read] 
239-13-96-04119 
4. In February 2010, this man declared his state was in fiscal emergency and on the same day eliminated 
the Department of the Public Advocate. On election day 2013, this man won re-election over Democratic 
challenger Barbara Buono. In 2012, he drew criticism from his own party after visiting areas affected by 
Hurricane Sandy with Barack Obama. In January 2014, he was accused of conspiring to create traffic jams 
on the George Washington Bridge as retribution against Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich. For 10 points, 
name this current governor of New Jersey. 
ANSWER: Chris  
Christie 
225-13-96-04120 
5. Invariants named for these constructs are true after every time they are executed. A type of them whose 
name is prefixed with \"do\" checks the termination condition at the end, rather than the beginning. One can 
go to the beginning of one of them with the \"continue\" command, or leave one entirely with the \"break\" 
command. These constructs come in \"while\" and \"for\" types. For 10 points, name these repeating pieces of 
code, an \"infinite\" one of which will cause a program to run forever. 
ANSWER:  
loop 
s [or specific answers, such as  
for loop 
s or  
while loop 
s] 
132-13-96-04121 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  6 of 10 
6. Many angiosperms arose as a result of a polyploidy-based type of this process. Niles Eldredge and 
Stephen Jay Gould proposed that this process happens over brief time periods in punctuated equilibrium. 
The most common form of this process occurs when a group of organisms becomes geographically isolated 
and undergoes genetic divergence compared to a parent population; that is its allopatric type. For 10 points, 
identify this term for the process by which new species arise. 
ANSWER:  
speciation 
 [or obvious equivalents, such as the creation of  
new species 
, until \"new species 
arise\" is read; prompt on  
anagenesis 
; prompt on  
cladogenesis 
; prompton  
genetic drift 
; prompt on  
natural 
selection 
; prompt on  
evolution 
] 
066-13-96-04122 
7. This man founded the all-female music group called the Moranbong Band. He is the dedicatee of the 
song \"Onwards Toward the Final Victory.\" This man has attempted to erase the past of his wife, a former 
singer in the Unhasu Orchestra, and his former bodyguard revealed the existence of more than a dozen of 
this man's private homes, including Ryongsong Residence. This world leader notoriously purged his own 
uncle, Jang Sung-taek, and the first American he ever met may have been Dennis Rodman. For 10 points, 
name this Supreme Leader of North Korea. 
ANSWER:  
Kim Jong-un 
 [prompt on  
Kim 
] 
052-13-96-04123 
8. In January 2011, Harvey Updike called in to a radio show to claim he poisoned this university's Toomer's 
Corner Oaks. Chris Davis returned a kick more than a hundred yards to give this university a win in the 
2013 Iron Bowl. This university got a late lead on a Tre Mason run during a 2014 bowl game, but gave up a 
touchdown with thirteen seconds left to a team led by Jameis (JAY-mis) Winston. This university won the 
2011 BCS title with Cam Newton. For 10 points, name this university that lost in the 2014 title game to 
Florida State and has an in-state rivalry with Alabama. 
ANSWER:  
Auburn 
 University [prompt on  
Tigers 
] 
023-13-96-04124 
9. This god disguises himself as Gagnrathr (GAG-in-roth-er) to engage in a riddling contest with 
Vafthruthnir (vaf-THROOF-neer). While pretending to be Bolverk (BUL-verk), he stole the mead of poetry 
from Baugi (BOW-gee). In the  
Voluspa, 
 (vuh-LUSS-puh) a seer tells him that at Ragnarok, he will be 
swallowed by the wolf Fenrir (FEN-reer). This god hanged himself from Yggdrasil (IG-druh-sil) for nine 
days to learn the runes, and put one of his eyes in Mimir's (MIM-eerz) well in exchange for wisdom. For 10 
points, name this husband of Frigg, father of Thor, and chief Norse god. 
ANSWER:  
Odin 
121-13-96-04125 
10. In a play by this author, a dramatic cold snap freezes Excelsior, New Jersey, where the Antrobus family 
owns a mammoth. This author's play  
The Matchmaker 
 provides the basis for the musical  
Hello, Dolly! 
 At 
the end of his best-known play, Emily relives her twelfth birthday after addressing her fellow ghosts in a 
cemetery. In that play, the Stage Manager comments on the marriage of George Gibbs and Emily Webb in 
Grover's Corners. For 10 points, name this American playwright of  
Our Town. 
ANSWER: Thornton  
Wilder 
080-13-96-04126 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  7 of 10 
11. A character in this opera tells of how he was asked to play violin to a pet parrot until the parrot died. 
Another character tells of her love for flowers following the aria \"che gelida manina\" (kay JAH-lee-duh 
mah-NEE-nuh). Two characters in this opera sing of their love for each other in \"O soave fanciulla\" (oh 
soo-AH-vay fohn-CHOO-luh). The aria \"quando me'n v'o\" is sung while Musetta dances a waltz to 
Marcello in this opera, which ends with Rodolfo weeping as Mimi dies of consumption. For 10 points, 
name this opera by Giacomo Puccini set in the poor quarters of Paris. 
ANSWER:  
La  boheme 
140-13-96-04127 
12. The Zulu words \"ummese\" (oo-MEH-seh) and \"igotshwa\" (ee-GOT-shwuh) can both be translated as 
this object in English. A French idiom for a confused person literally translates as \"a hen that has found\" 
this item. Though Dutch and Danish have a similar word for this object as English, derived from 
Proto-Germanic, the High German languages call it a \"messer.\" This item is a \"couteau\" in French and a 
\"cuchillo\" (coo-CHEE-yoh) in Spanish. In prison slang, this item may be called a \"shank\" or a \"shiv.\" For 
10 points, identify this object used to eat food or stab someone. 
ANSWER: a  
knife 
019-13-96-04128 
13. A Glu-104-Asp mutation in one enzyme in this pathway causes a rare chronic hemolytic anemia and 
cardiomyopathy. An isomerase in this pathway is one of the few catalytically perfect enzymes. The first 
enzyme in this pathway is hexokinase. This process begins with an investment phase and ends with a 
payoff phase, which uses substrate-level phosphorylation to generate a net of two ATP. For 10 points, name 
this process that generates a pair of pyruvate molecules by splitting a monosaccharide. 
ANSWER:  
glycolysis 
 [or  
Embden-Meyerhof 
-Parnas pathway] 
048-13-96-04129 
14. Dennis Macdonald holds that the story of this man is an imitation of the episode in which Odysseus 
defeats the suitors. In John 18, this character is called by the word \"lestes,\" (LESS-teez) meaning \"bandit\" 
or \"revolutionary.\" In Mark and Luke, he is said to have been involved in the riot against the plan to plant 
Roman standards on the Temple Mount, and in Matthew, he is simply called a \"notorious prisoner.\" The 
chant of a crowd to \"give us\" this man is the origin of the \"Jewish deicide\" (DAY-uh-side) belief. For 10 
points, name this criminal released instead of Jesus. 
ANSWER:  
Barabbas 
019-13-96-04130 
15. This city's Augarten park contains two half-finished anti-aircraft towers too solid to be safely 
demolished. For many years, the world's tallest Ferris wheel was in the park called the Prater in its district 
of Leopoldstadt. When this city's second through ninth districts were added, the old city walls were 
replaced by the road called the Ringstrasse. The Schönbrunn Palace was the summer residence for this 
city's Habsburg monarchs. For 10 points, name this capital of Austria. 
ANSWER:  
Vienna 
, Austria [or  
Wien 
, Österreich] 
121-13-96-04131 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 4 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Howard Jarvis successfully advocated for an amendment to this state's constitution that limited the 
maximum level of property taxes. Over sixty percent of voters supported that ballot initiative here, which 
was known as Proposition 13. A man who promised to make the \"welfare bums\" work defeated Pat Brown 
for the governorship here in 1966. Brown won its 1962 election running against Richard Nixon, and his son 
Jerry is the current governor of this state. For 10 points, name this state, where Ronald Reagan was 
governor in the 1960s. 
ANSWER:  
California 
121-13-96-04132 
2. One example of this genre addressed to \"Vera\" was written by Vladimir Nabokov and originally referred 
to the mother of the Muses. Another book in this genre describes how the main character was sexually 
abused by her mother's boyfriend Mr. Freeman and then helped out of a period of silence by Bertha 
Flowers after moving back to Stamps, Arkansas. For 10 points, name this genre that includes  
Speak, 
Memory 
 and Maya Angelou's  
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, 
 which both describe the authors's lives. 
ANSWER:  
autobiography 
 [or  
autobiographies 
; or  
memoir 
s] 
023-13-96-04133 
3. In the Debye (DEH-buy) model, specific heat is proportional to temperature raised to this power. A 
compound containing this many oxygen atoms is broken down via a radical mechanism by CFCs. Bent 
molecules have one electron lone pair and this many atoms. This type of s p hybridization is exhibited by 
methane. It is the number of valence electrons for aluminum and boron. This many hydrogens are bonded 
with a phosphate ion to form phosphoric acid. For 10 points, identify this number of oxygen atoms in 
ozone. 
ANSWER:  
three 
189-13-96-04134 
4. During this battle, the Ninth Corps took three hours to get across the Lower Bridge, which was 
subsequently called the Burnside Bridge. This battle was shortly preceded by both the Battle of South 
Mountain and Stonewall Jackson's capture of Harpers Ferry. The outcome of this battle allowed for the 
issuing of the Emancipation Proclamation and stopped the advance of the Confederate army into Maryland. 
For 10 points, name this 1862 Civil War battle that was a Union victory and the single bloodiest day of the 
war. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Antietam 
 [or Battle of  
Sharpsburg 
] 
023-13-96-04135 
5. The removal of these proteins by apharesis is the treatment for Guillain–Barré (GHEE-yahn BAR-ay) 
syndrome. These proteins are the subject of the Kabat numbering scheme, and their function mostly 
depends on their CDR3 regions. These proteins are separated into isotypes by their constant regions, consist 
of two heavy and two light chains, and get their variable regions from VDJ recombination. These proteins 
are secreted by plasma cells. For 10 points, name these Y-shaped proteins that are secreted by B-cells and 
which bind to antigens. 
ANSWER:  
antibodies 
 [or  
immunoglobulin 
s] 
048-13-96-04136 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  9 of 10 
This is a calculation question. The cosine of an angle equals three-fourths. If the angle lies in Quadrant IV, 
what is the angle’s sine? 
ANSWER:  
negative 
 square  
root 
 of   over   [or  
7 4 negative root 7 divided by 4 
; or  
negative one-fourth 
times the square  
root 
 of  ] 
7 
What British monarch presided over the British presence in the Crimean War during her sixty-three year 
reign? 
ANSWER: Queen  
Victoria 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2014     4     Page  10 of 10 
