This is page 1 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2015  
Round 7  
First Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. This prophet delivered a sermon that convinced a king to put on sackcloth and sit on ashes out  
of repentance. A worm ate the roots of a leafy plant under which this man took shelter from the  
sun. This prophet attempted to run away to Tarshish (tar-SHEESH) when he was told to preach  
to the people of Nineveh (NIN-uh-vuh). During a storm, a group of sailors threw him overboard,  
after which he was eaten alive. For 10 points, name this prophet who was swallowed by a large  
fish.  
ANSWER:  Jonah  [or  Jonas ; or  Younis ; or  Yona ; or  Yunus ]  
2. This author created a character who believes that she drank her sister’s blood when she was  
breastfeeding from her mother. In one of her novels, Cholly (CHA-lee) rapes Pauline, who gives  
birth to Pecola Breedlove, a girl who longs for the title facial feature. Paul D arrives at 124  
Bluestone Road in a novel by this author named for one of Sethe’s (SETH-uh’s) daughters, who  
comes back to life after being killed as a baby. For 10 points, name this African-American  
woman, the author of  The Bluest Eye  and  Beloved.   
ANSWER: Toni  Morrison  [or Chloe Ardelia  Wofford ]  
3. The southern portion of this island is an ecological hotspot which features Grandidier’s (gran- 
dee-dee-YAY’s) mongoose and “spiny thickets” vegetation. This island is home to the traveler’s  
palm, and a “natural monument” in its Menabe (meh-NAH-bay) region is known as the Avenue  
of the Baobabs. It is home to a “ring-tailed” primate and is separated from Africa by the  
Mozambique Channel. For 10 points, lemurs and the Malagasy (mah-luh-GAH-say) people are  
native to what “Big Red Island” in the Indian Ocean?  
ANSWER:  Madagascar   
4. This novel was written in response to Lord Byron’s proposal that each of the guests at his villa  
“write a ghost story.” The protagonist of this novel is motivated by his mother’s death from  
scarlet fever and an instance of lightning striking an oak tree. In this novel, the title character  
experiments with body parts from corpses to create a giant, ugly man. For 10 points, name this  
novel by Mary Shelley whose title character is often confused with the monster he creates.  
ANSWER:  Frankenstein Frankenstein   [ ; or, the Modern Prometheus ]  
5. This food is topped with gravy and cheese curds in the Quebecois (keh-beh-KWAH) dish  
poutine (poo-TEEN). Five Guys restaurants can serve this food in the “Cajun style.” After a  
certain country announced its opposition to the Iraq War, Republican representative Bob Ney  
attempted to change the adjective describing this food to “freedom.” In the United Kingdom, this  
food is known as “chips,” and is often served alongside fish. For 10 points, name these strips of  
potatoes that serve as side dishes at many fast food restaurants.  
ANSWER: French  fries  [or  pommes frites ; prompt on  potato es until it is read] 
This is page 2 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. One of these institutions called  The Argus  was created to support Andrew Jackson by Amos  
Kendall. Benjamin Franklin sent letters to one of these institutions under the pseudonym Silence  
Dogood. An owner of one of these institutions was defended by Andrew Hamilton in a trial  
resulting from his alleged libel of Governor William Cosby. The Zenger trial involved one of  
these institutions. For 10 points, name this type of publication owned by Joseph Pulitzer and  
William Randolph Hearst and exemplified by the  New York Times .  
ANSWER:  newspaper s [prompt on less specific answers such as  periodical s]  
7. This process mainly occurs through the extrinsic tissue factor pathway, which involves factor  
VIIa (“seven a”). It is decreased in von Willebrand disease. Deep-vein thrombosis may be treated  
with drugs that decrease this process, such as heparin (HEP-uh-rin), and warfarin (WAR-fuh-rin)  
limits this pathway by inhibiting vitamin K activity. In this process, fibrin and platelets clump at  
the site of tissue damage. Dysfunction in it can cause bruising and hemorrhages. For 10 points,  
name this process, defective in hemophilia, that stanches bleeding.  
ANSWER:  clotting  [or  coagulation ; prompt on  bleeding  until “Willebrand” is read but not  
after]  
8. In 1992, this politician returned the black box from Korean Airlines Flight 007 to South  
Korea. In 1998, he dismissed Sergei Kirienko (keer-YANE-koh) as Prime Minister after his  
country defaulted on its debts. A coup attempt against this politician failed after military officers  
loyal to him shelled the parliament building. This leader began the First Chechen (CHEH-chin)  
War in 1994. He stood on a tank turret to voice his opposition to a coup attempt against Mikhail  
Gorbachev. For 10 points, name this politician, who served as the first President of Russia.  
ANSWER: Boris  Yeltsin  [Boris Nikolayevich  Yeltsin ]  
9. The symmetric group of order 3 does not have this property, which is possessed by all pairs of  
elements in abelian (ah-BEE-lee-uhn) groups. Matrix multiplication does not always satisfy this  
property. Subtraction and division of real numbers do not have this property, but addition and  
multiplication do. For 10 points, name this mathematical property in which the order of operands  
does not matter, exemplified by the fact that a times b equals b times a.  
ANSWER:  commutativity  [or  commutative  property]  
10. In a painting by this artist, a man steps over a wall in the background and three women pray  
at the feet of the subject. A group of women wearing habits watch Jacob wrestling the angel in  
this artist’s  Vision After the Sermon.  He depicted women representing life from childhood to  
adulthood to old age in his painting  Where Do We Come From? What Are We? Where Are We  
Going?  This artist left Paris in the middle of his career to travel to Tahiti. For 10 points, name  
this French painter of  The Yellow Christ.   
ANSWER: Paul  Gauguin 
This is page 3 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. In February 2014, Japan Industrial Partners purchased this company’s computer  
manufacturing division. In 2014, this company was targeted by the Guardians of Peace, who  
released the phone numbers of various celebrities, as well as copies of films including  Annie  and  
Fury . North Korea called a 2014 cyber-attack against this company a “righteous deed.” For 10  
points, name this company, which manufactures the Playstation, and whose film studio was  
hacked in November 2014, causing it to scale back the release of  The Interview .  
ANSWER:  Sony  Corporation  
12. This group signed the Treaty of Misenum (mee-SAY-num) with a man that it later defeated  
at the Battle of Naulochus (now-LOH-kuss), the pirate leader Sextus Pompeius. This group  
signed the Treaty of Brundisium after winning the Battle of Philippi. A member of this group  
was defeated by Agrippa at the Battle of Actium, leading him to commit suicide with his lover  
Cleopatra. For 10 points, name this government led by Lepidus, Marc Antony, and Octavian,  
which was modeled on a similar group headed by Julius Caesar.  
ANSWER:  Second Triumvirate  [prompt on  triumvirate ]  
13. With Hermann Helmholtz, this physicist developed a trichromatic theory of vision. He is the  
namesake of a physical term equal to the ratio of stress to strain in a material. This man  
conducted an experiment in which he observed a pair of bands instead of the predicted  
interference pattern; that experiment characterized the wave nature of light. For 10 points, name  
this English physicist who performed the “double-slit experiment.”  
ANSWER: Thomas  Young   
14. This poet used the phrase “carmen et error” to identify the cause, lamented in his  Tristia,  of  
his exile to the Black Sea by Augustus. He wrote a fifteen-book poem, the first book of which  
describes the creation of the world and the flood survived by Pyrrha (PEER-uh) and Deucalion  
(doo-KALE-yun). In that poem, he described the old couple Baucis (BAO-kiss) and Philemon  
(FIE-luh-mon) being transformed into trees. For 10 points, name this Roman poet of the  
Metamorphoses.   
ANSWER:  Ovid  [Publius  Ovid ius Naso]  
15. The Myriad Botanical Gardens were designed in accordance with this man’s redevelopment  
plan for Oklahoma City. This longtime collaborator with Henry N. Cobb designed a triangular  
skyscraper for the Bank of China in Hong Kong and gave Boston its tallest building by designing  
the Hancock Tower. This architect’s design for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland  
brought back a glass-and-metal element that he used as the entryway to a Paris museum. For 10  
points, name this Chinese-American architect of the Louvre pyramid.  
ANSWER: I.M.  Pei  [Ieoh Ming  Pei ] 
This is page 4 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 7  
Directed Round   
1A. Name the Dutch city where, in 1992, a treaty was signed which created the “pillar structure”  
of the present-day European Union and first proposed the euro?  
ANSWER:  Maastricht   
1B. What actor’s movie roles have included Stuart Twombly in  The Internship  and Thomas in  
the 2014 film  The Maze Runner ?  
ANSWER: Dylan  O’Brien   
2A. Give the English word for the part of a house which is known as a “schlafzimmer”  
(SHLAAF-zee-mur) in German, “chambre à coucher” (SHAHM-bruh ah COO-shay) in French,  
and “dormitorio” (dohr-mee-tor-EE-oh) in Spanish.  
ANSWER:  bedroom   
2B. In October 2014, Julia Pierson resigned as the head of what group after various embarrassing  
incidents, such as its failure to stop intruder Dominic Adesanya?  
ANSWER: United States  Secret Service   
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Over what interval is the function f of x equals x  
squared plus 2 x plus 1 increasing?  
ANSWER: x is  greater than -1  [or  (-1, infinity) ]  
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. For what value of w does the arctangent of 2w  
equal zero?  
ANSWER:    0 
4A. What twentieth-century Russian author wrote about Woland in  The Master and Margarita ?  
ANSWER: Mikhail  Bulgakov  [Mikhail Afanasyevich  Bulgakov ]  
4B. Thymine (“THIGH”-meen) is replaced with which nucleotide (NOOK-lee-uh-tide) base in  
RNA?  
ANSWER:  uracil  [prompt on  ]  U 
5A. What city was legendarily founded by Cadmus, who was aided by men that sprang from  
planted dragon’s teeth?  
ANSWER:  Thebes 
This is page 5 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5B. At the Constitutional Convention, instead of being counted as a full person in determining a  
state’s population count, slaves were counted as what fraction of a person?  
ANSWER:  three-fifths   
6A. What 1709 victory for Peter the Great over Swedish forces marked the turning point of the  
Great Northern War?  
ANSWER: Battle of  Poltava   
6B. What eponymous verb derived from the publisher of  The Family Shakspeare  refers to the act  
of censoring text deemed too vulgar?  
ANSWER:  bowdlerize  [or word forms]  
7A. What property states that if a equals b and b equals c, then a equals c?  
ANSWER:  transitive  property of equality [or  transitivity ]  
7B. What present-day city’s houses of worship include the Ottoman-era “Blue” Mosque and the  
Byzantine-era Hagia Sophia, which now serves as a museum?  
ANSWER:  Istanbul   
8A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If the range of Julia’s five test scores is 17 and her  
first four scores were 80, 90, 76, and 84, what are the two possible values of her score on the  
fifth test?  
ANSWER:  73  and  93  [do not accept only one answer by itself]  
8B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Circle O and Circle A intersect at points B and C  
such that quadrilateral ABOC is a square. If both circles have a radius of 2 inches, what is the  
area of their intersection?  
ANSWER:  2 pi minus 4  inches [or  2 times quantity pi minus 2  inches]  
9A. What term describes a set of equations that generates a curve in the x-y plane by setting x  
and y to different functions of a single other variable?  
ANSWER:  parametric  equations  
9B. The Great Blue Hole, a popular diving destination, can be found in what country, whose  
capital was moved inland to Belmopan after Hurricane Hattie devastated its namesake city?  
ANSWER:  Belize   
10A. What author described the Stamper family in his novel  Sometimes a Great Notion  and also  
wrote  One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest ?  
ANSWER: Ken  Kesey   
10B. What poet wrote that the laurel “withers quicker than the rose” in his poem “To an Athlete  
Dying Young,” which is part of his collection  A Shropshire Lad ?  
ANSWER: A. E.  Housman  [Alfred Edward  Housman ] 
This is page 6 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 7  
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. A band that hails from this country included “Beware The Dog” on their album  Be Impressive .  
This country titles a song by The Shins that ends with a request to “give me your hand” and  
“jump out the window.” Another musical group from here sang, “My friends are gonna be there  
too” in a song that ends, “I’m on the highway to hell.” The Griswolds and AC/DC both hail from  
this country. The unofficial national anthem of this country is “Walzing Matilda.” For 10 points,  
name this country that the band Men at Work boasted about in the song “Down Under.”  
ANSWER:  Australia  [Commonwealth of  Australia ]  
2. This man wrote that “history repeats, first as tragedy, then as farce” to describe the rise of  
Louis Napoleon. In another text, this man wrote that societal contributions should come “from  
each according to his ability, to each according to his need.” With a younger colleague, he wrote  
that all previous history was “the history of class struggles.” This man described the exploitation  
of labor in his text  Das Kapital . For 10 points, name this German thinker who collaborated with  
Friedrich Engels on  The Communist Manifesto .  
ANSWER: Karl  Marx   
3. Instead of applying this theory to the mentally ill, its creator studied “exemplary people” such  
as Albert Einstein and Eleanor Roosevelt. Represented as a pyramid, this idea’s lower four layers  
are called deficient, or “d-needs.” This construct, first proposed in “A Theory of Human  
Motivation,” suggests the fulfillment of physiological needs occurs before that of self-esteem  
and “self-actualization.” For 10 points, identify this theory developed by Abraham Maslow.  
ANSWER: Maslow’s  hierarchy of needs  [or  Theory of Human Motivation  until it is read]  
4. This company offered stock to its competitors in the Cleveland Massacre. Its founder was  
behind the ill-fated South Improvement Company, which intended to pay secret rebates for use  
of freight rail. This company’s successors included Socony and Esso. An exposé of this  
corporation serialized in  McClure ’s portrayed this company as an octopus and was written by  
muckraker Ida Tarbell. It was broken up into thirty-four firms in 1911 under the Sherman Anti- 
Trust Act. For 10 points, John D. Rockefeller founded what petroleum monopoly?  
ANSWER:  Standard Oil  Company  
5. This effort was orchestrated by the Akazu (ah-KAH-zoo) and carried out by groups such as  
the Impuza-mugambi (imp-OO-zah-moo-GAHM-bee). This event, which marked the failure of  
the Arusha Accords and UNAMIR, began the Lakes Crisis. The Interahamwe (in-tair-uh- 
HAHM-way) militias helped carry out this event, after a rocket took down a plane carrying  
Juvenal Habyarimana (hahb-yah-ree-MAH-nah) and the president of Burundi. For 10 points,  
name this campaign of mass killing pitting Hutus against Tutsis in 1994.  
ANSWER: the  Rwandan Genocide  [prompt on  Rwandan Civil War ] 
This is page 7 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. This ruler’s control of Milan and Naples was recognized in the Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis  
(CAH-toe-cahm-BRAY-sis), which he signed with Henry II of France. With Juan Bautista de  
Toledo, this king designed the El Escorial (esk-ore-ee-AHL) palace. His half-brother Don Juan  
of Austria led the Holy League forces that defeated the Ottomans at Lepanto. This king sent an  
invasion force led by the Duke of Medina Sidonia in an attempt to overthrow Elizabeth I. For 10  
points, name this Habsburg King of Spain who sent the Spanish Armada against England.  
ANSWER:  Philip II  [or  Felipe II ; or  Philip the Prudent ; or  Felipe el Prudente ; prompt on  
Philip ; prompt on  Felipe ]  
7. An odd m-over-z ratio in mass spectrometry usually means that this element is present.  
Hydrogen atoms bonded to this element form hydrogen bonds between base pairs in DNA. Both  
this element’s oxide and its dioxide are free radicals. In most compounds, this second-period  
element has a trigonal pyramidal geometry, with a single lone pair. This element is stable as a  
diatomic gas with a triple bond. For 10 points, name this element that makes up the majority of  
the Earth’s atmosphere.  
ANSWER:  nitrogen  [or  ]  N 
8. This practice is guided by the three Rs of “replacement, reduction, and refinement.” William  
Bayliss’s use of this practice led to the creation and then destruction of a statue in the Brown  
Dog Affair. This practice is used to determine a substance’s LD50 for oral administration.  
Pharmaceutical and cosmetics companies usually follow this practice with euthanasia. For 10  
points, name this practice in which the effects of products or drugs are assessed using non-human  
organisms, such as rabbits and mice.  
ANSWER:  animal test ing [or  animal experimentation ; or  vivisection ; or obvious equivalents;  
prompt on  medical test s; prompt on  dissection ]  
9. Many modern descriptions of this object are based on the writings of Robert de Boron. Some  
legends claim that Joseph of Arimathea brought this object to Glastonbury, England and hid it in  
a well. Other legends portray this object as having the power to heal the wounds of The Fisher  
King. This object became the focus of a quest undertaken by King Arthur’s knights. For 10  
points, what is this object that, according to many legends, was the cup Jesus drank from at the  
Last Supper?  
ANSWER: the  Holy Grail   
10. The southernmost settlement in this island chain is built around Silver Lake Harbor and  
contains its state’s oldest lighthouse, Ocracoke (OAK-ruh-coak). The highest point in this region  
is the constantly-shifting sand dune system Jockey’s Ridge, in the town of Nags Head. Its Bodie  
Island is now part of the Currituck Banks peninsula, and it is separated from the mainland by  
Albemarle and Pamlico Sounds. For 10 points, Cape Hatteras National Seashore and the Wright  
Brothers Memorial are found in what barrier island chain in eastern North Carolina?  
ANSWER:  Outer Banks 
This is page 8 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. Two of the four main TORCH infections are caused by members of this family. One species  
of this group causes Kaposi’s sarcoma. This family’s members include the two causes of mono,  
cytomegalovirus (SAI-toh-MEG-uh-loh-“virus”) and Epstein-Barr virus. All species in this  
family can be reactivated after latency, such as when shingles occurs decades after chickenpox  
infection. Oral blisters are caused by two types of this family’s  simplex  species. For 10 points,  
name this viral family with members that cause cold sores and can be transmitted sexually.  
ANSWER:  herpes virus  [or  herpesviridae ]  
12. This poem was originally a much longer manuscript entitled  He Do the Police in Different  
Voices,  but its author edited it down to its current 434 lines with the help of Ezra Pound. This  
poem alludes to the opening of  The Canterbury Tales  in its first lines and concludes by repeating  
the Sanskrit word for profound peace. This poem’s five sections include “What the Thunder  
Said” and “The Burial of the Dead,” which begins, “April is the cruelest month.” For 10 points,  
name this 1922 modernist poem by T. S. Eliot.  
ANSWER: “The  Waste Land ”  
13. With an Indian scientist, this physicist names a state of matter that is a dilute gas of bosons  
that forms at ultra-cold temperatures. This man, who co-names a state of matter with Satyendra   
Bose (saht-YEN-druh BOHZ), put forth a theory later verified by Jean Perrin (JON PAY-ron)  
about how Brownian motion works. This scientist proposed that light was quantized in his  
explanation of the photoelectric effect. He developed both special and general relativity. For 10  
points, name this German physicist responsible for the formula “E equals m c squared.”  
ANSWER: Albert  Einstein   
14. After noticing mud on Demeter’s backside, this god killed his own son Iasion (ee-EY-sun).  
This god was tricked into believing that his wife will go to Oceanus (oh-kee-AH-nus) and Tethys  
(TETH-iss) in a story ending inside a golden cloud. The Curetes (CURE-uh-tayz) clashed shields  
and spears to conceal the cries of this god, who was switched with a rock in swaddling clothes so  
that he would not be eaten by his father. This god overthrew his father Cronus as the leader of a  
war against the Titans. For 10 points, name this thunderbolt-slinging king of the Greek gods.  
ANSWER:  Zeus  [do not accept “Jupiter”]  
15. This composer’s third symphony opens with two E-flat major chords played by the entire  
orchestra. He lamented his lack of artistic fulfillment in a letter called the Heiligenstadt (HEEL- 
ey-gensh-tot) Testament. This composer called for woodwind instruments to imitate a  
nightingale, quail, and cuckoo in the “scene by the brook” section of his sixth symphony. His  
fifth symphony begins with four notes described as “fate knocking at the door.” For 10 points,  
name this German composer who used “Ode to Joy” in his ninth symphony after going deaf.  
ANSWER: Ludwig van  Beethoven 
This is page 9 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 7  
Tiebreaker/replacement questions   
1. A statue of the Virgin Mary can be accessed by lift from Jounieh (joo-NEE-uh), a suburb of  
this country’s capital. This country’s agricultural industry is centered around its Beqaa (BEK-uh)  
Valley. A World Heritage Site in this country is named “Cedars of God” after its national  
symbol, the cedar tree. The Orontes (ore-AHN-tayz) River flows into Syria and Turkey after  
starting in this country. The Phoenician civilization was centered on this modern-day country.  
For 10 points, name this Middle Eastern country located north of Israel, whose capital is Beirut.  
ANSWER:  Lebanon  [or  Lebanese Republic ]  
2. This composer featured eighteen anvils in an opera that opens with a lengthy drone in E-flat  
major representing a river. In another opera by this composer, Mime (MEE-meh) intends to teach  
his foster son fear by taking him to the dragon Fafner. This composer used the Magic Fire Music  
to end an opera in which Loge (LOH-guh) encloses Brunnhilde in a circle of flame as ordered by  
Wotan. This composer of  Das Rheingold  and  Siegfried  opened the third act of another opera with  
the “Ride of the Valkyries.” For 10 points, name this German composer of the “Ring” cycle.  
ANSWER: Richard  Wagner  [Wilhelm Richard  Wagner ]  
3. This modern-day country is home to a city which, during the tenth century, was the most  
populous in the world and boasted a 400,000-volume library under Al-Hakim II. The battle of  
Covadonga took place here. Charlemagne established a buffer zone known as this country’s  
“march.” This country was home to taifa (tai-EE-fuh) kingdoms after the collapse of the  
Caliphate of Cordoba (CORE-doh-buh). For 10 points, name this country where Muslim rule  
was replaced by Christians in the Reconquista (REE-kahn-KEE-stuh), which ended in 1492.  
ANSWER:  Spain  [Kingdom of  Spain ; or Reino de  España ]  
4. In this novel, a woman throws a key into a fireplace to force her husband to fight her  
childhood friend. As children, one of those characters in this novel throws applesauce in the face  
of the other. This novel, mostly narrated by Nelly Dean, relates the history of the Linton and  
Earnshaw families, the latter of which adopts the orphan Heathcliff. For 10 points, name this  
novel by Emily Brönte.  
ANSWER:  Wuthering Heights   
5. In Cartesian coordinates, these functions graph a shape with an eccentricity of one. These  
functions will equal zero at exactly one real number if their discriminant is zero. A namesake  
formula states these functions have zeros at “negative b plus or minus square root b squared  
minus 4 a c all over 2 a.” The coordinates of their minimum or maximum point can be found by  
completing the square. For 10 points, name these functions with an “x squared” term.  
ANSWER:  quadratic  functions [or  quadratic  equations; or  second degree polynomial s] 
This is page 10 of 10 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 7 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
What class of molecules has an oxygen single-bonded to both a carbon and a hydrogen, and  
includes propanol and ethanol?  
ANSWER:  alcohol s  
This is a calculation question. Given that in triangle ABC, angle A measures 30 degrees and  
angle B measures 80 degrees, order the three sides of triangle ABC from smallest to largest.  
ANSWER:  BC, AB, AC  [or  CB, BA, CA ] 
