2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 3 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A holiday celebrating the reception of this religion's scripture is celebrated by staying up all night and 
eating dairy foods. Thirteen articles of faith about this religion's god are enumerated in a piyyut called  
Yigdal, 
 and were formulated by the author of the  
Guide for the Perplexed 
. That thinker, Maimonides, also 
discussed eight levels of charity in his commentary on this religion's Talmud. For 10 points, name this 
religion that follows the Torah. 
ANSWER:  
Judaism 
142-13-90-03101 
2. The ancient Egyptian Temple of Debod was reconstructed in this city, which is also home to the outdoor 
flea market called the Rastro. Well-known squares in this city include the Plaza de Cibeles, the site of a 
famous fountain, and the Puerta del Sol. This metropolis lying on the Manzanares River houses the Reina 
Sofia art museum as well as the Prado. For 10 points, name this largest city and capital of Spain. 
ANSWER:  
Madrid 
190-13-90-03102 
3. The  
Ars Magna 
 of Girolamo Cardano contained a formula for solving polynomials of this degree. An 
alkyne is defined by the presence of this type of bond. This number of non-collinear points is required to 
define a plane. The faces of a tetrahedron each have this many edges. This is the smallest number by which 
a number is divisible if the sum of its digits is divisible by this number. Lithium has this many protons. For 
10 points, identify this first odd prime number. 
ANSWER:  
three 
 [or  
triple 
; or  
cubic 
] 
066-13-90-03103 
4. Although not the simplex virus, the virus that causes this disease is most commonly treated with 
acyclovir. A reappearance of that virus that causes this disease can cause postherpetic neuralgia. That virus 
is varicella zoster, which causes shingles when it reappears. Calamine lotion or oatmeal baths are often 
used to relieve the symptoms of this disease, which is no longer contagious after its associated rash crusts 
over. For 10 points, name this disease that causes itchy red spots to appear on the body. 
ANSWER:  
chickenpox 
 [or  
varicella 
 until it is read; prompt on  
shingle 
s until is read] 
066-13-90-03104 
5. This baseball player was the first of Carl Hubbell's five consecutive strikeouts at the 1934 All-Star 
Game. This player hit his legendary \"Called Shot\" against the Cubs during the 1932 World Series. This 
player was the first to hit three home runs in one World Series game. This outfielder held the record for 
most career home runs until Hank Aaron passed him in 1974. For 10 points, name this legendary Yankees 
outfielder, who was nicknamed the \"Great Bambino.\" 
ANSWER: \"Babe\"  
Ruth 
 [or George Herman  
Ruth 
, Jr.; prompt on the  
Sultan of Swat 
; prompt on the  
Great Bambino 
 until it is mentioned] 
186-13-90-03105 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  1 of 9 
6. This politician was called the “Murderer of Gordon,” a reference to his supposed abandonment of 
General Gordon in Africa. He was Prime Minister during Britain’s war against the Mahdi in Sudan. This 
man served as Prime Minister on four separate occasions and was the oldest Prime Minister ever. This 
“Grand Old Man” frequently quarreled with Queen Victoria. For 10 points, name this British Prime 
Minister, a Liberal noted for his feuds with rival Benjamin Disraeli. 
ANSWER: William Ewart  
Gladstone 
052-13-90-03106 
7. Enyalios was a Mycenean deity who was often thought to be either this god or his son. With Otrera, this 
god's offspring included a woman whom Achilles fell in love with after slaying, the Amazon Penthesilea. 
After Helios discovered him, this god was trapped in a very fine net by his lover's jealous husband 
Hephaestus. This god had the children Phobos and Deimos after an affair with his sister Aphrodite. For 10 
points, identify this Greek god of war. 
ANSWER:  
Ares 
233-13-90-03107 
8. This man’s reputation was established in a painting set in the Petersburg battlefield, where Francis 
Channing Barlow inspects several prisoners. This artist showed children holding hands in front of a red 
schoolhouse in one painting. Another of his artworks shows sharks circling a rudderless boat captained by a 
single black man. For 10 points, name this American painter of  
Snap the Whip 
 and  
The Gulf Stream 
. 
ANSWER: Winslow  
Homer 
030-13-90-03108 
9. An excess amount of this controllable process is one major cause of amenorrhea. The Cori cycle corrects 
metabolic imbalances that arise during this process. One subtype of this process can be split into eccentric, 
concentric, and isometric phases. Different types of this process benefit from the recruitment of 
\"fast-twitch\" or \"slow-twitch\" tissues. This process results in the buildup of lactic acid, because glycolysis 
produces energy without the presence of oxygen. For 10 points, name this process which strengthens 
muscles and raises fitness. 
ANSWER: physical  
exercise 
 [prompt on  
muscle movement 
; accept any subtype of exercise, such as  
weightlifting 
 or synonyms, or  
cardiovascular 
 or  
aerobic 
 exercise] 
020-13-90-03109 
10. In this city, Clint Hill was filmed leaping onto the back of a car. A man was arrested in a movie theater 
here shortly after killing police officer J.D. Tippit. This city was where Governor John Connally was 
wounded by a gunman. A murder here was committed by a man who had positioned himself in a 
Schoolbook Depository at Dealey Plaza, which was followed soon after by Jack Ruby’s slaying of Lee 
Harvey Oswald. For 10 points, name this Texas city where John F. Kennedy was assassinated in 1963. 
ANSWER:  
Dallas 
052-13-90-03110 
11. This man continually sees his deceased older brother, Ben, a man who went into the jungle and came 
out rich. His affair with a woman in Boston horrifies his football player son, and he kills himself by 
crashing his car to provide insurance money to his family. This man is fired after his boss tells him he 
needs a rest from constantly traveling. The husband of Linda, he is the father of Biff and Happy. For 10 
points, name this protagonist of Arthur Miller’s  
Death of a Salesman. 
ANSWER:  
Willy 
 Loman [or Willy  
Loman 
] 
052-13-90-03111 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  2 of 9 
12. The least common naturally occurring isotope of potassium decays to argon or this element. Feldspars 
rich in sodium or this element, instead of potassium, are classified as plagioclase. One crystal form of this 
element's carbonate is aragonite, which is found in a sedimentary rock whose solubility at weak acidities 
leads to the formation of karst topography. That sedimentary rock is limestone. For 10 points, identify this 
element found in hydroxyapatite, an important mineral constituent of bones, and that has symbol Ca. 
ANSWER:  
calcium 
 [or  
Ca 
 until it is read] 
066-13-90-03112 
13. An example of these types of books was written by Benvenuto Cellini and describes the conjuring of 
devils in the Coliseum. In an American of these books, the author urges “frugality” and “industry,” telling 
readers to “lose no time.” Famous examples include one written by Benjamin Franklin, in which he 
describes his “thirteen virtues,” and a text called  
Confessions 
 by St. Augustine. For 10 points, name this 
type of book in which a person writes about his or her own life. 
ANSWER:  
autobiography 
 [prompt on  
biography 
] 
052-13-90-03113 
14. The letter c is appended to the name of this function when it is divided by x. When solving a triangle, 
the ambiguous case arises because this function isn't one-to-one. In triangles, this function of an angle, 
divided by the side opposite the angle, is constant. The y-coordinate of the unit circle is this function of the 
angle. This function of pi over two radians, or ninety degrees, is one. For 10 points, name this odd function 
defined in right triangles as opposite over hypotenuse. 
ANSWER:  
sin 
e 
190-13-90-03114 
15. This story’s protagonist hears the voice of General Lasalle as it ends, and it begins with him 
remembering “the dread sentence of death.” This story ends with the narrator about to fall into a chasm 
only to be saved when the French Army takes Toledo. The narrator is bound to a wooden board with one of 
the two title objects swinging above him and slowly descending. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe 
story about a prisoner of the Spanish Inquisition. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Pit and the Pendulum 
\" 
052-13-90-03115 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 3 
Directed Round 
1A.  What opera by Ruggero Leoncavallo about a troup of clowns includes the aria “Vesti la giubba?” 
ANSWER:  
Pagliacci 
1B.  Which polio-stricken Israeli violinist played the theme for  
Schindler's List 
? 
ANSWER: Itzhak  
Perlman 
2A.  What James Joyce collection includes short stories about the Irish middle class such as “Araby” and 
“The Dead?” 
ANSWER:  
Dubliners 
2B.  What British scientist wrote about sexual selection in his  
The Descent of Man 
 and is buried in 
Westminster Abbey? 
ANSWER: Charles  
Darwin 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What are the roots of “  squared minus 8   plus 7?” 
x x 
ANSWER: x=  and x=  [in either order] 
1 7 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If a square is inscribed in a circle of radius 6, what is the 
arclength between two adjacent vertices of the square? 
ANSWER:  
3 pi 
 [or  
three times pi 
] 
4A.  What river is the longest entirely within Massachusetts, had a marshy area known as the Back Bay, 
and flows through Boston? 
ANSWER:  
Charles 
 River 
4B.  What very thin blood vessels connect arterioles to venuoles and are the site of gas exchange with 
surrounding tissue? 
ANSWER:  
capillaries 
5A.  What English king of Wessex in the 800’s was known as the “great” for his legal and cultural 
reforms? 
ANSWER:  
Alfred 
 the Great 
5B.  What functional group consists of a hydrocarbon chain with at least one double bond between two 
carbons? 
ANSWER:  
alkene 
s [do not accept “alkanes” or “alkynes”] 
6A.  What terrorist event lasted for 444 days and ended when Ronald Reagan was inaugurated on January 
20, 1981? 
ANSWER:  
Iran Hostage Crisis 
6B.  What is the neuter singular nominate form of the German article? 
ANSWER:  
das 
7A.  What Greek letter is used to represent the summation of a series? 
ANSWER: upper-case  
sigma 
7B.  In 2011, Christine Lagarde replaced Frenchman Dominique Strauss-Kahn as the head of what 
intergovernmental financial organization? 
ANSWER:  
International Monetary Fund 
 [or  
IMF 
] 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  4 of 9 
8A.  What play written by Edward Albee sees George and Martha treat Nick and Honey to bizarre games 
like “Humiliate the Host” and “Get the Guests\"? 
ANSWER:  
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
8B.  What European country attempted to boost its grain production with the Virgin Lands Campaign in 
1953, a plan partially organized by editors of  
Pravda 
? 
ANSWER:  
Soviet Union 
 [or  
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
; or  
USSR 
; prompt on  
Russia 
] 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the only value between pi over two and five pi over 
two for which the equation \"cosine squared x plus 4 cosine x plus 3 equals zero\" is satisfied? 
ANSWER:  
pi 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If there are two blue marbles in an urn of five all together, 
what is the probability of drawing at least one blue after two draws without replacement? 
ANSWER:  
seven-tenths 
 [or  
70% 
; or 0 ] 
.7 
10A.  What book by Boccaccio (boh-KAH-chee-oh) includes the tale of Patient Griselda in its one hundred 
stories, told by a group of Florentines escaping the Black Death? 
ANSWER:  
The  Decameron 
 [or  
Il  Decameron 
] 
10B.  What stuff makes up nearly 80% of the universe's mass but is very difficult to observe? 
ANSWER:  
dark matter 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 3 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. These are the smallest particles for which TMS is used to calibrate their namesake type of NMR 
spectroscopy. The Standard Model explains why these particles when free will not decay through the 
conservation of baryon number. These particles make up about 90 percent of all cosmic rays. These 
baryons are composed of two up quarks and one down quark. For 10 points, identify these positively 
charged particles, found with neutrons in the atomic nucleus. 
ANSWER:  
proton 
s 
233-13-90-03117 
2. This island’s “Yala National Park” contains many animals, including its namesake leopard. This island 
was once connected to the mainland by “Adam’s Bridge,” a formation also known as “Rama’s Bridge.” It 
contains a fort built by the Dutch on the Jaffna peninsula. This location is separated from the mainland by 
the Palk Strait and many Tamils live in its largest city, Colombo. For 10 points, name this island off the 
southern coast of Indian that was once known as Ceylon. 
ANSWER:  
Sri Lanka 
 [or  
Ceylon 
 until it is read] 
052-13-90-03118 
3. This character notes that his friend “jests at scars that never felt a wound” and wishes he was a glove 
upon his lover’s hand. This character is the addressee of a speech about the fairy’s midwife, Queen Mab. 
Friar John is detained from giving this character a note, which causes him to kill Paris and take an 
apothecary’s poison while in his lover’s “crypt”. For 10 points, name this friend of Benvolio and 
Mercutio, a Montague “star-cross’d” lover of Juliet. 
ANSWER:  
Romeo 
 Montague 
190-13-90-03119 
4. In one poem, this author wrote that he “wander’d in a forest thoughtlessly” before happening upon 
Cupid and Psyche. This poet coined the phrase “tender is the night” and wondered, “Fled is that music:-- 
Do I wake or sleep?” in another of his poems written in 1819. That year, he averred that “Beauty is truth, 
truth beauty” at the end of an ode addressed to a “still unravish’d bride of quietness”. For 10 points, name 
this author of odes about a nightingale and a Grecian urn. 
ANSWER: John  
Keats 
190-13-90-03120 
5. The velocity of a bullet can be found with a ballistic one of these devices. The period of one of these 
equals two pi times the square root of L over g. For small angles, they approximate simple harmonic 
motion. One of these devices to demonstrate the earth's rotation by Jean Foucault. For 10 points, name this 
device that consists of a weight suspended on a string. 
ANSWER:  
pendulum 
185-13-90-03121 
6. In the first of his  
Plays Pleasant 
, this author wrote about the Swiss man Bluntschli, who seeks refuge in 
the home of Bulgarian war hero during the Serbo-Bulgarian War. This author created a Greek scholar 
named Adolphe Cusins who inherits a munitions company from Andrew Undershaft. In his best-known 
play, Colonel Pickering bets Henry Higgins that Eliza cannot become a woman of manners. For 10 points, 
name this Irish dramatist of  
Arms and the Man Major Barbara 
,  , and  
Pygmalion 
. 
ANSWER: George Bernard  
Shaw 
190-13-90-03122 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  6 of 9 
7. Future Canadian Prime Minister Lester Pearson won a Nobel Peace Prize for defusing a crisis in this 
country. It was the home of the Free Officers Movement’s coup in 1952, which resulted in Muhammad 
Naguib becoming leader and the dissolution of the Wafd Party. With Syria, this country formed the United 
Arab Republic and with Israel, it attended the Camp David Accords. For 10 points, name this African 
country, the site of the Aswan High Dam, where President Gamal Nasser nationalized the Suez Canal. 
ANSWER:  
Egypt 
 [or  
Egyptian 
 Republic] 
052-13-90-03123 
8. In 2011, President Obama sent this man on a diplomatic mission to Sudan, in which he proposed a 
peaceful implementation of South Sudan’s independence referendum in exchange for removing Sudan 
from the list of state sponsors of terrorism. He was attacked in the controversial \"swiftboat ads\" which 
questioned his service record in the Vietnam War, eight years before he was nominated to replace Hillary 
Clinton. For 10 points, name this current U.S. Secretary of State. 
ANSWER: John  
Kerry 
030-13-90-03124 
9. A precursor to the use of these substances was made widespread by Edward Jenner, who used an 
organism that names these substances. One discredited theory linked the use of these items to autism. These 
items can use an attenuated pathogen or its components in order to stimulate the immune system, allowing 
it to recognize future infections from that pathogen. For 10 points, name this immunological substance that 
is given to patients to confer immunity to a disease. 
ANSWER:  
vaccine 
s 
140-13-90-03125 
10. This man secretly became engaged to Lucy Hale, and his alleged last words were, \"Useless, useless.\" 
He organized meetings at a boarding house owned by Mary Surratt. His broken leg was healed by Dr. 
Samuel Mudd. This man's brother Edwin was probably the most well-known actor in America on the day 
this man shouted \"Sic semper tyrannis\" at a performance of  
Our American Cousin. 
 For 10 points, name this 
sympathizer of the Confederates who, on April 14, 1865, shot President Abraham Lincoln. 
ANSWER: John Wilkes  
Booth 
190-13-90-03126 
11. The Nernst equation gives the potential of a SHE cell as “E-nought minus 2.303 RT over F”, times this 
quantity. When this quantity is greater than the pKa, the predominant components of the solution will be 
deprotonated as a consequence of the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation. It equals the negative log of 
hydronium ion concentration and is seven for neutral solutions. For 10 points, name this measurement of 
acidity. 
ANSWER:  
pH 
 [or  
potential of hydrogen 
] 
190-13-90-03127 
12. One line in this song states that the singers have got \"that devilish flow, rock and roll, no halo.\" In the 
music video for this song, the two singers wake up from 28-day-long comas in a hospital. This song's 
chorus includes lines such as \"everybody just have a good time\" and \"we gon' make you lose your mind.\" 
Notable moments in this song include a pause before the line \"everyday I'm shufflin.\" For 10 points, 
identify this song by the band that sang \"Yes,\" LMFAO. 
ANSWER: \" 
Party Rock Anthem 
\" 
126-13-90-03128 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  7 of 9 
13. In this story, one character praises his wife for her beef stew while she daydreams about the fancy life. 
Another character in this story is elated at first after receiving an invitation to a ball held by the Ministry of 
Education. The protagonist of this story visits Madame Forestier (for-EST-ee-ay) in order to borrow the 
title object. For 10 points, name this short story in which Mathilde replaces the title piece of fake jewelry, 
written by Guy de Maupassant (GEE duh MOH-puh-sahnt). 
ANSWER: \"The  
Necklace 
\" [or \"La  
Parure 
\"] 
227-13-90-03129 
14. A 1936 experiment linked this phenomenon to perception of the autokinetic effect. Floyd Allport 
recorded how late workers were to their jobs to formulate his J-curve theory of this phenomenon. Groups of 
“confederates” tasked with matching line lengths on cards were used in an experiment on this behavior by 
Solomon Asch. It is related to compliance and obedience, and results from groupthink. For 10 points, 
identify this behavior in which individuals try to fit into a group norm. 
ANSWER:  
conformity 
232-13-90-03130 
15. The top left of this painting contains a rectangular metal bar. The objects in this painting are broken up 
into small rectangular pieces in a followup \"Disintegration\" of this painting. A fly and ants can be seen in 
the leftmost of this painting, consuming a metal object. One of the four timepieces in this painting is draped 
over a tree in the left background. For 10 points, name this painting by Salvador Dali that shows three 
melting clocks in a dream world. 
ANSWER:  
The  Persistence of Memory 
 [or  
La  Persistencia de Memoria 
] 
135-13-90-03131 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 3 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. FDR said that it takes a crook to catch a crook after tapping one member of this family to be the first 
head of the SEC; that man ordered a lobotomy of his daughter Rosemary. Another man from this family 
fled the scene of a car crash that killed Mary Jo Kopechne at Chappaquiddick. The most famous member of 
this family was President during the Bay of Pigs invasion and the Cuban Missile Crisis. For 10 points, 
identify this last name shared by Massachusetts senator Ted and the assassinated John F. 
ANSWER:  
Kennedy 
 [accept specific Kennedys like  
JFK 
] 
233-13-90-03132 
2. The LZW method for this procedure improved upon one which creates prefix codes based on the 
frequency of symbols being used. Huffman coding is one method of this process, while a more facile 
approach represents “runs” of data with a single character and number. When this procedure retains all the 
original data, it is called lossless. For 10 points, name this process which shrinks the number of bits 
required to encode information. 
ANSWER: data  
compression 
190-13-90-03133 
3. This man has been frequently portrayed in a one man show by Hal Holbrook. At Epcot, animatronic 
versions of this man and Benjamin Franklin host the presentation called “We, the People.” This man is the 
namesake of a prize given by the Kennedy Center for American Humor. In  
It’s a Wonderful Life 
, Clarence 
gives a book by this man as a gift to George Bailey. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Innocents 
Abroad 
 and  
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. 
ANSWER: Mark  
Twain 
 [or Samuel  
Clemens 
] 
030-13-90-03134 
4. This theory utilizes a factor of one over the square root of one minus beta squared; that quantity is known 
as the Lorentz factor. Applicable to only inertial reference frames, the twin paradox is a consequence of its 
prediction of time dilation. It also predicts the equivalence of mass and energy; namely that E equals m 
c-squared. For 10 points, name this theory developed by Albert Einstein, which is often contrasted with its 
more general form. 
ANSWER:  
special relativity 
 [prompt on  
relativity 
; do not accept “general relativity”] 
226-13-90-03135 
5. This author wrote a “study in temperament” about a boy who steals a thousand dollars for a glorious 
week in New York City before jumping in front of a train. Joseph Vaillant and Jean Marie Latour establish 
a church in New Mexico in one of this author’s novels. In the final entry of this author’s “Prairie Trilogy,” 
Jim Burden reminisces about his childhood with the Bohemian Shimerda family. For 10 points, name this 
regionalist author of  
Death Comes for the Archbishop 
 and  
My Antonia. 
ANSWER: Willa  
Cather 
190-13-90-03136 
What type of animal was the eight-legged Sleipnir in Norse mythology? 
ANSWER:  
horse 
This is a calculation question. Given that sine of 20 degrees is x, find cosine of 110 degrees in terms of x. 
ANSWER:  
negative x 
 [or  
minus x 
; do not prompt on \"x\"] 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     3     Page  9 of 9 
