NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 TOSSUPS  
1. Threats to reveal extramarital affairs of Wendell Wilkie were used to counter revelations abou  
this man's relationship with Russian mystic Nicholas Roerich. While serving in the Cabinet, this  
man formulated legislation that was ultimately ruled unconstitutional in  United States v. Butler   ; 
that law written by him paid farmers subsidies to destroy livestock and reduce crop production,  
and was the Agricultural Adjustment Act. After serving as Secretary of Commerce, this  
politician edited  The New Republic  and was nominated for president by the Progressive Party.  
For 10 points, name this politician from Iowa who served as Franklin Roosevelt’s second vice  
president.  
ANSWER: Henry Agard  Wallace   
2. Most sites of the Neolithic Capsian culture are located in the south of this present-day country.  
Sicilian immigrants built the port of La Goletta in this country's capital, which is home to the  
Cathedral of St. Vincent de Paul. Villagers live in traditional \"troglodyte\" structures in this  
country's southern tourist destination of Matmata. The central thoroughfare of this country's  
capital, the Avenue Habib Bourguiba, is named for its first president, and its coastal city of  
Monastir was the site of 2010 Jasmine Revolution protests. A suburb of this country's capital was  
legendarily sown with salt. For 10 points, name this North African country where Carthage was  
located.  
ANSWER:  Tunisia n Republic [or al-Jumhuriyyah at- Tunisiyyah ]  
3. One statue of this character was discovered in the villa of Gaius Cassius Longinus and  
exemplifies the \"Citharede\" depiction. The Louvre contains a depiction of the \"Mantua\" type of  
this character originally created by Polykleitos. The pose of one sculpture of this character was  
copied by Joshua Reynolds in his portrait of the Viscount Keppel and by Antonio Canova in his  
depiction of Perseus; that sculpture, in which this god extends his left arm with a cloak draped  
over his shoulders, was created by Leochares and was displayed by Pope Julius II in a namesake  
courtyard. For 10 points, name this god who, in a Roman copy of a Praxiteles sculpture, kills a  
lizard, and who appears in a sculpture nicknamed  Belvedere  having just slain Python.  
ANSWER:  Apollo   
4. This thinker used the example of Jean Calas as evidence that all men should be brothers in his  
Treatise on Toleration.  Historiographers credit this thinker's  Essay on the Universal History, the  
Manners, and the Spirit of the Nations  for the study of social history. This man frequently used  
the phrase \"Crush the infamy.\" He popularized the myth of Newton’s apple and also fought for  
inoculation in his  Philosophical Letters on the English.  He wrote that, “If God did not exist, it  
would be necessary to invent him.” This author of a  Philosophical Dictionary  satirized theodicy  
in a book rationalizing that we \"must cultivate our garden.\" For 10 points, name this  
Enlightenment wit who wrote  Candide.   
ANSWER:  Voltaire  [or Francois-Marie  Arouet ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 TOSSUPS  
5. One painter from this movement produced a poster based on the Last Supper with himself in  
place of Jesus, and produced a parody titled  Cardinal and Nun.  The official magazine of this  
movement,  Ver Sacrum,  was illustrated by its co-founder Koloman Moser. One of this  
movement's exhibitions featured a painting in which a gigantic furry brown monster represents  
Typhon. Oskar Kokoschka learned from the leaders of this movement, possibly absorbing the  
disturbingly erotic output of Egon Schiele. Its leader liberally used gold-leaf in paintings such as  
Danae  and his mosaic-like depiction of an embracing couple. For 10 points, name this movement  
led by  The Kiss  painter Gustav Klimt that consisted of deviants from the status quo of Austrian  
art.  
ANSWER:  Vienna Secession  [or  Wiener Secession ; or  Union of Austrian Artists ; or  
Vereinigung Bildender Kunstler Osterreichs]  
6. The map between a finite group acting on a set big S over the stabilizer of small s, in big S, to  
the orbit of small s has this property. If a function of this kind is also homomorphic, it is called  
an isomorphism. If a function of this kind exists between two sets, they have the same  
cardinality, which is often used to prove they have the same number of elements. When a  
function of this type is applied to its own set, the permutation results. For any map from a set X  
to Y with this property, there must exist an inverse that additionally has this property. For 10  
points, name this kind of function where every value in the domain has a unique, corresponding  
value in the range and vice versa, making it both injective and surjective.  
ANSWER:  bijective  function [or  bijection ; or  one-to-one correspondent ; or word forms of the  
preceding; or  one-to-one and onto ; do not accept \"one-to-one\" or \"onto\" or \"injective\" or  
\"surjective\"]  
7. A story by this author opens with a plane landing in a cornfield and centers on Francis Weed’s  
love for a babysitter. Another of his stories is set on the sort of midsummer day when everyone  
says, “I drank too much.” In a story by this author, a secretary forces her former boss to put his  
face in the dirt after pulling a gun on him on the train. This author created the town of Shady  
Hill, and he wrote a story in which Irene Wescott learns her neighbors are secretly miserable by  
listening to them with the title device. Another of his stories ends with a man reaching his locked  
and empty house after traveling home on the “Lucinda River.” For 10 points, name this author of  
“The Enormous Radio” who wrote about Neddy Merrill in “The Swimmer.”  
ANSWER: John  Cheever   
8. The Darwin term in this system's Hamiltonian corrects its energy from the effect of  
zitterbewegung. Lamb and Retherford demonstrated a roughly 1 gigahertz energy difference in  
supposedly degenerate solutions to this system. This system's wavefunction consists of a  
spherical harmonic multiplied by a Laguerre polynomial. The fine structure constant was first  
identified from the splitting in this system's spectral lines. An empirical equation modelling this  
system noted that its emission spectrum was quantized by the reciprocal of perfect squares. The  
Balmer series arises from this system according to the Rydberg equation, which models only it.  
This two-body system can be solved exactly by the Schrodinger equation. For 10 points, name  
this system containing a proton and an electron.  
ANSWER:  hydrogen  atom [or  hydrogen-like  atoms] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 TOSSUPS  
9. In a play by this author, an artillery officer locks up a piano after his wife plays “The Entry of  
the Boyars.” One of his characters is able to sense the collapse of a building because he is a  
Sunday child, and later meets a parrot-like madwoman. In another play by this author, a man  
makes up a story about seeing a woman outside a “Turkish pavilion” and attempting to commit  
suicide in an oat bin. One play by this author is partly set in Fingal's Cave and is about the  
daughter of Indra, while in another of his plays, two characters decide to open a hotel in  
Switzerland and a finch’s head is cut off by the valet Jean. For 10 points, name this author of  The  
Ghost Sonata, A Dream Play,  and  Miss Julie,  a Swedish playwright.  
ANSWER: August  Strindberg   
10. In mice, a process of this name occurs separately to the Igf2 and Igf2 receptor genes, which  
lends support to the \"conflict\" hypothesis about it. The p arm of chromosome 11 and q arm of  
chromosome 15 are major regions where genes undergo that process, causing various syndromes  
like Beckwith-Wiedemann, Angel, and Prader-Willi syndromes. That process of this name  
involves the expression of only an allele inherited from one parent. The reverse form of another  
process by this name, in which people in close proximity with each other during the early years  
tend not to be sexually attracted to each other, is known as the Westermarck Effect. That process  
was observed in migratory birds and geese that regarded Konrad Lorenz as a mother. For 10  
points, name this kind of learning based on certain stimuli which is independent of behavior.  
ANSWER: genomic  imprinting   
11. In response to one of these events, albeit decades later, Laurence James Downey hijacked  
Aer Lingus Flight 164 in 1981 and demanded information be released about it. Mayor Artur  
Santos tried to cover up one of these events, which culminated in the sun appearing to \"zig-zag\"  
in the air. The \"three secrets\" revealed at one of these events may have predicted the beginning  
of World War II and an attempted assassination carried out by the Grey Wolves in 1981 at St.  
Peter's Square. Witnesses to these events included the peasant Bernadette Soubirous and a native  
named Juan Diego. These events reportedly occurred in 1531 in Mexico City, in 1917 in Fatima,  
Portugal, and in 1858 at what became the shrine at Lourdes, France. For 10 points, name these  
events in Catholic lore involving a holy woman appearing as an apparition.  
ANSWER: appearances by the  Virgin  Mary [or  Marian  apparitions; accept descriptions; prompt  
on appearances by  Our Lady ]  
12. The shortest of these pieces by this composer, despite being in F major, includes a loud  
unison on C sharp in its finale. That piece in this set contains the only third movement minuet of  
the group, and features woodwind accompaniment imitating a metronome. The second  
movement of another piece in this set, which has 12/8 meter in the key of B-flat major, features  
two divided muted solo cellos depicting the gentle flowing of water. The finale of the last one  
includes a 6/8 march \"in the Turkish style.\" The five-movement sixth piece in this set begins by  
depicting the \"awakening of cheerful feelings upon arrival in the countryside.\" For 10 points,  
name these nine pieces, the last of which includes a choral setting of Schiller's \"Ode to Joy.\"  
ANSWER: Ludvig van  Beethoven's symphonies  [or  symphonies  by  Beethoven ; prompt on  
partial answer] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 TOSSUPS  
13. Leo Strauss accused this thinker of nihilism for claiming that \"the individual has to decide  
which is God for him and which is the devil.\" At the end of an essay, this writer predicted a  
\"polar night of icy darkness and hardness.\" This social scientist argued that a \"polytheism of  
values\" forced empirical academic research to be \"value-free,\" and defined modernity as  
\"rationalization\" and \"disenchantment.\" This thinker described the ideal type of \"modern  
officialdom\" in his essay on bureaucracy, whose form of authority differed greatly from his  
description of charismatic leadership. For 10 points, name this author of  Science as a Vocation,  a  
German social theorist who defined the state as an entity with a monopoly on legitimate violence  
in  Politics as a Vocation.   
ANSWER: Max  Weber   
14. This woman's love affairs in a cornfield are described by the line \"How loose the silk. How  
fine and loose and free.\" A picture of this woman in a newspaper draws the objection \"That ain't  
her mouth\" from a male acquaintance. In a controversial passage, several men engage in  
bestiality while waiting for her to choose one of them. This woman bore sons named Howard  
and Buglar while married to Halle. A malicious schoolteacher steals breast milk from this  
woman, who is helped to give birth in a boat by a white girl named Amy. This fugitive from  
Sweet Home plantation reunites with Paul D at a house called 124 in Ohio. For 10 points, name  
this mother of Denver, who sawed the throat of her baby in the backstory to Toni Morrison's  
Beloved.   
ANSWER:  Sethe  Suggs [prompt on  Suggs ]  
15. Prior to this event, three diplomats were sent to the city of Clusium, but ended up killing one  
of the opposing representatives. Many people escaped to the nearby city of Caere prior to this  
event. This event was preceded by the Battle of the Allia and an evacuation to a fortress at Veii.  
In the aftermath of this event, the Volsci, Hernici, and Aequi all revolted. Some accounts of this  
event say Marcus Furius Camillus came to the rescue during this event, but he was probably  
unsuccessful. According to one story about this event, an attack up a cliffside against the temple  
of Carmentis was foiled when a bunch of geese began quacking. Livy recorded that the phrase  
\"vae victis\" was spoken by the perpetrator of this event after one side complained of improperly  
weighted scales during a ransom. For 10 points, identify this action which saw a bunch of Celts  
partially destroy a city in central Italy in the fourth century B.C.  
ANSWER:  390  B.C. Sack of  Rome  [or  387  B.C. Sack of  Rome ; or  Brennus 's Sack of  Rome ; or  
Sack of  Rome  by the  Gauls ; prompt on partial answer; do not accept descriptions including  
\"Visigoths,\" \"Vandals,\" \"Ostrogoths,\" or any other year]  
16. This thing was done at the  enkoimeterion  facility by sick followers of Asclepius at the holy  
site of Epidaurus in the hopes of receiving a vision. Before Aeneas's helmsman Palinurus falls  
overboard to his death, the gods force him to do this thing. To retain his eternal youth, Selene's  
lover Endymion did this thing continually. The Greek god of this deed worked with Thanatos to  
carry Sarpedon's corpse from the battlefield of Troy. Psyche first sees the face of Cupid by  
torchlight while he is doing this thing, which is personified by the father of Morpheus. For 10  
points, name this activity presided over by Hypnos.  
ANSWER:  sleep ing [or  rest ing; or  dream ing or receiving  vision s until \"receiving visions\" is  
read; prompt on  prayer  until \"force him to do this thing\" is read] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 TOSSUPS  
17. This character states that he saw \"one, two, three canoes\" instead of six canoes because he  
cannot count above three. This character attempts to entertain his companions by luring a bear  
onto a tree and shaking it. He stumps a character by asking why the God doesn’t kill the devil,  
and he once claims that Benamuckee created the world. This character is reunited with his father  
after battling a group of cannibals, and his footprint allows another character to become aware of  
his presence. He is taught the word “master” by a man who is stranded on an island. For 10  
points, name this character rescued by Robinson Crusoe.  
ANSWER:  Friday   
18. According to anti-Communist historian Karl Wittfogel, this material technology is the best  
metaphor for the Soviet Union's mode of domination, and its literal form enabled \"Oriental  
despotism\" in Chinese and Indian empires. Middle Eastern implements used in this process  
include the pole-like  shadoof  and a type of wheel called the noria. The baray system of the  
Khmer empire is thought to have served this function, which the Dujiangyan project exemplified  
in Warring States-era China. The Abbasids overcame geographic impediments to this process by  
improving upon Archimedes' screw. For 10 points, name this technology whose use in the Virgin  
Lands program depleted the Aral Sea, which is still used on Asian terraces to create dependable  
rice paddies.  
ANSWER:  irrigation  [or  hydraulic s; or  divert ing  water ; or  drainage ; or  water manage ment;  
or  aquaculture ; or controlled  flood ing of arable land; or creating  reservoir s; accept any answer  
indicating the controlled diversion of water from natural sources for human ends; accept  
hydraulic power  or  hydraulic despotism ; prompt on \"agriculture,\" \"farming,\" \"growing  
plants,\" \"saving water,\" \"storing water,\" \"pools,\" \"baths\", or \"lakes\"]  
19. The process at which superheated water in geysers is ejected upwards was first theorized and  
tested by this scientist. This chemist discovered that ferric oxide can be used to remove arsenic  
from water. This man’s laboratory assistant at the University of Heidelberg, Peter Desaga, was  
the one who actually built the working prototype of most famous invention. An award for  
advances in analytical spectroscopy is named for Gustav Kirchhoff and this man, with whom he  
discovered cesium and rubidium. This scientist also names a piece of lab equipment that has an  
adjustable valves at the top for air flow and at the bottom for gas flow. For 10 points, name this  
19th century German chemist who invented a device used to create an open flame, his namesake  
\"burner.\"  
ANSWER: Robert  Bunsen   
20. This man’s son was an official advisor on Africa, but was later accused of selling guns to  
Angola with Arcadi Gaydamak. This man worked for the Vichy regime until he noticed Nazi  
Germany would lose the war, after which he joined the Resistance under the codename  
\"Capitaine Morland.\" The first female prime minister of France, Edith Cresson, was appointed  
by this man. He ordered Operation Satanique, which led to the accidental death of Fernando  
Pereira, a Portuguese photographer. He lost his 1965 bid for the presidency against De Gaulle,  
and he was defeated in the 1974 election against d’Estaing. For 10 points, name this socialist  
president of France who ordered the bombing of the Rainbow Warrior, the left-wing half of the  
cohabitation along with Jacques Chirac.  
ANSWER: Francois  Mitterrand 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 TOSSUPS  
21. One of this author’s plays opens with a scene in which a man tells his wife that she went to  
Geneva without her passport. In that play by him, Charlotte annoys her playwright husband by  
supporting a soldier imprisoned for burning a wreath. One character created by this author  
declares sex to be \"the attraction Newton left out\" and models a fractal created by a girl who died  
in a fire on her 17th birthday. In one play by this author of  The Real Thing,  grouse-hunting  
records reveal that Lord Byron never shot a poet at Sidley Park, and Hannah Jarvis attempts to  
identify a mysterious \"hermit.\" For 10 points, name this playwright who created Thomasina  
Coverley in  Arcadia.   
ANSWER: Tom  Stoppard   
22. During this event, Michael Mallin's position at St. Stephen's Green became unusable after  
snipers and machine guns were placed in the Shelbourne Hotel. 15 leaders of this event were  
executed by firing squad at Killinghaim Gaol. James Connolly led the Citizen Army during this  
event, while the Volunteers were led by Patrick Pearse. An arms shipment from Germany that  
was to be given to a side in this uprising was broken up after Roger Casement was captured. For  
10 points, name this 1916 uprising in Ireland that took place the week after a major April  
holiday.  
ANSWER:  Easter  Rising [or equivalents, such as the  Easter  Uprising or the  Easter  Rebellion;  
or  Eiri Amach na Casca ]  
23. For an ideal gas, this quantity is equal to one over the temperature, and this quantity is  
multiplied by the bulk modulus and divided by the product of heat capacity and density in the  
definition of the Gruneisen parameter. This quantity is near zero for a single phase alloy of 36%  
nickel and 64% iron, called Invar. This quantity is almost zero for a material used to make really  
smooth mirrors, called fused quartz, and for borosilicate glass, which is why pyrex is used in  
laboratory settings. Converting between volumetric and linear versions of this quantity usually  
involves multiplying by 3, and those versions of this quantity are symbolized beta and alpha,  
respectively. For 10 points, name this, which gives the change in length of a one-dimensional rod  
in response to a change in temperature.  
ANSWER: coefficient of  thermal expansion  [prompt on  alpha ; prompt on  beta ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 BONUSES  
1. In one of this author’s novels, Jem Casey recites a poem claiming that “a pint of plain is your  
only man.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Irish author of a novel in which characters rebel against their author,  At Swim- 
Two-Birds.   
ANSWER: Flann  O’Brien  [or Brian  O’Nolan ]  
[10] In  At Swim-Two-Birds,  this figure appears as an old man who relates the story of King  
Sweeney. This Irish hero was the subject of some poems that James Macpherson attributed to his  
son, the poet Ossian.  
ANSWER:  Finn  McCool [or  Fionn  mac Cumhhaill; or  Deimne ]  
[10] O’Brien also wrote a novel in which two people of this profession believe that humans  
become bicycles by riding them. Shakespeare created a man with this job named Dogberry who  
instructs, “forget not that I am an ass.\"  
ANSWER:  police man [or  constable ; or obvious equivalents]  
2. According to Pliny the Elder, these people used an anachitis, or stone of necessity, to conjure  
spirits from water. For 10 points each:  
[10] Give this Latin-language term for Zoroastrian priests. They may have been the three wise  
men that brought gifts to the infant Jesus, who are also known by this name.  
ANSWER:  magi  [or  magus ian; or  manji ]  
[10] Zoroastrian priests maintain these places of worship, which are more numerous in India than  
anywhere else in the world.  
ANSWER:  fire temple s [or anything with the word  atash  in it]  
[10] Modern priests no longer have to collect the material to create  barsoms,  which are these  
kinds of implements that are used in Zoroastrian rituals, such as recitation of different parts of  
the  Avesta.  
ANSWER:   bundle of rod s [or  bundle of twig s; or  bundle of stick s; prompt on individual  rod s,  
twig s, or  stick s]  
3. This novel features Luigi and Angelo Capello, two Italian twins who are almost identical. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name this novel in which the white Tom Chambers and the 1/32nd black “Chambers” are  
switched as youths, a deception exposed by the title lawyer, who also uses fingerprints to prove  
the fake Tom is a murderer.  
ANSWER:  Pudd’nhead Wilson   
[10]  Pudd’nhead Wilson  is by this author, who also created Tom Sawyer.  
ANSWER: Mark  Twain  [or Samuel Langhorne  Clemens ]  
[10] David Wilson gets the nickname “Pudd’nhead” after he makes an ill-advised comment  
about wishing he owned “half” of what thing, so he could kill his half?  
ANSWER: a  dog 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 BONUSES  
4. Examples of these heavy ships, which displaced the carrack in the 16th century, included the  
vessels which brought goods along a Spanish colonial trade route to Manila. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these huge ships with square-rigged sails, which made up most of the Spanish  
Armada and the English naval opposition thereto.  
ANSWER:  galleon s [prompt on \"man o'war\"]  
[10] This king of Spain sent the galleons of the Spanish Armada against England, only to hear  
that they were wrecked by a \"Protestant wind\" and by Francis Drake.  
ANSWER:  Philip II  Habsburg [or  Felipe II ]  
[10] Pre-industrial naval warfare included this type of cannon strike, in which all the artillery  
along the length of a boat was fired at once.  
ANSWER:  broadside  fire  
5. Answer the following about the Book of Mormon, for 10 points each.  
[10] Mormons believe that these objects originally had the Book of Mormon written on them in  
Reformed Egyptian, before Joseph Smith translated these objects using \"seeing stones.\"  
ANSWER: the  golden plates   
[10] This son of Lehi names four books within the Book of Mormon, including the first two. His  
descendants, such as the character Mormon himself, were destroyed at Hill Cumorah.  
ANSWER:  Nephi  [those people were the Nephites]  
[10] This five-word phrase opens over twenty percent of the verses in the Book of Mormon. In  
the King James Bible, this phrase is often used to translate the Hebrew word \"vayehi.\"  
ANSWER: \" And it came to pass ...\"  
6. These things are classified as polar or tropical and continental or marine, based on their source  
region. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these homogenous bodies of air that are separated by fronts.  
ANSWER:  air mass es  
[10] The most common type of this front occurs when a cold front overtakes a warm front. On  
weather maps, it is designated by a solid purple line or by a line with alternating semicircles and  
triangles.  
ANSWER:  occluded  front [or cold  occlusion ; or  TROWAL ; or  trough of warm air aloft ; do  
not accept \"warm occlusion\"]  
[10] These clouds, along with cumulus congestus and cumulonimbus clouds, are characteristic of  
an occluded front. These dark, low-level clouds produce precipitation.  
ANSWER:  nimbostratus  [or  Nb ; prompt on “stratus”] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 BONUSES  
7. Name these composers who wrote music in reaction to the death of world leaders, for 10  
points each.  
[10] This Russian expatriate composed an  Elegy for J.F.K.  a whole half century after premiering  
The Rite of Spring.   
ANSWER: Igor Fyodorovich  Stravinsky   
[10] A funeral march for the executed Emperor Maximilian of Mexico appears in the last volume  
of this composer's  Years of Pilgrimage.  This composer, who is credited with inventing the  
symphonic poem, transcribed all of Beethoven's symphonies for piano.  
ANSWER: Franz Ritter von  Liszt   
[10] Immediately upon hearing of the passing of King George V, this man pulled an all-nighter  
to compose his  Trauermusik.  An orchestral work of his incorporates themes from an earlier  
composer's incidental music to  Turandot.   
ANSWER: Paul  Hindemith   
8. Razumikhin, this character's good-natured friend, marries his sister Dunya. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this character who murders a pawnbroker and her sister in Dostoevsky's  Crime and  
Punishment.   
ANSWER: Rodion Romanovich  Raskolnikov  [or  Rodion  Romanovich Raskolnikov; or  Rodya ]  
[10] Sonya eventually sways Raskolnikov to confess his crimes after reading him the story of  
this Biblical character, which inspires Raskolnikov to be redeemed.  
ANSWER:  Lazarus   
[10] Raskolnikov nearly doesn't confess when he finds out that this nihilist has committed  
suicide. This character attempted to rape Dunya while she worked for him.  
ANSWER: Arkady Ivanovich  Svidrigailov  [or  Arkady  Ivanovich Svidrigailov]  
9. \"Chunking\" can increase the capacity of this system, which is the second stage of the  
Atkinson-Shifflin three-stage model. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this system whose \"magic number\" is, according to George Miller, seven plus or  
minus two.  
ANSWER:  short-term memory  [or  working memory ; prompt on  memory ]  
[10] This condition does not affect short-term memory, since it is a disruption of long-term  
memory. Its \"anterograde\" form is an inability to consolidate new memories, and is \"retrograde\"  
form involves the loss of existing memories.  
ANSWER:  amnesia   
[10] This kind of long-term memory is extremely vivid due to the stress of the circumstances. An  
example is the memory someone has of where they were on September 11.  
ANSWER:  flashbulb  memory 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 BONUSES  
10. The plans for this building called for three segments: a cube that rotated once per year, a  
pyramid that rotated once per month, and a cylinder that would rotate once a day. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this building that was planned by its namesake Constructivist architect to be built in  
Petrograd after the Bolshevik revolution.  
ANSWER:  Tatlin's Tower  [or  Monument to the Third International ]  
[10] Tatlin's Tower was designed to be taller than this iron lattice tower in Paris, constructed in  
1889 on the Champ de Mars.  
ANSWER:  Eiffel  Tower  
[10] A model of Tatlin's Tower can be found in this intensely color-coded complex also in Paris,  
a collaborative complex designed by Richard Rogers and Renzo Piano named for a former  
president of France.  
ANSWER:  Pompidou Center  [or  Centre Pompidou ; or  Centre Georges Pompidou ]  
11. These electrical networks can include voltage sources, resistors, capacitors, and inductors.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Give the term for these connections of electrical elements. Kirchoff names two laws for  
solving them.  
ANSWER:  circuit s  
[10] This man names a theorem which states that for a collection of voltage sources and resistors,  
one can construct an equivalent circuit consisting of only one voltage source and one resistor.  
ANSWER: Léon Charles  Thévenin  [do not not accept \"Edward Lawry Norton\"]  
[10] One can find the Thévenin-equivalent resistance of a circuit by dividing this quantity by the  
short-circuit current.  
ANSWER:  open-circuit voltage  [prompt on  voltage ]  
12. This location was where Paul Ciancia killed Gerardo Hernandez with a point-blank shot to  
the chest. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this facility, where a government employee was killed on November 1, 2013, by  
Ciancia, who apparently wanted to shoot \"pigs.\"  
ANSWER:  Los Angeles International Airport  [or  LAX ]  
[10] Hernandez worked for this government agency, a part of the Homeland Security Department  
that conducts passenger screenings at airports.  
ANSWER:  Transportation Security Administration  [or  TSA ]  
[10] Current Homeland Security head Jeh Johnson controversially stated in 2011 that this man  
would have supported the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq because it reflected \"the dangerous  
unselfishness\" he promoted.  
ANSWER: Martin Luther  King  Jr. [or  MLK ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 BONUSES  
13. Identify the following data structures from computer science, for 10 points each.  
[10] This data structure is commonly used as a data buffer because the oldest entry is removed  
from it first. In other words, it is first-in first-out.  
ANSWER:  queue  [do not accept \"priority queue\"]  
[10] This self-balancing binary search tree is often compared to the AVL tree, but has a faster  
real-time bounded worst case performance for insertion and deletion. It's unique for including a  
color attribute for leafs.  
ANSWER:  red-black  tree  
[10] These bitmaps give a probabilistic representation of a set that supports membership queries.  
They do not allow false negatives, but false positives can occur if the hash function it uses is not  
well-spread.  
ANSWER:  Bloom filter   
14. Al-Mu’izz was determined to build this city to be more impressive than that other Muslim  
capital, Baghdad. For 10 points each,  
[10] Name this city which the Fatimids founded as their capital in 969 AD with the name al- 
Mansuriyah.  
ANSWER:  Cairo   
[10] Cairo supplanted this older nearby city as capital of the Egyptian province under the  
Umayyads. It was burned to keep it out of the hands of invading crusaders in 1168, and was  
absorbed into Old Cairo.  
ANSWER: Al- Fustat   
[10] During his rise to power, Mohammed Ali Pasha massacred many leaders of this state at the  
Cairo Citadel. Selim I had earlier defeated this state at the 1516 Battle of Marj Dabiq.  
ANSWER:  Mamluk s [or  Mamluk  dynasty; or  Mamluk  Sultanate; or  Mamluk  Egypt]  
15. This artificial structure effectively disconnects mainland Denmark from continental Europe.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this canal running from a namesake town on the Baltic Sea to the North Sea, which  
allows ships to bypass the Kattegat and Skagerrak.  
ANSWER:  Kiel  Canal  
[10] The Kiel canal is in this northernmost German state, whose ownership was contested in the  
nineteenth century.  
ANSWER:  Schleswig-Holstein  [prompt on partial answer]  
[10] Speakers of this language's \"North\" variant live on the western coat of Schleswig-Holstein.  
This Germanic language, also spoken on outlying islands of the Netherlands, has grammar very  
close to English.  
ANSWER: North  Frisian  language 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 BONUSES  
16. This painting was published with an essay by Carlos Bulosan, which stated, \"The America  
we hope to see is not merely a physical but also a spiritual and intellectual world.\" For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this painting that was part of a broader 1940s series by the artist. Also known as  The  
Thanksgiving Painting , it shows a family preparing to eat a sumptuous looking turkey.  
ANSWER:  Freedom from Want  [prompt on  Four Freedoms ]  
[10]  Freedom from Want  was part of the  Four Freedoms  series painted by this man, a frequent  
contributor to the  Saturday Evening Post  magazine.  
ANSWER: Norman  Rockwell   
[10] In 1967, Rockwell painted a room in a Russian example of these institutions. In his painting  
The Problem We All Live With , the black girl Ruby Bridges is walking to one of these places.  
ANSWER:  school s [or  class rooms]  
17. A routine walk to the tea-house in Berghof was deemed the ideal time to carry out an SOE- 
devised plan of this type named Operation Foxley. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this common goal of the Oster Conspiracy, Operation Spark, and the 20 July Plot, the  
latter of which was the intended precursor to Operation Valkyrie.  
ANSWER:  assassinating Hitler  [accept equivalents like  killing Hitler ; also accept  attempting  
to assassinate Hitler  or similar answers]  
[10] The highest profile Nazi to be linked to an assassination plot against Hitler was this \"Desert  
Fox\" who commanded forces in North Africa.  
ANSWER: Erwin  Rommel  [or Erwin Johannes Eugen  Rommel ]  
[10] No fewer than four plots against Hitler, including the famous July 20 one, were carried out  
at this location in Poland, Hitler's first Eastern Front military headquarters.  
ANSWER:  Wolf's Lair  [or  Wolfsschanze ]  
18.  Answer the following about the history of American polling, for 10 points each.  
[10] Elmo Roper and Paul Cherrington developed a 1935 survey for this business magazine,  
founded after the 1929 stock market crash by Henry Luce. Walker Evans served as its  
photography editor for twenty years.  
ANSWER:  Fortune   
[10] This coiner of the term \"stereotype\" and founder of  New Republic  expressed his reservations  
about surveys in the book  Public Opinion,  leading to a debate against John Dewey.  
ANSWER: Walter  Lippmann   
[10] This Iowa statistician's prediction that FDR would beat Landon in 1936 cemented the  
popularity of his namesake statistically-rigorous sampling poll.  
ANSWER: George  Gallup 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 2 BONUSES  
19. The results of this assay are typically reported as a dilution when it is performed on human  
serum. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this technique in which enzyme-conjugated antibodies are used to measure the  
amount of a particular antigen in a sample. It is typically carried out in a 96-well microtiter plate.  
ANSWER:  ELISA  [or  enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ]  
[10] ELISA is commonly used to diagnose this class of diseases, which occurs when the immune  
system attacks \"self\" antigens. Examples include Type I diabetes, multiple sclerosis, and  
rheumatoid arthritis.  
ANSWER:  autoimmune  diseases  
[10] This organ is responsible for removing self-reactive T-cells. Nude mice lack this organ.  
ANSWER:  thymus   
20. In one play by this author, Otto Hogan dresses up as a spirit called “The Mysterious  
Stranger” to stop the construction of a highway. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this author of  Beef, No Chicken  who wrote about the arrest of Makak in his most  
famous play.  
ANSWER: Derek  Walcott   
[10] In this early poem by Walcott, the speaker imagines a body “fallen from evil days, from evil  
times” and senses the “smell of dead limes” and the “leprosy of empires” at the title place.  
ANSWER: “ Ruins of a Great House ”  
[10] Walcott is best known for this Iliad-inspired epic in which Achille paints “In God we  
Troust” on his boat and sails to Africa.  
ANSWER:  Omeros   
21. The ship money tax was assessed on people living near the coast during this time period. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name this especially-despotic time period which began shortly after the murder of the Duke  
of Buckingham and ended with the calling of the Short Parliament.  
ANSWER: the  personal rule  of Charles I [or the  Eleven Years' Tyranny ; prompt on answers  
of  Charles I not consulting Parliament ]  
[10] Discontent over Charles I's personal rule was a major precipitating cause of this conflict,  
which ended with the monarch's trial and beheading.  
ANSWER:  English Civil War   
[10] This geriatric Archbishop of Canterbury rose to prominence during the personal rule. He  
initiated a reform that offended many Puritans and made them want to leave England.  
ANSWER: William  Laud 
