VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 3 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The text of the Monroe Doctrine was mainly authored by this man while he was Secretary of State. This 
man won an election that included William Crawford as a candidate. He is the only President to follow his 
time in office by serving in the House of Representatives. Henry Clay agreed to serve as the Secretary of 
State for this President, in return for swinging the election of 1824. For 10 points, name this man who used 
the \"Corrupt Bargain\" to defeat Andrew Jackson and was the first son of a President to hold the office. 
ANSWER: John  uincy  
Q Adams 
 [prompt on  
Adams 
; do not accept \"John Adams\"] 
023-13-96-03101 
2. A character in this opera insists, \"L'amour, l'amour t'attend\" in an aria beginning \"Votre toast.\" Act III of 
this opera takes place at a smuggler's camp in the mountains. In Act I of this opera, a worker in a cigarette 
factory throws a flower to her eventual lover, but explains that love is a \"rebellious bird\" in her Habanera 
(hah-bahn-AIR-uh) aria. This opera's most famous aria is sung by Escamillo (ess-cah-MEE-yoh), a toreador 
who wins the love of a Spanish gypsy. For 10 points, name this opera composed by Georges Bizet. 
ANSWER:  
Carmen 
190-13-96-03102 
3. This conflict saw the last sitting British monarch lead an army in battle, which occurred at Dettingen. 
The first major clash in this conflict occurred at the battle of Mollwitz. Frederick the Great had promised 
one side in this war neutrality if part of Silesia was given to Prussia, but that solution was rejected by a 
Hapsburg monarch. This war ended in 1748 with the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle (EYE-lah-shuh-PELL). For 
10 points, name this war sparked by the Pragmatic Sanction's elevation of Maria Theresa to the throne. 
ANSWER: War of the  
Austrian Succession 
230-13-96-03103 
4. A man in this novel is seen at night walking with a candle into an empty room to signal that food has 
been left for a convict. This novel's epilogue reveals that \"Vandaleur\" embezzled money in Costa Rica. 
This novel reveals that a butterfly-obsessed man named Jack Stapleton kidnapped his own wife and used 
phosphorus to evoke the frightening appearance of a legendary monster that supposedly killed Sir Charles 
in a moor. For 10 points, name this Sherlock Holmes novel whose culprit was not, in fact, the title dog. 
ANSWER:  
The  Hound of the Baskervilles 
020-13-96-03104 
5. A Middle Ages trade route in this country was changed in 1950 into a 210-mile scenic drive called the 
Romantic Road. This country's largest amusement park is called Europa-Park. The capital of this country is 
home to Museum Island, which includes the Pergamon Museum. This country was where one of the first 
cuckoo clocks was made; that occurred in its Black Forest. For 10 points, name this country that inspired 
Sleeping Beauty's Castle with its Bavarian Neuschwanstein (noish-VON-shtein) Castle. 
ANSWER: Federal Republic of  
Germany 
 [or Bundesrepublik  
Deutschland 
] 
023-13-96-03105 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  1 of 10 
6. The Chinese creator gods Fuxi (FOO-shee) and Nuwa are sometimes depicted with the body parts of 
these creatures. Cadmus and Harmonia took the form of these creatures at the end of their lives. Tiresias 
was turned into a woman upon attacking two of them mating. The caduceus depicts two of these animals, 
as does the rod of Asclepius. One of these animals resided at Delphi and was slain by Apollo. For 10 
points, name this animal, mythological ones of which include Python. 
ANSWER:  
snake 
s [or  
serpent 
s; or  
dragon 
s] 
140-13-96-03106 
7. Patients that have alkaptonuria excrete urine with this color. Manganese dioxide and silver sulfide are 
both this color. Rapidly water-cooled rhyolitic flows form a glass with this color. An astronomical object 
named for this color can be described by charge, mass, and spin according to the no-hair theorem. The 
gravity of that object is impossible to escape at sub-luminal speeds within the event horizon. For 10 points, 
identify this color which absorbs all light that shines upon it, unlike white. 
ANSWER:  
black 
 [or  
black 
 holes; or  
black 
 urine disease] 
239-13-96-03107 
8. A series of bombings in this country occurred during the \"Hot Summer\" and were triggered by the influx 
of \"retornados.\" The song \"And After the Farewell\" was the signal to begin a revolution in this country, 
which was led by the MFA and overthrew Marcelo Caetano. This country was led by Antonio Salazar's 
Estado Novo, and during its liberalization, its colonies in Mozambique and Goa achieved independence. 
For 10 points, name this country whose autonomous regions include Madeira and the Azores. 
ANSWER:  
Portugal 
048-13-96-03108 
9. This philosophical school was referred to as a \"new name for some old ways of thinking\" in a book 
written by the author of \"What is an Emotion?\" Many proponents of it were members of the Metaphysical 
Club. Texts written by proponents of this school include \"How to Make Our Ideas Clear,\"  
The Varieties of 
Religious Experience, 
 and  
Democracy and Education 
. For 10 points, name this philosophical school 
practiced by Charles Sanders Peirce (PURSE), William James, and John Dewey, which values practical 
action. 
ANSWER:  
pragmatism 
052-13-96-03109 
10. This character insults a \"miserable, tub-trading\" group of people as \"sniveling cowards with their 
longbows and black arrows.\" This character was wounded by Girion, a ruler of Dale, whom he then killed. 
Another character talks to this creature and calls him \"the Stupendous\" and \"the Unassessably Wealthy.\" At 
the end of a 2013 film, this creature, voiced by Benedict Cumberbatch, leaves Lonely Mountain and heads 
toward Lake Town. For 10 points, name this dragon whose \"Desolation\" subtitles the second movie in  
The 
Hobbit 
 series. 
ANSWER:  
Smaug 
023-13-96-03110 
11. A graph-searching method that implements one of these data structures minimizes the number of nodes 
visited, and is called breadth-first search. Circular buffers and linked lists are typically implemented using 
this type of data structure. Dijkstra's (DYKE-strah's) algorithm uses their priority type. A deque (DECK) is 
a double-ended one of these structures. They store data such that the first element inserted is the first 
element removed. For 10 points, name this data structure which resembles a ticketing line. 
ANSWER:  
queue 
190-13-96-03111 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  2 of 10 
12. Several characters in this play appear in a 2010 sequel by Bruce Norris. A character in this play 
entertains going into business with Bobo, and the role of Mrs. Johnson is eliminated in some stagings of 
this play. Karl Linder attempts to talk several characters against moving into Clybourne Park in this play, in 
which the Nigerian student Joseph Asagai is one of Beneatha's suitors. Walter dreams of owning a liquor 
store in this play. For 10 points, name this play about the travails of the Younger family, a work by 
Lorraine Hansberry. 
ANSWER:  
A  Raisin in the Sun 
030-13-96-03112 
13. This statement can be derived by applying Gauss's law to a spherical surface. One constant in this law is 
often rewritten as one over four pi times the permittivity of free space, and dividing it by charge gives the 
electric field of a point charge. The constant of proportionality for this statement is symbolized k, and its 
value is equal to nine times ten to the nine. It states that force is proportional to the inverse-square of 
distance. For 10 points, name this statement that gives the electrostatic force between two charges. 
ANSWER:  
Coulomb 
's law 
226-13-96-03113 
14. At the beginning of this novel, an old man spreads gossip about a young woman lying on the back of a 
reddleman's wagon, after which it is found that she ran away before her marriage. The marriage of Wildeve 
and Thomasin is facilitated early in this novel. The title character's mother dies of snakebite in this novel, 
followed soon by his wife Eustacia Vye, who drowns while trying to escape rural life. For 10 points, name 
this novel that describes Clym Yeobright’s arrival in his hometown of Egdon Heath, a work by Thomas 
Hardy. 
ANSWER:  
The  Return of the Native 
140-13-96-03114 
15. The competition for designing what became this monument was overseen by George Howe. This 
monument was built by the MacDonald Construction Company and used the Pittsburgh-Des Moines Steel 
Company for its stainless steel exterior. This monument was one of the first solo designs done by Finnish 
architect Eero Saarinen. Underneath this monument is the Museum of Westward Expansion. For 10 points, 
name this 630-foot tall and 630-foot wide catenary arch located next to the Mississippi River in St. Louis. 
ANSWER:  
Gateway 
 Arch 
023-13-96-03115 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 3 
Directed Round 
1A.  What American river runs past the city of Lake Havasu and through the Grand Canyon? 
ANSWER:  
Colorado 
 River 
1B.  What curve names a class of galaxies lying on the fork of Hubble's sequence and has a variety named 
for Archimedes? 
ANSWER:  
spiral 
2A.  In statistics, what name is given to the default hypothesis which states that no relationship exists 
between two measured variables and which the experimenter seeks to reject? 
ANSWER:  
null 
 hypothesis [or  
H naught 
; or  
H sub zero 
] 
2B.  What English chemist was the first to isolate oxygen, which he termed “dephlogisticated air”? 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Priestley 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What number is in the top-left corner of the inverse of the 
matrix whose first row is [4 5] and whose second row is [2 3]? 
ANSWER:  
1.5 
 [or  
3/2 
; or  
1 ½ 
] 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Convert the polar coordinates “r = 4, theta = 3 pi over 4” to 
rectangular coordinates. 
ANSWER: (  times the square  
-2 root 
 of  ,   times the square  
2 2 root 
 of  ) [or x =  
2 -2 root 2 
, y =  
2 root 2 
 ] 
4A.  What Pope was replaced by Pope Francis after stepping down in 2013? 
ANSWER:  
Benedict XVI 
 [or Joseph Aloisius  
Ratzinger 
; prompt on  
Benedict 
] 
4B.  What American singer-songwriter has recorded the hits \"Grenade,\" \"The Lazy Song,\" and \"Locked 
Out of Heaven\"? 
ANSWER: Bruno  
Mars 
5A.  What Swiss psychiatrist speculated about the existence of universal archetypes in what he called the 
\"collective unconscious?\" 
ANSWER: Carl  
Jung 
5B.  What early English novelist wrote  
Captain Singleton 
 and  
Moll Flanders? 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Defoe 
6A.  What difficult set of nineteen solo piano compositions by Franz Liszt incorporates elements of his 
native country’s music? 
ANSWER:  
Hungarian Rhapsodies 
6B.  What lengthy retreat across China was performed by Mao Zedong's Red Army from 1933 to 1935? 
ANSWER:  
Long March 
7A.  What mountain range that runs along the Mediterranean coast of Northern Africa has its highest point 
at Toubkal (toob-KAHL)? 
ANSWER:  
Atlas 
 Mountains 
7B.  What Shoshone (shuh-SHOW-nee) woman served as a translator and guide for the Lewis and Clark 
Expedition? 
ANSWER:  
Sacajawea 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  4 of 10 
8A.  What female impressionist painted  
The Child's Bath 
 and  
The Boating Party 
? 
ANSWER: Mary  
Cassatt 
8B.  In May of 2013, mayor Dave Bing announced that what American city was forced to declare 
bankruptcy? 
ANSWER:  
Detroit 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Two adjacent angles in a parallelogram have measures “x + 
20” degrees and “4x - 40” degrees. What is the measure of the larger angle? 
ANSWER:  
120 
 degrees 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A bag has ten ping pong balls in it, numbered one through ten 
inclusive. Three people each draw a ball from the bag without replacement. What is the probability that 
each of them drew an odd number? 
ANSWER:  
1/12 
10A.  What eighteenth-century British empiricist denied the existence of miracles in a section of his treatise 
An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding? 
ANSWER: David  
Hume 
10B.  What is the name given to the glass tube with a stopcock at the bottom that is used to dispense one 
solution into another during titration? 
ANSWER:  
burette 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 3 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. cAMP (CAMP) and a cyclic nucleotide with this nucleobase are important secondary messengers. A 
nucleoside triphosphate with this nucleobase is one of the outputs of the citric acid cycle; that triphosphate 
is converted to ATP by NDK. This purine has an oxygen attached to its pyrimidine ring. Three hydrogen 
bonds connect this nucleobase to cytosine. For 10 points, name this nucleobase represented with a G. 
ANSWER:  
guanine 
 [or   until it is read] 
G 
066-13-96-03117 
2. This disease was the subject of a scandal discussed in  
The Drum 
 and exposed by Peter Buxtun. A 1972 
expose by the  
Washington Star 
 discussed 399 men with this disease, which spurred the passage of the 
National Research Act of 1974 and the rise of institutional review boards. This disease was given to Macon 
County sharecroppers who were told they had \"bad blood\" and denied penicillin. For 10 points, name this 
disease, the subject of an unethical study on black men conducted at the Tuskegee Institute. 
ANSWER:  
syphillis 
019-13-96-03118 
3. Near the end of this novel, Sister Gudule (goo-DOOL) discovers that she is the mother of a woman about 
to be executed for murdering Captain Phoebus. A goat named Djali accompanies a major character in this 
novel. Claude Frollo raises this novel's title character and becomes obsessed with a gypsy named La 
Esmerelda. The title character of this novel is elected \"Pope of Fools\" at the beginning for being the ugliest 
person in Paris. For 10 points, name this Victor Hugo novel about Quasimodo, a bellringer in the title 
cathedral. 
ANSWER:  
The  Hunchback of Notre Dame 
 [or  
Notre-Dame de Paris 
] 
080-13-96-03119 
4. In a scene in this play, a character pulls the trigger of a gun which shoots an umbrella. Another character 
in this play claims that he married his wife due to her hysterical pregnancy. A character in this play claims 
that his son was killed in a car accident while attempting to avoid a porcupine. Absurd games such as 
\"Humiliate the Host\" and \"Get the Guests\" are played throughout this play. For 10 points, name this play in 
which Nick and Honey visit Martha and George, written by Edward Albee. 
ANSWER:  
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
227-13-96-03120 
5. Eustace of Boulogne tried to convince a commander during this battle to retreat right before Eustace was 
severely wounded. The victors of this battle pursued the other side into the Malfosse. During this battle, a 
defensive position was taken by the eventual losing side on Senlac Hill. The winning commander of this 
battle used fake retreats to draw soldiers out, and the losing commander may be depicted dying from an 
arrow to the eye on the Bayeux Tapestry. For 10 points, name this battle lost by Harold Godwinson to the 
Normans under William the Conqueror in 1066. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Hastings 
023-13-96-03121 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  6 of 10 
6. The protagonist of this book is chided for reading a book of birds with Arctic scenes. It ends by 
describing the fate of a man who proposed to the protagonist and is dying as a missionary in India. The 
protagonist goes to live with St. John Rivers and his sisters after leaving her employer at Thornfield Hall. 
Thornfield is eventually burned down by her employer's crazy wife, Bertha Mason. For 10 points, name 
this novel by Charlotte Brontë, whose title character marries Mr. Rochester. 
ANSWER:  
Jane Eyre 
121-13-96-03122 
7. This indicative tense's third-person plural conjugation is the basis of the subjunctive forms in another 
tense. The third-person singular conjugation in this Spanish verb tense adds a \"y\" when the verb has two 
consecutive vowels. Verbs that end in \"-car\" replace the \"c\" with a \"q\" in the first person in this tense. In 
this tense, the verbs \"ser\" and \"ir\" (EAR) are conjugated the same: \"fui,\" (FWEE) \"fuiste,\" (FWEE-stay) 
\"fue,\" (FWAY) and so on. This tense should be used only if the action was completed. For 10 points, name 
this past tense in Spanish contrasted with the imperfect tense. 
ANSWER: Spanish  
preterite 
 [or el  
preterito 
; do not accept or prompt on \"past\"] 
190-13-96-03123 
8. Structures created by this phenomenon are known as ventifacts. A type of transport via this phenomenon 
is known as saltation. This phenomenon is the primary driving force behind surface ocean currents. The 
Beaufort scale is used to classify this phenomenon based on observed sea conditions. This phenomenon is 
responsible for creating aeolian landforms, such as dunes and sand-blasted rocks. For 10 points, name this 
phenomenon that results from the uneven heating of Earth's surface 
ANSWER:  
wind 
066-13-96-03124 
9. This poem begins with the word \"Andra,\" meaning \"the man.\" The protagonist of this poem angrily 
reminds Eurycleia (yur-uh-CALY-uh) that he built his bridal bed around the immobile stump of an olive 
tree. On Phaeacia (fye-EY-kih-uh), the protagonist of this poem tells Nausicaa's father of his encounters 
with the Laestrygonians (LYE-struh-GOH-nee-unz) and Lotus Eaters. At the beginning of this poem, 
Athena takes the form of Mentor to guide Telemachus, who is angry at the suitors of his mother, Penelope. 
For 10 points, name this poem about a Greek king's return from Troy to Ithaca. 
ANSWER:  
The  Odyssey 
080-13-96-03125 
10. A difference of opinion exists between using \"qabd\" (KAH-bid) or \"sadl\" (SAH-dil) positioning during 
one portion of this action. This action is immediately preceded by an optional \"iqama\" (EE-kah-mah), and 
one ends it by performing \"tasleem\" on at least one side of the body. Examples of this action include \"fajr\" 
(FAH-jur), which is performed after \"suhoor\" and before sunrise during Ramadan. Each \"rak'ah\" of this 
action begins with a declaration of \"Allahu Akbar.\" This action is the second pillar of Islam. For 10 points, 
identify this action which is performed five times a day by Muslims. 
ANSWER: daily  
prayer 
 [or word forms; or  
salaah 
; or  
salaat 
; or  
dhuhr 
 until \"fajr\" is read; or  
asr 
 until 
\"fajr\" is read; or  
maghrib 
 until \"fajr\" is read; or  
isha 
 until \"fajr\" is read; or  
fajr 
 until it is read] 
189-13-96-03126 
11. Sir Thomas Wyatt translated some of these poems written by Ronsard into English. Sir Philip Sydney's  
Astrophel and Stella 
 is a sequence of this kind of poem. A collection of these kinds of poems \"from the 
Portugese\" was written by Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and an author who wrote one hundred fifty-four of 
these kinds of poems addressed some to the \"Dark Lady.\" Shakespeare's poems of this kind include \"Shall I 
Compare Thee to a Summer's Day?\" For 10 points, name this type of poem that consists of fourteen lines. 
ANSWER:  
sonnet 
s 
186-13-96-03127 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  7 of 10 
12. The use of these drugs during pregnancy correlates with persistent pulmonary hypertension in 
newborns. Suddenly stopping the use of one of these drugs can cause \"zaps\" as part of their namesake 
discontinuation syndrome. Like tricyclics, these drugs can be used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder. 
Drugs in this class include fluoxetine and paroxetine. For 10 points, name this class of drugs which inhibit 
the removal of a certain neurotransmitter from the synapse and are used to treat depression. 
ANSWER:  
SSRI 
s [or  
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors 
; or  
serotonin-specific reuptake inhibitors 
] 
048-13-96-03128 
13. This man was friends with his rival Luz Long, whom this man defeated to win the long-jump. This man 
set or tied four world records in less than an hour while running for Ohio State at the Big Ten track and 
field championships, and some of his feats were shown in Leni Riefenstahl's documentary  
Olympia. 
 For 10 
points, name this African-American track and field athlete whose four gold medals at the 1936 Berlin 
Olympics thwarted Hitler's attempt to demonstrate Aryan superiority. 
ANSWER: Jesse  
Owens 
030-13-96-03129 
14. A character in this novel refuses to lie down on the bottom of a boat because it goes against his military 
training. General Webb is the incompetent commander of Fort Edward in this novel, and much of it centers 
on Major Duncan Heyward's journey to take the Munro sisters to their father at Fort William Henry. Magua 
is shot at the conclusion of this book, in which Uncas is the title character. For 10 points, name this novel in 
which Natty Bumppo is known as Hawkeye, a work by James Fenimore Cooper. 
ANSWER:  
The  Last of the Mohicans 
030-13-96-03130 
15. The severity of this disease is measured on the EDSS scale. A classic symptom of this disease is 
Lhermitte's (LARE-meet's) sign. Its treatments includes a random polymer of four amino acids called 
glatiramir acetate, which shifts the Th1 response to a Th2 response. Oligodendrocytes are lost in this 
disease, which can be diagnosed by looking for white matter plaques on MRI. For 10 points, name this 
autoimmune disease which destroys the myelin sheaths surrounding neurons. 
ANSWER:  
multiple sclerosis 
 [or  
MS 
] 
048-13-96-03131 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 3 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. When cells in this tissue die, they are surrounded by macrophages forming a crown-like structure. A side 
effect of HIV protease inhibitors is a redistribution of this tissue. It’s not bone marrow, but the stromal 
vascular fraction of this tissue is a great source of mesenchymal stem cells. This type of tissue produces 
leptin and is divided into white and brown types. It is also known as adipose tissue. For 10 points, name 
this type of connective tissue which stores lipids. 
ANSWER: body  
fat 
 tissue [or  
adipose 
 tissue until it is read] 
048-13-96-03132 
2. Eight men died trying to end this event in Operation Eagle Claw. Frank Reynolds was the original host 
of a show started during this event; that show, later hosted by Ted Koppel, was ABC's  
Nightline. 
 Six 
people escaped this event thanks to the Canadian Caper. This event was ended minutes after the 
inauguration of Ronald Reagan. For 10 points, name this event during the Carter administration that lasted 
for 444 days and included fifty-two Americans being held against their will in Tehran. 
ANSWER:  
Iran hostage 
 crisis 
023-13-96-03133 
3. These objects are roughly 1.5 times as common as their counterparts among substances in the 
hypothetical \"island of stability\". These particles, which consist of two down quarks and an up quark, 
release an antineutrino when they decay, which happens with a half-life of about 10 minutes. Discovered 
by James Chadwick in 1932, they contribute to the mass number, but not the atomic number, of an element. 
For 10 points, name this elementary particle with no electric charge, found in the nucleus along with the 
proton. 
ANSWER:  
neutron 
132-13-96-03134 
4. A way to find this value is to take the sum of the first ionization energy and electron affinity and divide 
by two. The Allen scale for finding this value has its lowest end at cesium, which differs from a more 
common scale for this value that gives its lowest value, 0.7, to francium. That common scale for this value 
assigns its highest value, 3.98, to fluorine and is named for Linus Pauling. A large difference in this value 
between molecules usually results in an ionic bond. For 10 points, name this ability of atoms to attract 
shared electrons. 
ANSWER:  
electronegativity 
023-13-96-03135 
5. This man wrote a poem about poetry with the section \"It Must Be Abstract,\" entitled  
Notes Toward a 
Supreme Fiction. 
 \"The wilderness rose up to\" the title object of one of his poems, causing the wilderness to 
become \"no longer wild.\" In addition to that poem about an object \"like nothing else in Tennessee,\" this 
man wrote a poem that begins, \"Call of the roller of big cigars,\" and states, \"Let be be finale of seem.\" For 
10 points, name this American poet who wrote \"Anecdote of the Jar\" and \"The Emperor of Ice Cream.\" 
ANSWER: Wallace  
Stevens 
030-13-96-03136 
This is a calculation question. You roll two N-sided dice, with faces numbered one through N. What is the 
smallest value of N for which the expected value of the dice’s sum is greater than 6? 
ANSWER:  
6 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  9 of 10 
What vector is defined as the shortest linear distance between two points? 
ANSWER:  
displacement 
 vector 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2014     3     Page  10 of 10 
