NASAT 2011 
Round 15 
Tossups 
1. In one of this composer's operas, the hero is advised by Finn to cut off a dwarf's magic beard and is 
waylaid at the palace of Naina. That hero of an opera by this man is briefly impeded by Farlaf, who, like 
the poet Ratmir, had been rejected as a suitor by the princess. After granting permission for Antonida to 
marry Bogdan Sobinin, the protagonist of another of this composer's operas is killed in the Enchanted 
Forest. Ivan Susanin had deceived some Poles who were attempting to kidnap Mikhail Romanov in that 
opera. For 10 points, name this composer of the first fully-sung native Russian operas,  
Ruslan and 
Lyudmila 
 and  
A Life for the Tsar. 
ANSWER: Mikhail Ivanovich  
Glinka 
019-11-30-15102 
2. This city’s lower-class, the  
lazzaroni 
, supported monarchism and revolted against the Parthenopean 
Republic in 1799. In this city, a new tax on fruit brought about the revolt of the fisherman Masaniello, who 
was soon shot. It was given to Charles V in the Treaty of Blois, after which it was ruled by Spanish 
viceroys. This city’s law code was reformed under the rule of Napoleon’s brother-in-law, Joachim Murat. 
Along with Sicility, the Kingdom of this city formed the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. For 10 points, name 
this southern Italian city, whose name means “new city.” 
ANSWER:  
Naples 
 [or  
Neapolis 
; or  
Napoli 
] 
080-11-30-15103 
3. Driver improved upon Bismut's version of this formula for jump processes. Darboux's formula is a 
consequence of its repeated application and Abel's formula is its analogous discrete method. It can be 
derived by using the product rule on two functions then applying the fundamental theorem of calculus and 
rearranging terms. One variant of takes the products of a item in a table with the item to its lower right then 
sums the products using alternating signs. That tabular method is used when this is done repeatedly. The 
LIATE rule is a heuristic for using it where L stands for logarithm and I for inverse trig function. For 10 
points, name this integration technique that states that the integral of u dv equals uv minus the integral of v 
du. 
ANSWER:  
integration by parts 
001-11-30-15104 
4. The introduction to one of this man's works discusses the execution of the regicide Robert-Francois 
Damiens. This thinker developed the method of \"genealogy\" to show that modernity’s  
episteme 
 was not 
“rationally inevitable.” This writer also attempted to trace the origins of the \"repressive hypothesis\" and the 
concept of \"biopower\" in another work. This author analyzed the \"medical gaze\" in  
The Birth of the Clinic 
in addition to writing  
The History of Sexuality 
. Another of his works describes how Bentham's Panopticon 
allows guards to exert control without continual observation. For 10 points, name this French thinker who 
wrote  
Discipline and Punish 
. 
ANSWER: Michel  
Foucault 
033-11-30-15105 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. One stretch of this river flows through a volcanic region called the Singu Plateau. A series of seven 
controversial dams are planned for construction on this river, the largest of which is the Myitsone dam. The 
Taping and Chindwin are tributaries of this river which is formed by the confluence of the Mali and N’mai 
rivers. This river is also home to and names a certain type of beakless dolphin that shares many physical 
features with the beluga whale. The delta of the Salween River lies about one hundred miles east of the 
delta of this river, which flows into the Andaman Sea. Yangon lies in the delta of this river, while the 
largest city on it is Mandalay. For 10 points, name this longest river in Myanmar. 
ANSWER:  
Irrawaddy 
 River [or  
Ayeyarwaddy 
 River] 
064-11-30-15106 
6. A sine squared factor in the denominator of the gain-saturation function for these devices causes \"spatial 
hole burning\" in the gain coefficient. That gain coefficient is equal to a threshold value in 
\"continuous-wave oscillation\" of these devices, in which the cavity photon number is constant. These 
devices make use of a deviation from thermal equilibrium in which there are more electrons in a higher 
energy level than a lower energy level, a phenomenon known as population inversion, though ones that 
work without population inversion do so using quantum coherence. For 10 points, name these devices that 
produce highly coherent light through stimulated emission of radiation. 
ANSWER:  
laser 
s [or  
light amplification 
 by  
stimulated emission 
 of  
radiation 
 before \"stimulated\"] 
003-11-30-15107 
7. The protagonist of this novel takes a job under an ignorant boss who just organizes rallies such as 
Tougher Teeth Week and Banish the Booze Week. The title character is fired for ordering the McCandless 
tenements to be burnt down after inheriting the position of Dr. Almus Pickerbaugh. At the end of this novel 
the protagonist divorces his second wife Joyce Landon and goes to work with Terry Wickett in rural 
Vermont. The title character is invited to join the McGurk Institute by his former teacher Max Gottlieb, and 
his wife Leora Tozer dies from an infected cigarette while he is studying the bubonic plague on the island 
of St. Hubert. For 10 points, name this novel about the title doctor, Martin, by Sinclair Lewis. 
ANSWER:  
Arrowsmith 
105-11-30-15108 
8. The narrator of this poem wishes \"I were as in my boyhood, and could be the comrade of thy 
wanderings.\" Its third stanza describes the \"blue Mediterranean\" and the \"sapless foliage\" which suddenly 
\"grow grey with fear and tremble and despoil themselves.\" The title entity of this work is described as 
spreading \"angels of rain and lightning.\" The narrator of this poem cries \"I fall upon the thorns of life! I 
bleed!\", and describes the title figure as both \"destroyer and preserver.\" This work begins with a description 
of the title figure as a \"breath of Autumn's being\" and it ends by asking \"if Winter comes, can Spring be far 
behind?\" For 10 points, name this poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley, an ode to the title harbinger of Autumn. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ode to the West Wind 
\" 
059-11-30-15109 
9. This figure forced another deity to retrieve a giant “turnip head” arrow and spend two nights in rooms 
full of centipedes and snakes before he could marry his daughter. This figure gave birth to five children by 
biting his sibling’s necklace. After being expelled from heaven, this figure used giant tubs of wine to make 
a dragon drunk and rescue Kushinada-hime. This deity threw a flayed horse into his sister’s room. He 
retrieved the Kusanagi blade after killing Yamata-no-Orochi. For 10 points, name this brother of 
Amaterasu, the Shinto god of storms. 
ANSWER:  
Susano’o 
080-11-30-15110 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This leader was one of the few to survive the siege of the Bituriges tribe capital of Avaricum. In one 
battle, he was forced to watch his people’s women and children starve after ejecting them from his 
besieged city. The sudden support of the Aedui helped this man fend off a siege of Gergovia. He was 
dragged through Rome in chains in a 46 BCE triumph. He was finally captured after a siege in which the 
Romans built two sets of walls around the town of Alesia. For 10 points, name this leader of the Arverni 
tribe who was defeated by Julius Caesar during the Gallic Wars. 
ANSWER:  
Vercingetorix 
015-11-30-15111 
11. This thinker asked \"are democracy and social science compatible each with each?\" and \"are today's 
youth different?\" in two chapters in this thinker's study of America. In addition to writing  
And Keep Your 
Powder Dry 
, this author studied the mountain-dwelling, river-dwelling, and lake-dwelling Arapesh, 
Mundugumor, and Tchambuli. The best known work of this thinker studied 68 individuals between the 
ages of nine and twenty on the island of Tau, many of whom later admitted to lying to her. \"The Making 
and Unmaking of an Anthropological Myth\" was written by Derek Freeman to criticize this author, who 
posited that women in the title society had lots of casual sex before marriage. For 10 points, name this 
anthropologist who wrote  
Sex and Temperament in Three Societies 
 and  
Coming of Age in Samoa. 
ANSWER: Margaret  
Mead 
081-11-30-15112 
12. Overexpression of YUCCA genes increase the synthesis of these compounds by increasing 
hydroxylation of tryptamine, and another step of their synthesis is catalyzed by nitrilase. The toxin 
fusicoccin mimics some of the effects of these compounds, which binds to the TIR1-SCF complex. They 
trigger increased efflux of protons across the cell wall, causing the activation of expansins; that mechanism 
is known as the acid-growth hypothesis. This hormone moves from shoots downward in a process known 
as polar transport, and it helps establish apical dominance. Experiments with blocks of agar also showed 
that its responsible for phototropism. For 10 points, name this plant hormone, examples of which include 
indole-3-acetic acid. 
ANSWER:  
auxin 
048-11-30-15113 
13. After his death, this man’s papers were edited by his student, Theodore Beza. This Christian 
theologian’s followers later split into supralapsarians and infralapsarians. After his death, this theologian’s 
central ideas were summarized into the “Five Points”, which can be abbreviated as TULIP and which 
include the ideas of Irresistible Grace and Total Depravity. This theologian set forth his beliefs in the book  
Institutes of the Christian Religion 
. For 10 points, name this Protestant reformer from Geneva, whose 
namesake denomination believes in predestination. 
ANSWER: John  
Calvin 
021-11-30-15114 
14. This composer dedicated his piece \"Be Embraced, You Millions\" to his admirer Brahms. His popularity 
was challenged in his native country by Karl Ziehrer and in France by Emil Waldteufel. After successfully 
touring Russia from 1856 to 1858, he composed his \"Tritsch-Tratsch Polka.\" This composer gained fame 
for pieces such as \"Wiener Bonbons\" and \"Wine, Women, and Song,\" which are played every New Year's 
Eve at a televised concert of the Vienna Philharmonic. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of 
\"Tales from the Vienna Woods\" and \"The Blue Danube,\" who was known as the Waltz King. 
ANSWER: Johann  
Strauss II 
   [prompt on  
Strauss 
; accept clear-knowledge equivalents such as \"the 
younger Strauss\"] 
004-11-30-15115 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. Clerical involvement in this era was criticized in books like  
Backwards Christ 
. Norman Bailey claimed 
an intimidation tactic in this era was to replace fetuses with roosters. One phase of this period saw a decree 
repeal the 1930 labor laws and tacit government endorsement of violence against Protestant churches. The 
chaos of this period led to one group forming the Marquetalia Republic after it was ended by a sixteen-year 
power-sharing agreement. The assassination of Jorge Eliecer Gaitan sparked its earliest phase, the 
Bogotazo, and tens of thousands died in liberal-conservative clashes. For 10 points, name this 1948 to 1964 
informal conflict that destroyed Colombian society. 
ANSWER: La  
Violencia 
019-11-30-15116 
16. In Ivan Turgenev’s  
The Torrents of Spring 
, one of these events causes Gemma to end her engagement 
to Kluber and fall in love with Sanin. In a Pushkin short story, a thrown candlestick at a card game prompts 
Silvio to tell of one of these events. In a Chekhov story the government official Laevsky becomes more 
temperate and the zoologist Von Koren becomes more spontaneous after one of these events. In  
The Three 
Musketeers 
, D’Artagnan meets his companions by scheduling three of these on the same day. In  
Eugene 
Onegin 
, Onegin’s excessive dancing with Olga causes one of these events that results in the death of 
Lensky. For 10 points, Alexander Pushkin himself died engaged in what honor-defending practice? 
ANSWER:  
duel 
ing 
015-11-30-15117 
17. In one work by this author, the kindly English lord Edward Bomston offers to protect Julie d’Etange, 
who is forced to marry de Wolmar despite her love for her Swiss tutor Saint-Preux. In another work, a 
character named for this author uses the idea of a woman named “Sophie” to talk to his pupil about 
marriage. This author of  
The New Heloise 
 remembered urinating in a neighbor’s cooking pot in an 
autobiographical work which also revealed that he had fathered five illegitimate children with Therese 
Levasseur. For 10 points, name this French author of  
Emile 
 and  
Confessions 
, whose more political works 
included  
The Social Contract 
. 
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques  
Rousseau 
015-11-30-15118 
18. A man in a straw hat holds a mallet and bends down in one of this artist's five depictions of the game of 
croquet. He painted a man standing in the surf with a shotgun as two ducks react to the blast in  
Right and 
Left 
. This artist painted a soldier for the Union sitting in a tree in his  
Sharpshooter on Picket Duty 
. He 
depicted a group of children, including two who have fallen over, playing the title game in front of a 
schoolhouse in his  
Snap-the-Whip 
. One of his works shows a ship called the Gloucester carrying four men 
to harbor, and another shows a man of African descent on a ship in rough waters that is surrounded by 
sharks. For 10 points, name this painter of  
Breezing Up 
 and  
The Gulf Stream 
. 
ANSWER: Winslow  
Homer 
088-11-30-15119 
19. In his early life, this man served on a congressional board investigating the Apollo 1 fire, during which 
he questioned NASA administrator James Webb about supposed internal detailing problems with the chief 
Apollo contractor. During one debate, he told the audience that both he and his opponent would raise taxes, 
but only he was honest enough to admit so. He used the Wendy’s slogan “where’s the beef?” to defeat 
Gary Hart in the Democratic primaries, after which he selected New York congresswoman Geraldine 
Ferraro as his running mate. For 10 points, name this Senator from Minnesota, Vice President under Jimmy 
Carter, and loser by over 500 votes to Ronald Reagan in the election of 1984. 
ANSWER: Walter Frederick  
Mondale 
064-11-30-15120 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. Scherrer’s formula is used to compute the shape factor when using this technique. In this technique, the 
accuracy of the resulting model with the raw data is given by the R-factor. The sample undergoing this 
technique is placed on a goniometer and rotated. This technique was used by Perutz and Kendrew to study 
myoglobin, and this technique was developed by Max von Laue. Another famous application of this 
technique produced photo 51, which was shown to Maurice Wilkins; that application of this technique was 
performed by Rosalind Franklin to determine the structure of DNA. For 10 points, name this technique 
which is used to find the structure of proteins and other macromolecules, in which the sample is bombarded 
by high-energy radiation. 
ANSWER:  
X-ray crystallography 
 or  
X-ray diffraction 
048-11-30-15121 
21. Time constructible functions are functions whose output describe the time for this to occur. Sums of 
two to the negative probability of this occurrence make up the transcendental omega numbers. Tibor Radó 
devised a problem looking for setups responsible for the maximum number of ones before this happens. 
That is the busy beaver problem. For linear bounded automata, this occurrence can be computed. A 
diagonal proof showed that there is no general procedure for predicting if this will happen. That was shown 
in a paper on the Entscheidungs problem by Alan Turing. If this does not happen, a machine will runs 
forever. For 10 points, name this termination of a computation by a Turing machine. 
ANSWER:  
halt 
ing [accept equivalents] 
024-11-30-15122 
22. A king of this dynasty who was succeeded by his uncle Phillip V and lived for five days was known as 
John the Posthumous. The members of this dynasty were all descended from Robert the Strong. A king of 
this dynasty who defeated the forces of emperor Otto IV at Bouvines was named Phillip Augustus. Another 
king of this dynasty was captured by Edward the Black Prince and was ransomed after the battle of Poitiers. 
Succeeding the Carolingian dynasty, it held power for over three hundred years before being replaced by 
the Valois dynasty. For 10 points, name this French dynasty founded by Hugh in 987. 
ANSWER:  
Capetian 
 Dynasty 
100-11-30-15123 
23. This poet wrote of being left alone on the shore because the title vehicle is too small and full in the title 
poem of his collection  
Sonar Tori 
 or  
The Golden Boat 
. He asked \"Into that heaven of freedom, my Father, 
let my country awake\" in a poem which begins \"where the mind is without fear\" and which he translated 
into English as \"Prayer.\" In one of his plays, the emperor separates himself from the world behind an iron 
curtain to escape a revolution against a mining company lead by Nandini. In addition to  
Red Oleanders 
, 
this author wrote lines like \"because I love this life, I know I shall love death as well\" in a collection of 103 
poems, for which William Butler Yeats wrote a preface. For 10 points, name this Bengali author of  
Gitanjali 
. 
ANSWER: Rabindranath  
Tagore 
088-11-30-15124 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 15 
Bonuses 
1. The Miranda family hires a spinster from Washington D.C. named Harriet Winslow to teach their 
children English in this work. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this novel, in which the title novelist goes searching for Pancho Villa. 
ANSWER:  
The  Old Gringo 
 [or  
Gringo Viejo 
] 
[10]  
The Old Gringo 
 is a novel by this Mexican author, best known for  
The Death of Artemio Cruz 
. 
ANSWER: Carlos  
Fuentes 
 Macias 
[10] Fuentes' magnum opus is this sprawling novel which focuses on the building of El Escorial. Recurring 
figures in this novel include Ludovico and Celestina. 
ANSWER:  
Terra Nostra 
094-11-30-15201 
2. Planar ones can be drawn with no intersections. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these sets of nodes and their edges. 
ANSWER:  
graph 
s 
[10] These are simple undirected graphs in which each node is directly connected by an edge to every other 
node. 
ANSWER:  
complete 
 graph 
[10] This theorem states that for numbers k and l, there exists a sufficiently large number A such that every 
graph with A nodes contains either a complete subgraph of at least size k or an independent set of at least 
size l. 
ANSWER:  
Ramsey 
's Theorem 
001-11-30-15202 
3. This goddess defeated Poseidon in a contest for the patronage of her namesake city. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Greek goddess of war and wisdom who sprang fully formed from Zeus’s head. 
ANSWER:  
Athena 
[10] In the  
Odyssey 
, Athena assumes the guise of this son of Alcimus to tell Telemachus to stand up to the 
suitors. 
ANSWER:  
Mentor 
[10] As Mentor, Athena appears in Odysseus' final battle against the suitors. Odysseus kills the prophet 
Leodes, but spares two people: a bard and a herald. Name either. 
ANSWER:  
Medon 
 and  
Phemius 
 [accept either] 
015-11-30-15203 
4. Andre Geim invented a method of isolating this material. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this two dimensional material that some believe will one day replace silicon in transistors. 
ANSWER:  
graphene 
[10] The carbon atoms in graphene and ethene have this hybridization. 
ANSWER:  
sp 
2 
[10] This other carbon allotrope with a cylindrical structure is a candidate for silicon replacement. They can 
be single-walled or multi-walled and are known for their extremely high tensile strength. 
ANSWER: carbon  
nanotube 
s 
024-11-30-15204 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. Politicians from this country included Jorg Haider and Kurt Weldheim. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country that merged with Germany in the Anschluss. 
ANSWER:  
Austria 
[10] The Anschluss was forbidden by this treaty, which was signed by the Allies and Austria after World 
War I. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Saint-Germain 
[10] An Edict of Saint-Germain was promulgated by this French ruler, who served as regent for her sons 
Francis II, Charles IX, and Henry III. 
ANSWER:  
Catherine de Medici 
s [prompt on partial answer] 
015-11-30-15205 
6. One character in this play is first seen muttering slogans for products such as Doublemint gum and lashes 
out at Jill after she tries to seduce him in Harry Dalton’s stable. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which the anxiety-ridden therapist Martin Dysart treats Alan Strang. 
ANSWER:  
Equus 
[10] This British playwright of  
Royal Hunt of the Sun 
 and  
Equus 
 wrote of Salieri’s rivalry with God as 
personified by Mozart in  
Amadeus 
. 
ANSWER: Peter  
Shaffer 
[10] This other modern British playwright wrote about minor characters from  
Hamlet 
 in  
Rosencrantz and 
Guildenstern Are Dead 
. 
ANSWER: Sir Tom  
Stoppard 
104-11-30-15206 
7. After suggesting in 2003 that any computer equipment used for copyright violations should be able to be 
destroyed, it was discovered that this Senator's website was using JavaScript code that was unregistered. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Repbulican from Utah who is noted for his stance on strengthening copyright enforcement 
and has held his seat in the Senate since 1977. 
ANSWER: Orrin Grant  
Hatch 
[10] Hatch acted as co-sponsor of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act with this 
Representative, a Democrat from Southern California and longtime anti-tobacco and pro-government 
oversight advocate. 
ANSWER: Henry Arnold  
Waxman 
[10] Hatch served as the chairman of this committee from 1995 to 2001; it is currently chaired by Patrick 
Leahy of Vermont. 
ANSWER: Senator  
Judiciary 
 Committee 
088-11-30-15207 
8. A horse-like figure with a lance is the title figure of this artist's  
 The Antipope 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this painter of  
The Elephant Celebes 
 who borrowed imagery from Victorian classics for his 
graphic novel  
 A Week of Kindness  
. 
ANSWER: Max  
Ernst 
[10] The Nazis gave Max Ernst's artwork this designation, a broad label applied to modern artists that 
corrupted Aryan purity with possibly Jewish overtones. An exhibition of it was organized by Hitler. 
ANSWER:  
Degenerate 
 Art 
[10] Another artist termed degenerate was this Belarusian, who pained  
 Self-Portrait with Seven Fingers  
 as 
well as  
 I and the Village 
. 
ANSWER: Marc  
Chagall 
033-11-30-15208 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. Many of its leaders were sentenced to Robben Island at the Rivonia Trial, accused of everything from 
violating the Suppression of Communism Act to perpetrating terrorism through its violent wing, Umkhonto 
we Sizwe or Spear of the Nation. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this political party, led during the apartheid era by Walter Sisulu, Oliver Tambo, and Nelson 
Mandela. 
ANSWER:  
ANC 
 [or  
African National Congress 
] 
[10] While the ANC used more militant means, this Anglican Bishop of Johannesburg opposed apartheid 
through the international media. He later became the chairman of the Truth and Reconciliation 
Commission. 
ANSWER: Desmond Mpilo  
Tutu 
[10] This party opposed the stringency and the perceived domination of Xhosa in the ANC. Led by 
Mangosuthu Buthelezi, it advocated for Zulu interests. 
ANSWER:  
Inkatha 
 Freedom Party 
019-11-30-15209 
10. A confederate in this experiment could be heard warning the subject that he suffered from a heart 
condition. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this obedience experiment in which subjects thought they were applying nearly lethal doses of 
electric shock. 
ANSWER:  
Milgram 
’s obedience experiment 
[10] This other series of experiments confirmed that subjects were likely to adhere to a group consensus in 
asking subjects to identify the longest line in a room full of lying confederates. 
ANSWER:  
Asch 
 conformity experiments 
[10] Muzafer Sherif noticed that groups of three converged on varying distances a dot of light on a wall 
moved, even though it only appeared to move through this effect. 
ANSWER:  
autokinetic 
 effect 
015-11-30-15210 
11. This work lambastes Marx in its section \"The High Tide of Prophesy.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this book by the author of  
The Logic of Scientific Discovery 
 in which a British philosopher 
attempts to unmask the \"Spell of Plato\" that leads to over-reliance on universal laws. 
ANSWER:  
The  Open Society and its Enemies 
[10] This British philosopher of science wrote  
The Open Society and its enemies 
, and also posited that true 
science requires falsifiability. 
ANSWER: Sir Karl Raimund  
Popper 
[10] Walter Kaufmann, a prolific translator of this German thinker's works, accused Popper of relying on a 
Scribner's condensed version of this philosopher in penning  
The Open Society and its Enemies 
, which pairs 
this philosopher with Marx in its \"High Tide of Prophesy\" section. 
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich  
Hegel 
026-11-30-15211 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. Answer the following about a contemporary conductor for 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this current director of the LA Philharmonic, who conducted its \"Brahms Unbound\" series 
from May 5 to June 5, 2011. A product of Venezuela's El Sistema, he is also the director of Orquesta 
Sinfonica Simon Bolivar in Caracas. 
ANSWER: Gustavo Adolfo  
Dudamel 
 Ramirez 
[10] Dudamel's inaugural concert with the LA Philharmonic featured a performance of the final movement 
from this man's  
City Noir 
. He also composed  
Shaker Loops 
 and  
Short Ride In A Fast Machine 
. 
ANSWER: John Coolidge  
Adams 
[10] Dudamel's inaugural recording with Deutsche Grammophon features this piece by Beethoven which is 
best known for its opening \"short short short long\" motif. 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven Fifth 
's   Symphony [prompt on partial answer] 
108-11-30-15212 
13. In this work, Dude marries Bessie in part because she purchases a car with a loud horn. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this novel which ends with Jeeter and Ada Lester dying in a house fire caused by burning off 
grass on their farm. 
ANSWER:  
Tobacco Road 
[10]  
Tobacco Road 
 is a work written by this American author, who also wrote  
God's Little Acre 
. 
ANSWER: Erskine (Preston)  
Caldwell 
[10] In  
God's Little Acre 
 this patriarch obsessively digs on every part of his property searching for gold. At 
one point he kidnaps an albino believing he will help him find gold. 
ANSWER:  
Ty Ty 
 Walden [prompt on Walden] 
088-11-30-15213 
14. This region prevents water from leaving the cell wall and going into the root cortex. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this “strip” found in the endodermis of a plant, which is made of suberin. 
ANSWER:  
Casparian 
 strip 
[10] Casparian strips are formed during the development of this vascular tissue that transports water from 
the root to the rest of the plant. 
ANSWER:  
xylem 
[10] Secondary xylem is typically absent in angiosperms of this type, which contain parallel leaf veins and 
flower parts in multiples of three. 
ANSWER:  
monocot 
yledon 
064-11-30-15214 
15. This religion's liturgy is written in a dialect of Yoruba known as Lucumi. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this syncretic Caribbean religion that is similar to, though separate from, Voodoo. 
ANSWER:  
Santeria 
[10] Similar to Voodoo's loa are these central spirits of Santeria, who count among their number the 
machete-wielding Feraille. 
ANSWER:  
orishas 
[10] This supreme being of Santeria occupies a higher position than the orishas. It is also referred to as 
Olodumare. 
ANSWER:  
Olorun 
081-11-30-15215 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. This event was caused in part by the tightening of credit availability by institutions including the Bank 
of the United States. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this financial crisis that came at the end of the Era of Good Feelings. 
ANSWER:  
Panic of 1819 
[10] The Panic of 1819 took place during the tenure of this American president. His time in office also saw 
him veto the Cumberland Road Bill. 
ANSWER: James  
Monroe 
[10] The Adams-Onis treaty, agreed to during Monroe's time in office, saw Spain give up Florida and 
relinquish claims to this so-called 'country' that started at 42 degrees north latitude. 
ANSWER:  
Oregon 
088-11-30-15216 
17. This man was said to have severed the Gordian Knot and to have stood in Diogenes’ sun. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this leader who defeated Darius III at Issus. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander the Great 
[10] Alexander finished off Darius III and his traitorous satrap Bessus at this battle two years later. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Gaugamela 
 [or Battle of  
Arbela 
] 
[10] Many of Alexander’s victories were assisted by well timed charges from this elite Macedonian cavalry 
unit, which was divided into groups of about three hundred horsemen. 
ANSWER: the  
Companion 
s 
015-11-30-15217 
18. This work shows the central figure holding onto a golden orb with a figure of Winged Nike on it. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Identify this sculpture of a French leader who holds a spear in his other hand and has a Roman robe 
draped over his arm. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon as Mars the Peacemaker 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
[10]  
 Napoleon as Mars the Peacemaker 
 is a work of this Venetian sculptor of  
 Pauline Borghese as Venus 
Victrix 
. 
ANSWER: Antonio  
Canova 
[10] Canova sculpted this man holding a golden pen and looking at a blank tablet. He is commemorated by 
the world's tallest obelisk, which is located in the District of Columbia. 
ANSWER: George  
Washington 
033-11-30-15218 
19. In 2010, the European Space Agency's GOCE satellite produced the first detailed map of this field. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this field that is approximated as pulling objects downward at an acceleration of 9.8 meters per 
second per second. 
ANSWER:  
Earth gravitation 
's  al field [prompt on partial answer] 
[10] One of these devices was used by Henry Cavendish to calculate the Earth's density and, ultimately, the 
gravitational constant. They have been ubiquitous in gravitational research ever since. 
ANSWER:  
torsion balance 
 [prompt on  
balance 
; prompt on other answers mentioning  
torsion 
] 
[10] This is the region of space in which Earth's gravity dominates over the Sun and thus orbits are 
stabilized against perturbations from the Sun's gravity. 
ANSWER:  
Hill sphere 
003-11-30-15219 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. This work centers on a poisoned copy of a missing portion of Aristotle's  
Poetic 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this mystery novel in which William of Baskerville and the novice Adso of Melk investigate a 
monastery that is home to the murderous blind monk Jorge de Burgos. 
ANSWER:  
The  Name of the Rose 
 [or  
Il  Nome della Rosa 
] 
[10]  
The Name of the Rose 
 is a work written by this Italian author who also wrote  
The Island of the Day 
Before 
. 
ANSWER: Umberto  
Eco 
[10] In Eco's  
Foucault's Pendulum 
, the three main characters, Belbo, Casaubon, and Diotallevi create a 
fictional conspiracy that goes by this name. 
ANSWER: The  
Plan 
 [or Il  
Piano 
] 
088-11-30-15220 
21. The title character of this poem has a brow “so soft, so calm, yet eloquent” and has “a heart whose love 
is innocent.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem in which a woman is compared to “cloudless climes and starry skies.” 
ANSWER: “ 
She Walks in Beauty 
” 
[10] This rakish author of  
Don Juan 
 wrote “She Walks in Beauty.” 
ANSWER: George Gordon, Lord  
Byron 
[10] Byron claimed to have “awoke one morning and found myself famous” after the publication of the 
first part of this poem. It concerns a young man’s travels through Europe. 
ANSWER:  
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage 
015-11-30-15221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 15     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
