National History Bowl 11 
Round 11 
First Quarter 
1. This group's success at getting one of its candidates selected as prime minister led to the January 25th, 
2011, \"day of rage\" in this organization's base country. Michel Suleiman made that appointment, which 
removed from power the son of a man this group may have assassinated in a 2005 car bombing. For 10 
points, name this militant group supported by Iran and Syria and based in Lebanon. 
ANSWER:  
Hezbollah 
023-11-31-11101 
2. Every year this company produces a charity drive called  
Children in Need 
. Its show  
Our World 
 saw the 
premiere of the song  
All You Need is Love 
. Viewers are required to purchase a license and its primary 
competitor is ITV. Shows produced by this organization include  
Eastenders Top Gear 
,  , and  
Doctor Who 
. 
For 10 points, name this British radio and television public broadcaster. 
ANSWER:  
British Broadcasting Corporation 
 [or  
BBC 
] 
001-11-31-11102 
3. Opposition to this man from students centered on the Wartburg Festival. This subject of Henry 
Kissinger’s doctoral dissertation shut down the gymnasium movement and responded to Karl Sand’s 
assassination of August von Kozebue by passing the Karlsbad Decrees. For 10 points, name this Hapsburg 
foreign minister who orchestrated the “concert of Europe” at the Congress of Vienna. 
ANSWER: Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar, Fürst Von  
Metternich 
-Winneburg-Beilstein 
019-11-31-11103 
4. Seven years before this battle, the death of Yohannes IV led to one participant helping the forces of 
Shewa to take the throne. This battle settled a conflict that began due to Prime Minister Crispi’s 
interpretation of Article Seventeen of the Treaty of Wichale. Oreste Bartieri lost to Menelik II and made 
peace at the Treaty of Addis Ababa following, for 10 points, what 1896 battle in which Ethiopia turned 
back an Italian force? 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Adowa 
019-11-31-11104 
5. Important men in this conflict included John Oldham and John Endecott. The decisive action in this 
conflict was undertaken by John Mason when he burned an enclosure of women and children in the Mystic 
Massacre. Fought by Massachusetts against members of the namesake Native American tribe and ended by 
a treaty signed in Hartford, for 10 points, name this war fought in the 1630s. 
ANSWER:  
Pequot 
 War 
040-11-31-11105 
6. One conflict sometimes considered to be a part of this war included the Battle of Burnt Corn and was 
called the Creek War. A battle in this war saw Robert Heriot Barclay fight the Battle of the Thames; the 
winning side in that battle was commanded by Oliver Hazard Perry. For 10 points, name this war that also 
saw the Battle of New Orleans fought after the signing of the Treaty of Ghent. 
ANSWER:  
War of 1812 
081-11-31-11106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. This people's mythology asserted that they lived in the Fourth World after the Third had been destroyed 
by a great flood. They clashed with the Peabody Coal Company. A grammar of this people's language was 
published by Benjamin Whorf, while religious ceremonies were held in structures called kivas. This group 
descended from the Anasazi and lived in pueblos. For 10 points, name this group of Southwestern 
American Indians. 
ANSWER:  
Hopi 
081-11-31-11107 
8. This faith split after the adoption of the 1885 Pittsburgh Platform. This sect introduced a ceremony of 
Confirmation patterned on the Christian sacrament, gradually eliminated the prayer shawl and 
sex-segregated seating during worship, and in some cases did away with the bar mitzvah. For 10 points, 
name this faith that broke away from Orthodox Judaism in the nineteenth century. 
ANSWER: (American)  
Reform 
 Judaism [prompt on American  
Judaism 
 or word forms before \"Judaism\"] 
003-11-31-11108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 11 
Second Quarter 
1.  
Simon Fernandez led one group of individuals to this site while an earlier leader provoked anger 
with the killing of Wingina. John White was an early governor of this establishment whose residents 
had close ties with Manteo, a native of nearby (*) 
 Croatoan Island; the word “Croatoan” would be 
discovered carved on a tree post at this site. Ralph Lane and Richard Greenville were among the early 
leaders of this site, the birthplace of Virginia Dare and the brainchild of Sir Walter Raleigh. For 10 points, 
name this mysteriously abandoned English settlement in North Carolina that is known as the “Lost 
Settlement”. 
ANSWER:  
Roanoke 
 Island [or  
Roanoke 
 Colony] 
BONUS: Some historians have speculated that some of the Roanoke settlers may have been absorbed by 
which specific tribe of Iroquois, which in the 18th century, became the sixth of the Iroquois Nations? 
ANSWER:  
Tuscarora 
064-11-31-11101 
2.  
Plutarch contrasts this man with Agesilaus II and claims he told defenders of a city “Stop quoting 
laws to us. We carry swords.” His son Sextus held off Octavian and Antony’s forces in Sicily until 36 
BC. This man received accolades for defeating (*) 
 Mithridates VI. The eunuch Pothinus convinced 
Ptolemy XIII to behead this man after battles at Dyrrhachium and Pharsalus forced him to flee to Egypt. 
For 10 points, name this Roman general who fought Julius Caesar in a civil war. 
ANSWER:  
Pompey 
 the Great 
BONUS: Name the two men who together served with Pompey in the First Triumvirate. 
ANSWER: Marcus Licinius  
Crassus 
 and Julius  
Caesar 
015-11-31-11102 
3.  
One gubernatorial campaign of this politician saw a future first lady support him by riding on top 
of a giant motorized teapot while yelling \"corruption!\" at onlookers. This member of the American 
Liberty League was advised by Belle Moskowitz. He was the vice chairman of the committee that 
investigated the Triangle Shirtwaist fire. His anti-prohibition beliefs contrasted against William 
McAdoo's (*) 
 dry stance at the 1924 convention. In his most notable election his running mate was Joseph 
Robinson. This \"happy warrior\" was Governor of New York for most of the 1920s. He's not Kennedy, but 
he was the first Catholic to receive a presidential nomination by a major party. For 10 points, name this 
loosing Democratic candidate for President in 1928. 
ANSWER: Alfred Emanuel  
Smith 
, Jr 
BONUS: What other New York Democrat, who died in 2011, was a member of a losing presidential 
election ticket in the 1980’s? 
ANSWER: Geraldine  
Ferraro 
001-11-31-11103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
This dynasty’s original capital was at Harran and they defeated a force belonging to the Tang 
Dynasty at the Battle of Talas. One splinter group from this dynasty that ruled Transoxania 
descended from the Samanid general Alptigin and was known as the Ghaznavid Dynasty. This 
dynasty was established in a battle in which the forces of Marwan II lost to the army of as-Saffah 
called the Battle of the (*) 
 Zab. Abd ar-Rahman III established a capital of Cordoba to rival this dynasty. 
Later, this dynasty was effectively destroyed when their capital was sacked by Hulagu Khan of the Mongol 
Empire. For 10 points, name this dynasty with its capital in Baghdad that in 750 overthrew the Umayyads. 
ANSWER:  
Abbasid 
 Caliphate [accept equivalents for caliphate like empire or dynasty] 
BONUS: Which city, now home to Bashar Assad, was the seat of the earlier Umayyad Caliphate? 
ANSWER:  
Damascus 
064-11-31-11104 
5.  
One of these speeches quoted Charles Evans Hughes’ statement that “we are under a Constitution, 
but the Constitution is what the Judges say it is.” The first of these speeches, which ended with the 
phrase “together we cannot fail,” exhorted the American public to have faith in the banks. The titles 
of some of these speeches, which sometimes began with the phrase (*) 
 “Good evening, friends,” 
included “On the Declaration of War with Japan” and “Outlining the New Deal Program.” For 10 points, 
name this series of radio speeches given by Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
ANSWER:  
fireside chat 
s 
BONUS: A fireside chat given the eve of D-Day was actually entitled on the fall of what city? 
ANSWER:  
Rome 
024-11-31-11105 
6.  
After World War I, this country disarmed on the orders of Mihaly Karolyi during the Aster 
Revolution and redefined its borders in the Treaty of Trianon. At the end of World War II, it was led 
by the Arrow Cross Party of Ferenc Szalasi (FAIR-ens ZAWL-ah-see). The Nazis had earlier wrested 
control of this country from one-time ally (*) 
 Miklos Horthy, who had been in power since overthrowing 
Bela Kun’s (BEY-lo KOONZ) communist regime in 1918. After World War II, Janos Kadar (YAW-nawsh 
KAH-dahr) and Imre Nagy (IM-ray NOJ) seized power from Matyas Rakosi (MAHT-yash 
“ROCK”-oh-zee) before Soviet tanks stopped their 1956 attempt to withdraw from the Warsaw Pact. For 
10 points, name this country that, prior to World War I, was part of a dual monarchy with Austria. 
ANSWER:  
Hungary 
 [or  
Magyar 
orszag] 
BONUS: Which food was used as an adjective to describe the relatively loose variety of communism that 
prevailed in Hungary in the 1970’s and ‘80s? 
ANSWER:  
Goulash 
079-11-31-11106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
This politician declared that he was “baffled” by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. He was the 
first Vice President to have his own office in the White House. In the aftermath of the Apollo 1 fire, 
he questioned NASA Administrator James Webb about the existence of the Phillips Report. He 
criticized Gary Hart’s policies by using the slogan (*) 
 “Where’s the beef?” to win the Democratic 
nomination for an election in which he chose Geraldine Ferraro as his running mate. For 10 points, name 
this loser of the 1984 presidential election, who served as Jimmy Carter’s Vice President. 
ANSWER: Walter Frederick  
Mondale 
BONUS: What state did Mondale represent in the Senate from 1964-1976? 
ANSWER:  
Minnesota 
024-11-31-11107 
8.  
In 1999, a powerful north-facing green laser was added to this building. In 1894 it was nearly 
bombed by French anarchist Martial Bourdin, who inspired the character of Stevie in Conrad’s  The 
Secret Agent . This building was often called the Flamsteed House, and was built by (*) 
 Christopher 
Wren in 1685. It is the namesake of a time system that is equivalent to Coordinated Universal Time. For 10 
points, name this historical residence of the Astronomer Royal, a building whose location is the basis for 
the Prime Meridian. 
ANSWER:  
Greenwich Observatory 
 [or  
Royal Observatory 
, Greenwich] 
BONUS: During World War II, some departments of the Greenwich Observatory were relocated to what 
city in Western England, most known for its Roman heritage and “wife” of this city in a famous story? 
ANSWER:  
Bath 
015-11-31-11108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 11 
Third Quarter 
INDEPENDENCE IN THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE 
Identify these things related to independence movements in the Western Hemisphere 
A. The “Liberator” who led independence movements in much of South America. 
ANSWER: Simon  
Bolivar 
B. The freed slave who led a successful revolt in Haiti. 
ANSWER: Francois Dominique Toussaint  
L'ouverture 
C. The country from which Panama gained independence in 1903. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Colombia 
D. The post-independence country consisting of parts of Colombia, Venezuela, Panama ruled by Simon 
Bolivar. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
New Granada 
E. The Irish revolutionary who led the Chilean independence movement. 
ANSWER: Bernardo  
O’Higgins 
 Riquelme 
F. The priest captured and killed for his revolutionary activities during the Mexican War of Independence. 
ANSWER: Miguel  
Hidalgo 
 y Costilla 
G. The author whose poems were the basis for the Cuban national anthem. 
ANSWER: Jose Julian  
Marti 
 Perez 
H. The first emperor of Mexico. 
ANSWER:  
Agustin 
 de  
Iturbide 
 (accept either underlined part) 
064-11-31-1110-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
INDEPENDENCE OF INDIA 
Identify the following about the independence of India. 
A. The advocate for satyagraha assassinated by Nathuram Godse. 
ANSWER:  ohandas Karamchand  
M Gandhi 
B. The year India was declared an independent nation. 
ANSWER:  
1947 
C. The primarily Muslim nation declared independent five minutes before India. 
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of  
Pakistan 
D. The last Viceroy of India. 
ANSWER: Louis Francis Albert Victor Nicholas George  
Mountbatten 
, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma 
E. The independence movement leader thought to have died in a plane crash in Taiwan. 
ANSWER: Subhas Chandra  
Bose 
F. The Viceroy of India whose agreement with Gandhi suspended the civil disobedience of salt satyagraha. 
ANSWER: Lord  
Irwin 
 [or Viscount  
Halifax 
; or E. F. L.  
Wood 
, 1st Earl of Halifax] 
G. The line used to divide the nations of India and Pakistan. 
ANSWER:  
Radcliffe 
 Line 
H. The 1912 plot that aimed to kill Lord Hardinge, then the Viceroy of India, by throwing a bomb at him. 
ANSWER:  
Delhi 
-Lahore Conspiracy 
088-11-31-1110-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
PORTUGUESE HISTORY 
Answer the following about the history of Portugal 
A. This capital city of Portugal was struck by a massive 1755 earthquake. 
ANSWER:  
Lisbon 
B. Joao I transferred his royal court to this Portuguese colony in 1807. 
ANSWER:  
Brazil 
C. Portugal aided the U.K. and Spain in this war against Napoleonic France. 
ANSWER:  
Peninsular 
 War 
D. This king, and his heir Luis Filipe, was assassinated in 1908. 
ANSWER:  
Carlos I 
 of Portugal [or  
Carlos the Diplomat 
; or  
Carlos the Martyr 
; prompt on  
Carlos 
] 
E. This revolution resulted in the overthrow of Prime Minister Marcelo Caetano. 
ANSWER:  
Carnation 
 Revolution 
F. Caetano was the second prime minister of this Portuguese regime; the first was Antonio de Oliveria 
Salazar. 
ANSWER:  
Estado Novo 
G. 1580 saw a succession crisis in Portugal after the death of this King. 
ANSWER:  
Sebastian 
 I of Portugal [or  
Sebastiao 
 I] 
H. This Portuguese political party has had among its prime ministers Jose Socrates, Antonio Guterres, and 
Mario Soares. 
ANSWER: Portuguese  
Socialist 
 Party 
088-11-31-1110-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 11 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
Elizabeth I banned the production of plays on Thursdays because they interfered in this activity, 
and she overruled Parliament when a law was proposed banning this activity. In 1583, the Puritans 
attempted to stop this activity after several spectators (+)  died when a stand collapsed during an 
occurrence of this activity at the Paris Gardens. The most famous animal involved in this activity was 
named Sackerson. Typically, the animal in question would be tied to a post, and (*) 
 dogs would be set 
on it. For 10 points, name this activity in which bears are tormented for sport. 
ANSWER:  
bear-baiting 
024-11-31-11101 
2.  
According to Herodotus, his mother Agariste dreamed she'd given birth to a lion a few days before 
his actual birth, while this man’s father Xanthippus was once ostracized. This man is paired with 
Fabius Maximus in Plutarch’s  Parallel Lives . Critics of this ruler often attacked his (+)  lover, a 
probable courtesan named Aspasia. This man ordered construction of a third long wall after 
agreeing to hand over Megara in the Thirty Years Peace. Allies of his former rival Cimon denounced 
this man’s expensive plan to begin construction on the (*) 
 Parthenon, and he entered Athens into the 
Peloponnesian War. For 10 points, name this Athenian ruler who gives his name to the Golden Age of 
Athenian democracy. 
ANSWER:  
Pericles 
094-11-31-11102 
3.  
One event in this city was triggered by the misfortunes of Dick Rowland. This city was the home of 
the International Petroleum Exposition, thanks in part to its oil industry created by the discovery of 
oil at Red Fork and Glenn Pool. Cyrus Avery, \"the father of Route 66\", is associated with this city 
where he spent most of his life. Waite (+)  Phillips's residency in this city became its Philbrook art 
museum. It contains Greenwood, which was known as the \"The Black Wall Street\" and the site of 
this city's 1921 race riots. This city is the home of (*) 
 Oral Roberts University. For 10 points, name this 
city in northeastern part of Oklahoma, the second largest in the state. 
ANSWER:  
Tulsa 
001-11-31-11103 
4.  
One conflict in this state was initiated by an attack on its namesake resident, Thomas Cresap, 
while another conflict here was Coode's Rebellion. That rebellion was launched in part because this 
state had thus far failed to recognize the new rulers of England who had taken power during the (+) 
Glorious Revolution, perhaps because many of the residents of this state were of a religion notably 
supported by this state's Toleration Act. Founded in part as a haven for (*) 
 Catholics by the Calvert 
family, for 10 points name this state whose largest city is also named for a member of that family, Lord 
Baltimore. 
ANSWER:  
Maryland 
081-11-31-11104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
A table this man published listing the lengths of chords in a circle is the earliest surviving 
expansion of a trigonometric function into a table. He innovatively included thousands of longitudes 
and latitudes the world map included in his (+)   Geographia . In another field, this thinker posited 
“epicycles” to account for irregularities in his model of the universe as a series of nested spheres. The 
shift from that model to (*) 
 Copernican thought was posited by Thomas Kuhn as a paradigm shift. For 10 
points, name this Greek-Egyptian mathematician and astronomer whose conception of the cosmos 
prevailed for over a millennium. 
ANSWER: Claudius  
Ptolemy 
015-11-31-11105 
6.  
The brother of one man killed at this battle was named Tostig, and himself was killed weeks before 
this battle. One force in this battle was initially deployed on Senlac Hill, and one battle that preceded 
this one was at (+)  Gate Fulford, while another took place north of the site of this battle and featured 
an invading force led by Harald Hardraada of Norway. That battle, Stamford Bridge, had weakened 
one side in this conflict, who were led by (*) 
 Harold Godwinson, and this battle is famously depicted by 
the Bayeux Tapestry. For 10 points, name this 1066 battle in which Harold's English force was defeated by 
the Norman army of William the Conqueror. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Hastings 
081-11-31-11106 
7.  
This group worked to set up cells in automobile plants, and issued frequent communiques 
explaining their killings, including that of American NATO officer James Dozier. Arrests and a 1984 
split into the Fighting Communist Party and the Union of Fighting Communists led to the decline of 
this group, which to that point had killed about fifty people and “kneecapped” many others. This 
group was first organized at the University of (+)  Trento by a couple that included Margherita 
Cagol, and, under the leadership of Renato Curcio, participated in the Years of Lead by killing 
former prime minister (*) 
 Aldo Moro. For 10 points, name this Communist militant group which was 
active in Italy. 
ANSWER: the  
Red Brigades 
 [or  
Brigate Rosse 
] 
019-11-31-11107 
8.  
This action was officially endorsed by Francis Pierpont with the consent of the Reorganized 
Government. Senators Waitman Willey and John Carlile argued in favor of this action. When 
signing the bill approving it, (+)  Lincoln distinguished between \"secession against the Constitution, 
and secession in favor of the Constitution.\" It was discussed at conventions in (*) 
 Wheeling. For 10 
points, name this action that resulted in the creation of the thirty-fifth state after its inhabitants voted to 
break away from a seceding state. 
ANSWER:  
admission 
 of  
West Virginia 
 to the Union [or equivalents mentioning  
state 
hood for  
West 
Virginia 
; or  
dismemberment 
 of  
Virginia 
; or equivalents mentioning  
West Virginia 
 breaking away from 
Virginia] 
003-11-31-11108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 11     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
