2013 VHSL Districts 
Round 3 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The D1 and D2 proteins bind to this compound, which can be synthesized from succinyl-CoA and 
glycine. This compound includes a phytol chain composed of twenty carbons, and it consists of a porphyrin 
(POR-fu-rin) ring coordinated with a magnesium atom. This compound, which comes in P680 and P700 
types, is found in the thylakoid membrane and is used by plants to absorb light. For 10 points, identify this 
green pigment found in plants. 
ANSWER:  
chlorophyll 
189-12-73-03101 
2. In one of this author’s poems, the speaker describes the items his sister Isabel has woven. That poem, 
“my sweet old etcetera,” appears in his collection  
is 5. 
 This author was arrested and sent to a French prison 
camp during World War I, an experience described in his novel  
The Enormous Room. 
 He described “how 
children are apt to forget to remember” in “anyone lived in a pretty how town.” For 10 points, name this 
American poet, who may be best known for his unusual capitalization. 
ANSWER: E. E.  
Cummings 
 [or Edward Estlin  
Cummings 
] 
140-12-73-03102 
3. This man found more time to write after colony-taxer Charles Townshend hired him as a tutor. He 
argued that the “impartial spectator” inside each person judges actions in his  
Theory of Moral Sentiments. 
In another book, he explained that a factory produced forty-eight thousand pins per day due to the division 
of labor and that economic self-interest guides society through the “invisible hand.” For 10 points, name 
this philosopher who wrote the anti-mercantilist  
The Wealth of Nations. 
ANSWER: Adam  
Smith 
019-12-73-03103 
4. The protagonist of one of this author's plays refuses to recant when brought to court for telling a friend to 
burn a horrible sonnet he recited about \"Phillis.\" This author died onstage playing Argan, a hypochondriac. 
Alceste leaves civilization for the wilderness at the end of one of this man's plays, and in another, the title 
impostor poses as a religious advisor to seduce Orgon's wife. For 10 points, name this French playwright of 
the comedies  
The Misanthrope 
 and  
Tartuffe. 
ANSWER:  
Moliere 
 [or Jean-Baptiste  
Poquelin 
] 
080-12-73-03104 
5. Longterm sufferers of this disease can develop CMV esophagitis and mycobacterium avium complex. 
Classes of drugs used to treat it include integrase inhibitors and fusion inhibitors. People who suffer from it 
can display Kaposi (kuh-PO-see) sarcoma tumors in their mouths. This disease is caused due to a 
destruction of CD4 T-helper lymphocytes by a retrovirus. Sixty-eight percent of its cases occur in 
Sub-Saharan Africa. For 10 points, name this disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus. 
ANSWER:  
AIDS 
 [or  
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
; prompt on  
human immunodeficiency 
virus infection 
 until it is read; prompt on  
HIV 
 until it is read] 
052-12-73-03105 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  1 of 9 
6. This novel features the death by drowning of Cheswick and a fishing trip with the prostitute Candy Starr. 
Characters in this book vote twice on whether to watch the World Series on television. This book about 
“Acutes” and “Chronics” is narrated by the half-Indian Chief Bromden, who tells of Randle McMurphy’s 
lobotomy after weeks of resistance to the evil Nurse Ratched. For 10 points, name this novel about life in a 
mental hospital, a work by Ken Kesey. 
ANSWER:  
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest 
104-12-73-03106 
7. This theory uses mathematical light cones as explanatory tools on Minkowski diagrams. The reciprocal 
of the square root of one minus beta squared, where beta is a speed ratio, is the namesake \"factor\" in this 
theory’s Lorentz transformations. It predicts length contraction and time dilation as objects come near the 
unattainable speed of light. For 10 points, name this theory which assumes that there is no privileged frame 
of reference and was proposed by Einstein before its general variant. 
ANSWER: Einstein's theory of  
special relativity 
 [prompt on  
relativity 
] 
104-12-73-03107 
8. This character is found in the Cotton Nero manuscript. Created by the Pearl Poet, his real name is 
Bertilak de Hautdesert. He is given the task of upsetting Queen Guinevere, for which purpose he is 
transformed by Morgan le Fay, Arthur's half-sister and nemesis. He ominously grinds an axe unseen while 
preparing to complete the beheading contest he initiates. For 10 points, name this chivalric character who 
tests Sir Gawain in the fourteenth-century poem bearing his colorful name. 
ANSWER: the  
Green Knight 
045-12-73-03108 
9. This actress recorded a version of \"Baby It's Cold Outside\" for the movie  
Elf, 
 in which she played Jovie. 
In a different movie, Tom Hansen, played by Joseph Gordon Levitt, falls in love with a character played by 
this woman. In one television series, this woman plays a character who lives in an apartment with three 
guys and is named Jess. For 10 points, name this \"adorkable\" female lead in  
New Girl 
 and  
500 Days of 
Summer. 
ANSWER:  ooey  
Z Deschanel 
 [prompt on  
Deschanel 
] 
149-12-73-03109 
10. This President was nominated at Chicago's Blackstone Hotel in the so-called \"smoke-filled room.\" 
Thomas Walsh investigated this President's Interior Secretary Albert Fall for leasing Navy land. The first 
President to carry the new female vote, he promised a \"return to normalcy,\" though his approval soured due 
to the Teapot Dome scandal. For 10 points, name this Republican President whose death from emphysema 
in 1923 led to Calvin Coolidge's presidency. 
ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel  
Harding 
104-12-73-03110 
11. This man wrote about a sixty-nine-year-old who eats bananas to ease digestive pain and listens to 
recordings of his life in  
Krapp’s Last Tape. 
 He wrote two windows into the stage directions of a play in 
which two legless characters live in trash bins. He originally used French for a play in which Lucky is kept 
on a leash by Pozzo while two tramps sit by a tree. For 10 points, name this absurdist who wrote about 
Vladimir and Estragon in  
Waiting for Godot. 
ANSWER: Samuel  
Beckett 
 [or Samuel Barclay  
Beckett 
] 
104-12-73-03111 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  2 of 9 
12. This country had a secret police force called the DINA, which ran Operation Colombo. One leader of 
this country employed a number of American-educated economists called the Chicago Boys. Another 
president of this country came to power with the Popular Unity party before being killed in a military coup 
in 1973. For 10 points, name this South American country once under the socialist rule of Salvador Allende 
(eye-END-ey) and the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet (pee-no-SHAY). 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Chile 
 [or Republica de  
Chile 
] 
153-12-73-03112 
13. In a speech in August 2012, this man said that \"we choose respect over love,\" and \"we are taking our 
country back.\" This politician said that he didn't care about \"Presidential politics\" on Fox News when Steve 
Doocy asked him about possibly meeting with Mitt Romney to survey damages. This keynote speaker at 
the 2012 Republican National Convention was photographed arm in arm with Barack Obama after 
Hurricane Sandy. For 10 points, name this governor of New Jersey. 
ANSWER: Christopher James  
Christie 
023-12-73-03113 
14. In one work set in this city, Agricola Fusilier and Joseph Frowenfeld disagree about slavery in talks 
with Honore (ah-NOR). In another work set in this city, Paradise hot dogs are sold by the lazy Ignatius J. 
Reilly. This city is the setting for George Washington Cable's  
The Grandissimes 
 (GRON-diss-eemz) as 
well as a novel by John Kennedy Toole. For 10 points, name this southern setting of  
A Confederacy of 
Dunces, 
 which depicts the vibrant life of this city's French Quarter. 
ANSWER:  
New Orleans 
023-12-73-03114 
15. One way to traverse this boundary is through the Blackpool Crossing. It is also crossed by the Blue 
Water Bridge and the Ogdensburg-Prescott Bridge. This boundary includes a northward prominence at the 
Northwest Angle within Lake of the Woods, then runs concurrent with the 49th parallel westward to the 
Pacific. For 10 points, identify this longest unmilitarized border in the world, which separates two North 
American countries. 
ANSWER:  
U.S.-Canada 
 border [or obvious equivalents] 
019-12-73-03115 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Districts 
Round 3 
Directed Round 
1A.  Which Major League Baseball team, which plays at a stadium nicknamed the \"Friendly Confines,\" has 
been managed in the past by Dusty Baker and Lou Piniella? 
ANSWER: Chicago  
Cubs 
 [prompt on  
Chicago 
] 
1B.  What term, which parodies the title of a Thomas More work about an ideal society, refers to a fictional 
world that is undesirable or terrifying, like the societies in  
Nineteen Eighty-Four 
 or  
Brave New World 
? 
ANSWER:  
dystopia 
2A.  What man founded the Union for a Popular Movement and was succeeded by Nicolas Sarkozy as 
president of France? 
ANSWER: Jacques Rene  
Chirac 
2B.  Which Genoese explorer, the namesake of an important \"exchange\" of goods from the Old and New 
Worlds, established a settlement called La Navidad? 
ANSWER: Christopher  
Columbus 
 [or Cristoforo  
Colombo 
; or Cristobal  
Colon 
] 
3A.  What chemist discovered the covalent bond and names dot structures used to model the bonding 
between atoms and electron pairs? 
ANSWER: Gilbert Newton  
Lewis 
3B.  Which invertebrate phylum, whose members exhibit radial symmetry, includes sea cucumbers and 
starfish? 
ANSWER:  
echinodermata 
 [or  
echinoderms 
] 
4A.  Newton's method is an iterative method for finding what points that, when input to a given function, 
result in an output of zero? 
ANSWER:  
root 
s of a function [prompt on  
zero 
es of a function] 
4B.  What is the term for the portion of the Earth that contains the crust and the upper mantle, thus lying 
directly above the asthenosphere? 
ANSWER:  
lithosphere 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What number or numbers are excluded from the domain of 
the function defined by y equals the quantity x squared plus four x plus three, all over the quantity x 
squared minus four x minus five? 
ANSWER:  
-1 and 5 
 [do not accept or prompt on partial answer] 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If the supplementary angle of 6x degrees is 48 degrees, what 
is the value of x? 
ANSWER:  
22 
6A.  What doctrine, introduced in 1823, asserted that no foreign power could colonize North or South 
America without a response from the United States? 
ANSWER:  
Monroe 
 Doctrine 
6B.  Which American school of painting, named for a waterway, was headed by such artists as Asher 
Durand and Thomas Cole? 
ANSWER:  
Hudson River 
 School 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  4 of 9 
7A.  Wenceslas Square is located in what European city on the Vltava (vol-TAH-vuh) River, the capital of 
the Czech Republic? 
ANSWER:  
Prague 
7B.  A heap is a special type of what data structure, which has nodes called leaves? 
ANSWER:  
tree 
s 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the cosine of the inverse tangent of the square root of 3. 
ANSWER:  
1/2 
 [or 0 ] 
.5 
8B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If two six-sided dice are thrown, what is the probability the 
sum of their faces will be an even number less than 7? 
ANSWER:  
1/4 
 [or  
9/36 
] 
9A.  Which American psychologist studied self-actualization in developing his namesake \"hierarchy of 
needs\"? 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Maslow 
9B.  What comic operetta by Gilbert and Sullivan is about Frederic and Mabel but is best known for 
containing the song “I am the very model of a modern Major-General”? 
ANSWER:  
The  Pirates of Penzance 
10A.  What law of physics states that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction? 
ANSWER: Isaac  
Newton's Third 
 Law of Motion [prompt on partial answer] 
10B.  What language is spoken in parts of northeastern Spain and is the official language of an autonomous 
community in Spain and in some parts of Navarre? 
ANSWER:  
Basque 
 [or  
Euskara 
] 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Districts 
Round 3 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One scene depicted by this man was also painted by Cabanel and Bouguereau (bah-guh-ROH). In that 
painting of his, Aura is held by the floating Zephyrus in the upper-left, who blows air from his mouth. This 
artist depicted a forest scene in which the Three Graces dance on the left, an allegory of spring. This artist 
of  
Primavera 
 also depicted a red-haired nude goddess covering herself while standing on a seashell. For 10 
points, name this Florentine artist of  
The Birth of Venus 
. 
ANSWER: Alessandro  
Botticelli 
 [or Sandro  
Botticelli 
; or Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni  
Filipepi 
] 
104-12-73-03117 
2. This island chain's namesake company used its southern Lafonia region for extensive sheep farming. An 
isthmus in this chain is home to Goose Green. The wreck of the ship  
General Belgrano 
 lies just outside the 
320-kilometer \"Exclusion Zone\" of this archipelago, whose two namesake islands are separated by a sound. 
Its major city of Port Stanley was once home to a British air base. For 10 points, name this contested 
archipelago east of Argentina. 
ANSWER:  
Falkland 
 Islands [or  
Falklands 
; or Las Islas  
Malvina 
s] 
104-12-73-03118 
3. A gradient in this quantity results in a form of convection named for Marangoni. It is related to radius of 
curvature by the Young-Laplace equation. Alveoli reduce this property by secreting surfactants. This 
property is responsible for the condensation of dew into droplets, and it is also responsible for capillary 
action. For 10 points, identify this attraction between the molecules on the surface of a liquid and other 
nearby molecules, which allows some animals to seemingly walk on water. 
ANSWER:  
surface tension 
189-12-73-03119 
4. This man was replaced as governor by Alfred Cumming in part because John Doyle Lee led a slaughter 
of the Baker-Fancher wagon train in the Mountain Meadows Massacre. This man was the third to join the 
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and he led a group out of Nauvoo, Illinois, to a new state called Deseret. 
For 10 points, name this man who served as the first governor of Utah, and who also succeeded Joseph 
Smith as leader of the Mormons. 
ANSWER: Brigham  
Young 
023-12-73-03120 
5. This creature killed residents of a city as punishment for the murder of Androgeus (an-dro-JAY-us). On 
his way home after killing this creature, one man forgot to change the color of his sails, leading to the death 
of his father. That hero slew this creature with assistance from Ariadne, who provided him with string. This 
beast was finally killed when Theseus entered the center of the Cretan labyrinth. For 10 points, name this 
half-man, half-bull monster from Greek mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Minotaur 
052-12-73-03121 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  6 of 9 
6. One character in this game makes the protagonist agree to marry her after he saves her from the belly of 
Lord Jabu-Jabu. That character, Ruto, ends up being one of the Seven Sages. Near this game’s beginning, 
the Great Deku Tree dies. Accompanied by the fairy Navi, this game’s protagonist sleeps for seven years in 
order to be able to wield the Master Sword and defeat Ganondorf. For 10 points, identify this game in the  
Legend of Zelda 
 franchise, named for an instrument. 
ANSWER:  
The Legend of Zelda:  Ocarina of Time 
192-12-73-03122 
7. In this novel, two characters discuss a dream in which a peasant carrying a sack describes pounding iron. 
The title character’s husband is discovered to be under the influence of the French psychic Landau in this 
novel, which leads him to refuse divorce. This novel ends with Levin finding fulfillment in life through 
faith. Due to her fading relationship with Count Vronsky, the title character commits suicide by throwing 
herself under a train. For 10 points, name this novel by Leo Tolstoy. 
ANSWER:  
Anna Karenina 
140-12-73-03123 
8. The acceleration caused by this kind of force can be determined by creating two similar triangles out of 
the velocity vectors for an object in motion at two points. The acceleration for an object under this force is 
equal to the velocity squared over the length of the radius of the object's travel. This type of force is used 
on cars in roller coaster loops. For 10 points, name this type of force that is center-seeking and opposed by 
the fictitious centrifugal force. 
ANSWER:  
centripetal 
 force [do not accept or prompt on \"centrifugal\"] 
023-12-73-03124 
9. One song in this book’s first chapter has a tune in between that of of “La Cucaracha” and “Oh My 
Darling Clementine.” The mythical Sugarcandy Mountain is a paradise described by Moses in this novel, in 
which Molly is obsessed with ribbons. Alcohol is banned by a set of seven commandments in this novel, in 
which a glue factory kills Boxer and Snowball is purged by Napoleon, his fellow pig. For 10 points, name 
this allegory for Soviet Russia in which George Orwell uses barnyard creatures. 
ANSWER:  
Animal Farm 
104-12-73-03125 
10. Fugacity is often substituted for this quantity when doing calculations with non-ideal gases. For an 
incompressible fluid, this quantity is equal in all parts of the fluid according to Pascal's Principle. The 
solubility of a gas in a liquid is proportional to this quantity for the gas according to Henry's Law. Charles's 
Law keeps this quantity constant, and it is multiplied by volume in the ideal gas law. For 10 points, name 
this quantity measured in pascals, often by a barometer. 
ANSWER:  
pressure 
 [or  
vapor pressure 
] 
190-12-73-03126 
11. This person killed a fig tree when he cursed it for not bearing figs out of season. He claimed that \"no 
prophet is accepted in his own country.\" In another incident, he prays to God to \"let this cup pass from me\" 
before asking, \"What, could you not watch with me one hour?\" in admonishment of his sleeping followers. 
At the marriage at Cana, he turned water into wine. For 10 points, name this religious figure whose life is 
recounted in the Gospels. 
ANSWER:  
Jesus 
 of Nazareth [or Jesus  
Christ 
] 
014-12-73-03127 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  7 of 9 
12. One of this man's campaign slogans was \"Public Office is a Public Trust.\" This politician became 
known as \"the Good\" for his anticorruption policies as governor of New York. As President, he faced the 
Panic of 1893 and controversially sent federal troops to put down the Pullman strike. Despite being derided 
by the slogan \"Ma, Ma, where's my Pa?,\" this man won the 1884 presidential election, beating James G. 
Blaine. For 10 points, name this man, who served two non-consecutive terms as President of the U.S. 
ANSWER: Stephen Grover  
Cleveland 
140-12-73-03128 
13. Alan Strang blinds six of these animals, which he worships, in a Peter Shaffer play. In  
Gulliver's 
Travels, 
 Gulliver begins talking to these animals because they resemble the Houyhnhnms (WIN-ims). 
Babieca is one that appears in  
El Cid, 
 and Rocinante (roh-sin-ON-tay) is another who is a character in  
Don 
Quixote. 
 Richard III offers to trade his kingdom for one of these animals. For 10 points, name this kind of 
animal, about which Anna Sewell wrote  
Black Beauty. 
ANSWER:  
horse 
s 
080-12-73-03129 
14. The Juba talks were an attempt to broker peace with this man's organization. In 1987, this man declared 
that he was a prophet of the Acholi people. He used holy water to convince child soldiers that they are 
bulletproof, and he has attempted to overthrow the government of Yoweri Museveni. Invisible Children 
created a widely watched viral video entitled \"This Man\" 2012. For 10 points, name this indicted war 
criminal and leader of Uganda’s Lord’s Resistance Army. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Kony 
030-12-73-03130 
15. This composer wrote a despairing letter to his brothers called the Heiligenstadt (HI-luh-gunsh-tot) 
Testament. This man directed pianists to hold the pedal down for the entirety of the first movement of a 
sonata that Ludwig Rellstab nicknamed. That sonata by this man reminded Rellstab of night at Lake 
Lucerne. Another work for piano by this composer was titled \"For Elise.\" For 10 points, name this German 
composer who wrote the  
Moonlight Sonata 
 and continued to conduct after going deaf. 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven 
023-12-73-03131 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Districts 
Round 3 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This letter denotes a value that can be approximated as 1/137, the fine structure constant. In statistics, the 
p-value is compared to a quantity denoted by this letter, the statistical significance. In biology, it describes 
a secondary structural motif in which every four amino acids are bound by a hydrogen bond, a type of 
helix. A helium nucleus is known as this type of particle. This letter also designates the highest-ranking 
individual in a social group. For 10 points, name the first letter of the Greek alphabet. 
ANSWER:  
alpha 
140-12-73-03132 
2. A speech given in this city claimed that \"the weak do what they must\" before it subjugated Melos. One 
commander in this city had a vision of a \"wall of wood\" that was interpreted as a call to build a navy. This 
city was connected by the Long Walls to Piraeus, a harbor where it kept its triremes. This city's rank of  
strategos 
 was held by Themistocles, the victor at Salamis. A plague killed its leader Pericles. For 10 points, 
name this ancient Greek city-state known for its democracy. 
ANSWER:  
Athens 
 [or  
Athenai 
] 
104-12-73-03133 
3. The first people to supply instructions to this machine were women such as Kay McNulty. It was built at 
the Moore School of the University of Pennsylvania. Due to John von Neumann's involvement with this 
machine, its first run actually involved computations for the hydrogen bomb. This machine was designed 
by John W. Mauchly and J. Presper Eckert, Jr. to calculate artillery firing tables for the US Ballistics 
Research Laboratory. For 10 points, identify this first general-purpose computer. 
ANSWER:  
ENIAC 
 [or  
Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer 
] 
066-12-73-03134 
4. One structure within this organ includes slit-diaphragms between podocytes, and a U-shaped structure 
within this organ is called the loop of Henle. Another structure in this organ is surrounded by Bowman's 
Capsule, and this organ secretes enzymes like calcitrol and renin. The adrenal glands are found above this 
organ, and its functional unit is the nephron. For 10 points, identify this organ responsible for urine 
production and blood filtration. 
ANSWER:  
kidney 
s 
189-12-73-03135 
5. The historical incident that became the inspiration for this novel was also used as the basis for  
Margaret 
Garner, 
 a play by the same author. Howard and Buglar run away at the beginning of this novel, with the 
dog Here Boy following suit soon after. Paul D’s arrival forces out a ghost in 124 Bluestone Road, but he 
leaves after realizing the main character decapitated her own baby to save her from slavery. For 10 points, 
name this novel about Sethe written by Toni Morrison. 
ANSWER:  
Beloved 
140-12-73-03136 
This is a calculation question. What is the sine of a first-quadrant angle whose cosine is one-third? 
ANSWER:  
two 
 times the square  
root 
 of  
two, over three 
 [or square  
root eight, over three 
; or  
2/3 times 
root 2 
] 
What city contains the Wainwright Building and the Gateway Arch? 
ANSWER:  
St. Louis 
, Missouri 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Districts     3     Page  9 of 9 
