VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 11 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In one poem, this author wrote about a monster that slept “far, far beneath in the abysmal sea.” In 
addition to writing “The Kraken,” this poet wrote an elegy to his late friend Arthur Henry Hallam in which 
he penned the lines “’Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.” This poet of  
In 
Memoriam 
 wrote a poem about how “into the valley of Death rode the six hundred.” For 10 points, name 
this British poet who wrote “The Charge of the Light Brigade.” 
ANSWER: Alfred, Lord  
Tennyson 
140-12-71-11101 
2. Early organizations active in this movement included the Daughters of Bilitis and the Mattachine 
Society. Anita Bryant's \"Save Our Children\" crusade was a backlash against this movement. This 
movement gained momentum from a three-day riot in Greenwich Village that ensued from a raid on the 
Stonewall Inn. The election of Harvey Milk was a milestone in this movement, which enjoyed a small 
success in 2010 with the repeal of \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell.\" For 10 points, name this movement that seeks 
equal treatment for same-sex couples. 
ANSWER:  
gay rights 
 movement [prompt on more specific answers such as  
same-sex marriage 
] 
080-12-71-11102 
3. The man who names the Finals MVP award played for this basketball team. Red Auerbach was a coach 
and general manager for this team. One star player for this franchise had a rivalry with Magic Johnson that 
dated from college. That player served as president of the Indiana Pacers until 2012. Including former 
players Larry Bird and Bill Russell, for 10 points, name this basketball franchise whose current players 
include Kevin Garnett and Rajon Rondo. 
ANSWER: Boston  
Celtics 
 [or  
Boston 
 Celtics] 
186-12-71-11103 
4. This principle cannot apply to particles that have symmetric wavefunctions, such as photons, which are 
classed together as bosons, as opposed to particles that do follow this principle known as fermions. 
According to this principle, the magnetic, principal, orbital, and spin quantum numbers cannot all be shared 
in an atom. For 10 points, name this principle that explains why two electrons in an orbital must have 
opposite spins. 
ANSWER:  
Pauli Exclusion 
 Principle 
023-12-71-11104 
5. One of these pieces by this composer was, like a serenade bearing the same nickname, dedicated to a 
Salzburg family. Another of these pieces by this composer contains a distinctive five-voice fugato and was 
given its popular nickname by Johann Peter Salomon. The only two minor-key works of this type by this 
composer include the 25th and \"the great G minor,\" which opens E-flat, D, D, E-flat, D, D, E-flat, D, D, 
B-flat. For 10 points, the 40th is the penultimate of what set of works, which includes the Jupiter, by 
Mozart? 
ANSWER:  
symphoni 
es by Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
 [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus 
Theophilus  
Mozart symphonies 
; just  
symphoni 
es needed after mention of \"Mozart,\" prompt on a partial 
answer before that] 
020-12-71-11105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  1 of 9 
6. This religion practices both \"external alchemy,\" the transmutation of elements, and \"internal alchemy,\" 
the perfection of the Three Treasures through meditation. One of this religion's teachers could not tell if he 
was a man dreaming he was a butterfly or a butterfly dreaming he was a man. A key concept in this religion 
is a sort of \"action through inaction\" called  
wu wei 
, which was explained by this religion's founder, Laozi. 
For 10 points, name this mystical Chinese religion whose adherents strive to follow \"the Way.\" 
ANSWER:  
Tao 
ism [or  
Dao 
ism] 
080-12-71-11106 
7. Benedikt Schack sang in this range while playing characters such as Tamino in  
The Magic Flute. 
 The 
singer of one for this range tells himself to “put on the costume” and “powder his face” as he prepares to 
perform a show with his unfaithful wife. That aria, “Vesti la giubba,” is sung by the lead character of  
Pagliacci 
 and was sung by Enrico Caruso. “Nessun dorma” is an aria for this range that was sung by a man 
who performed with José Carreras and Plácido Domingo at the 1990 World Cup Final. For 10 points, name 
this vocal range of Luciano Pavarotti. 
ANSWER:  
tenor 
121-12-71-11107 
8. Antibodies to the constituents of this structure are sometimes called lupus anticoagulants. Beta barrel 
motifs are often found in proteins on this structure. Sphingomyelin forms lipid rafts at these structures, 
which are known as sarcolemma in muscle. Phagosomes are formed from material that breaks off this 
structure. The fluid mosaic model describes this structure, which is made up of a phospholipid bilayer. 
Often surrounded by a cell wall, this is, for 10 points, what semipermeable, protective layer which 
surrounds the cell? 
ANSWER:  
plasma membrane 
 [or  
cell membrane 
] 
140-12-71-11108 
9. This author's first novel contains the frame story of Oliver sending Parson Tickletext the “true” story of a 
woman who appears in a work by Samuel Richardson named Pamela Andrews. He also described the 
adventures of the absent-minded Parson Adams and his friend who flees the advances of his employer Lady 
Booby. In another work of his, Blifil's attempts to have the protagonist hanged are foiled after Squire 
Allworthy discovers the protagonist is his sister's son. For 10 points, name this author of  
Joseph Andrews 
and  
Tom Jones. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Fielding 
121-12-71-11109 
10. Thousands of people have been displaced by feuds over cattle in this country's state of Jonglei. In 
January 2012, this country ceased oil production after negotiations with a neighboring country stalled. That 
neighbor currently controls the region of Abyei, though this country claims the land for itself. Ramciel is 
planned to be this country's capital, a role currently held by Juba. For 10 points, name this country which in 
July 2011 voted for independence from its northern neighbor. 
ANSWER:  
South Sudan 
121-12-71-11110 
11. In blood, this type of system occurs naturally through the presence of bicarbonate, which can form 
carbonic acid. The effect of this type of solution can be seen using an equation that takes the log of the 
concentration of the acid divided by the concentration of the conjugate base. That equation for finding the 
pH of one of these solutions is the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation. For 10 points, name this type of 
solution that can be used to keep a relatively constant pH. 
ANSWER:  
buffer 
s 
023-12-71-11111 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  2 of 9 
12. This sub-cabinet level federal agency maintains a highly secured “lock-up room” which must be used 
to view information it produces prior to the official release date. This agency publishes a basket-of-goods 
measure of inflation, the Consumer Price Index. This agency was blasted by former General Electric head 
Jack Welch in September 2012 after it released a favorable monthly report on national job growth. For 10 
points, name this division of the Department of Labor which published official employment numbers. 
ANSWER: the  
Bureau of Labor Statistics 
 [or  
BLS 
] 
019-12-71-11112 
13. One author from this country committed suicide after completing his  
Sea of Fertility 
 tetralogy, the first 
novel of which was  
Spring Snow. 
 The protagonist of a novel set in this country in the 11th century fathers a 
child with Lady Aoi, who dies soon after giving birth. This country was home to the authors of  
The Temple 
of the Golden Pavilion 
 and  
The Tale of Genji. 
 For 10 points, name this country that produced such writers 
as Yukio Mishima and Murasaki Shikibu. 
ANSWER:  
 Japan 
 [or  
Nippon 
; or  
Nihon 
] 
194-12-71-11113 
14. Soren Kierkegaard's university thesis deals with and is titled for this concept. After September 11, 
Graydon Carter proclaimed the \"end of the age\" of this phenomenon. An example of its use in  
Julius 
Caesar 
 occurs when Antony says that Brutus is an \"honorable man.\" The \"dramatic\" variety of this 
phenomenon arises when an audience knows something unknown to the characters, while its \"verbal\" form, 
when harsh, can amount to sarcasm. For 10 points, name this literary term denoting an incongruity between 
what is said and what is really meant. 
ANSWER:  
irony 
 [or verbal  
irony 
; or dramatic  
irony 
] 
080-12-71-11114 
15. Euler's fluid equations assume that this quantity is zero, and the Reynolds number is inversely 
proportional to this quantity. Its kinematic form is found by dividing its dynamic form by density, and those 
forms of this quantity are respectively measured in stokes and poise. This quantity is constant for 
Newtonian fluids, and foods which have a high value for this quantity include mayonnaise and syrup. For 
10 points, identify this quantity which measures a fluid's resistance to flow. 
ANSWER:  
viscosity 
189-12-71-11115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 11 
Directed Round 
1A.  What programming language developed at Sun Microsystems is commonly run on a namesake \"virtual 
machine?\" 
ANSWER:  
Java 
 [do not accept \"Javascript\"] 
1B.  What type of animal is the African trickster god, Anansi? 
ANSWER: a  
spider 
 [or an  
arachnid 
] 
2A.  Unlike s-waves, which cannot travel through the liquid outer core, what kind of seismic waves can 
propagate through all parts of the earth? 
ANSWER:  -waves 
p 
2B.  What country's Leopold II created the Congo Free State, which he exploited for its natural resources? 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Belgium 
 [or Royaume de  
Belgique 
; or Koninkrijk  
Belgie 
] 
3A.  Name this American painter who created a portrait of Paul Revere holding one of his silver wares, as 
well as  
Watson and the Shark 
. 
ANSWER: John Singleton  
Copley 
3B. What river is formed in Pittsburgh when the Allegheny and Monongahela merge together? 
ANSWER:  
Ohio 
 River 
4A.  What union supported craft unionism, was founded by Samuel Gompers, and merged with a rival 
union in 1952? 
ANSWER:  
AFL 
 [or  
American Federation of Labor 
; do not accept or prompt on \"AFL-CIO\" or 
\"American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations\"] 
4B.  What Shakespeare character plays dead at Shrewsbury in  
Henry IV, Part 1 
 and dresses as “Herne the 
Hunter” in  
The Merry Wives of Windsor 
? 
ANSWER: John  
Falstaff 
 [or  
John 
 Falstaff] 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the value of x in the equation log(5x) - log(2) = 2. 
Assume log to be log base 10. 
ANSWER:  
40 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the tangent of 60 degrees in simplest terms? 
ANSWER:  
root 3 over 3 
6A.  Name the scientist who oversaw the “gold foil experiment,” demonstrating the existence of the atomic 
nucleus. 
ANSWER: Ernest  
Rutherford 
6B.  What novel featuring Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty is associated with the Beat movement and was 
written by Jack Kerouac? 
ANSWER:  
On the Road 
7A.  What creator of the Fifth Republic led the Free French Forces during World War II? 
ANSWER: Charles Andre Joseph Marie  
de Gaulle 
7B. In 2012, Chevy Chase announced he was leaving what television show which stars Joel McHale as a 
student at a college named Jeff Winger? 
ANSWER:  
Community 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  4 of 9 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the area of a triangle whose vertices are (2,5), (2,-3), 
and (7, 1). 
ANSWER:  
20 
8B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The Yankees are playing three games against the Mets. The 
Yankees have a 60% chance of winning each game. What is the probability that the Mets win all three 
games? 
ANSWER:  
6.4 percent 
 [or  
8/125 
; or 0 
.064 
] 
9A.  Milton Friedman used the stagflation of the 1970's to argue against this concept. Name this curve, 
according to which inflation and unemployment are inversely related. 
ANSWER:  
Phillips 
 Curve 
9B.  Name this American post-World War II art movement exemplified mainly by Jackson Pollock. 
ANSWER:  
abstract expressionism 
 [prompt on partial] 
10A.  What pig-like creature is the villain of many  
Legend of Zelda 
 games, including  
Ocarina of Time 
 and  
Windwaker 
? 
ANSWER:  
Ganon 
 [or  
Ganondorf 
] 
10B.  What Indo-Aryan language has 28 million speakers in India, mostly in the northwest, and 76 million 
in Pakistan, making it the most common native language even if it is not an official language? 
ANSWER:  
Punjabi 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 11 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In one play by this author, the protagonist asks Mr. Rand why he is not allowed to drive the garbage 
truck, only lift garbage. This creator of Troy Maxson also wrote a play in which the end of a sentence on 
the Parchman Prison Farm results in Boy Willie’s visit to his sister Berniece, who calls on her ancestors 
while playing the title instrument. For 10 points, name this African American playwright whose 
“Pittsburgh Cycle” includes  
Fences 
 and  
The Piano Lesson. 
ANSWER: August  
Wilson 
 [or Frederick August  
Kittel 
] 
014-12-71-11117 
2. One form of laboratory technique is performed partially by using sodium carbonate in the final step of 
the Kjeldahl method, and EDTA is used as a chelating agent in its complexometric form. Bromothymol 
blue and phenolphthalein are frequently used in this technique, which involves the determination of an 
equivalence point. For 10 points, identify this laboratory technique in which an acid or base of known 
concentration is added to a solution of unknown concentration. 
ANSWER:  
titration 
 [accept early buzz of  
acid-base 
 titration] 
189-12-71-11118 
3. In one war, this country's forces used Exocet missiles to sink the HMS  
Sheffield 
. That war, which this 
country lost, ended the government of Leopoldo Galtieri in this country. Another ruler of this country 
received support from the descamisados, or shirtless ones, and ruled with his wife Evita. This country failed 
in its invasion of British territory during the Falklands War. For 10 points, name this South American 
country that three times elected Juan Peron as president. 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
 [or  
Argentine Republic 
; or Republica  
Argentina 
] 
153-12-71-11119 
4. One character in this play relates an anecdote about a boy who ordered “bergin and water” at a bar, 
earning him and his friends free drinks. The acts of this play have titles such as “The Exorcism,” 
“Walpurgisnacht,” and “Fun and Games.” Set at a New England university, this play centers on Nick and 
Honey’s visit to the home of George and Martha. For 10 points, name this play by Edward Albee whose 
title question refers to the author of  
To the Lighthouse. 
ANSWER:  
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
014-12-71-11120 
5. This leader was once kidnapped by Cilician pirates, whom he had crucified after he was rescued. This 
ruler defeated Vercingetorix at the Battle of Alesia. The head of one of this man's enemies was offered to 
him as a gift by Ptolemy XIII. This husband of Calpurnia crossed the Rubicon with one legion and made up 
the First Triumvirate with Crassus and Pompey. For 10 points, name this Roman dictator who was 
assassinated on the Ides of March by Cassius and Brutus. 
ANSWER: Gaius  
Julius Caesar 
 [prompt on  
Caesar 
] 
186-12-71-11121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  6 of 9 
6. This number can be approximated by the infinite series quantity one plus quantity one over n end 
quantities, all raised to the n. The Taylor series of this number raised to the power of x is the sum from n 
equals zero to infinity of x to the n divided by n factorial. When raised to the power of x, it is also equal to 
its own derivative. This number is the base of the natural logarithm. For 10 points, identify this number 
whose symbol derives from the name of the first person to calculate it, Euler. 
ANSWER:   [or  
e Euler 
's number before it is read] 
066-12-71-11122 
7. Many old guerrilla hideouts can be found in this country's highest mountain, Mount Bia. This country's 
Xieng Khouang Plateau contains an enigmatic Iron Age site called the \"Plain of Jars.\" The Wat Xieng 
Thong Temple is one attraction of its former capital, Luang Prabang. After the communist takeover of this 
country, many of its Hmong people fled to the United States. The Mekong River forms the western border 
of this country, which is in-between Thailand and Vietnam. For 10 points, name this only landlocked 
country of Southeast Asia. 
ANSWER:  
Laos 
 [or the  
Lao People's Democratic Republic 
] 
080-12-71-11123 
8. The creator of this principle explained it further with a thought experiment involving a gamma ray 
microscope scattering rays at an electron. That experiment for this principle shows the trouble in a scientist 
viewing the electron because of the influence of the scientist on the electron's path and momentum. For 10 
points, name this principle developed by Werner Heisenberg that describes the impossibility of knowing 
both an object's position and velocity at the same time. 
ANSWER: Heisenberg  
uncertainty 
 principle [or  
indeterminacy 
 principle] 
023-12-71-11124 
9. The legislature of this island, composed of the \"Legislative Council\" and the \"House of Keys,\" is called 
the \"Tynwald.\" A prestigious motorcycling event called the Tourist Trophy Race, or \"the TT,\" takes place 
here annually. This island's flag depicts three bent legs joined together at their thighs and pointing in 
different directions. This island is the namesake of a breed of cat with a nearly-imperceptible stub of a tail. 
For 10 points, name this possession of the British crown, an island in between Great Britain and Ireland. 
ANSWER: the Isle of  
Man 
080-12-71-11125 
10. Polar reciprocation yields the dual of one of these. Stellation is most commonly performed on these 
things. The Euler characteristic is two for the convex type of these things. There are only five examples of 
these that have congruent, regular polygons for faces and have the same number of faces meeting at each 
vertex; those are the Platonic solids. For 10 points, identify this term for three-dimensional solids. 
ANSWER:  
polyhedra 
 [or  
polyhedron 
] 
066-12-71-11126 
11. One character with this surname wrote a book of short stories loved by his brother before moving to 
Hollywood to write movie scripts. Another character with this surname rides a carousel at the end of the 
novel in which she appears. A third character with this surname travels around New York after being 
expelled from Pencey Prep and rails against “phonies.” For 10 points, name this surname shared by D.B., 
Phoebe, and Holden, the protagonist of J. D. Salinger’s  
The Catcher in the Rye. 
ANSWER:  
Caulfield 
014-12-71-11127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  7 of 9 
12. These structures are produced after the VR transition, where the central zone of the SAM becomes 
active. These structures are supported by a peduncle, which branches off into more than one pedicels. The 
calyx is a layer that helps protect these structures and surrounds the corolla. These structures contain a 
stigma, which is the upper part of a carpel. Birds and insects can carry out pollination of these structures, 
which are only found in angiosperms. For 10 points, name these plant structures, whose colorful parts are 
called petals and can smell nice. 
ANSWER:  
flower 
s 
140-12-71-11128 
13. In this man's most recent book, the protagonist corresponds in his diary with his second personality, the 
Abbe Dalla Piccola. That novel, whose protagonist forges the Protocols of the Elder of Zion, is titled  
The 
Prague Cemetery. 
 In another work by this man, employees at a vanity press use the computer Abulafia to 
generate a fake conspiracy theory they call “The Plan.” In his first novel, Adso of Melk narrates the 
investigation of murders at an abbey. For 10 points, name this Italian author of  
Foucault's Pendulum 
 and  
The Name of the Rose. 
ANSWER: Umberto  
Eco 
121-12-71-11129 
14. In the Aeneid, Juno rationalizes bribing Aeolus because one figure of this name had been killed with 
thunderbolts. Another figure of this name had tower shield and ignored Odysseus in the underworld over 
his failure to win Achilles’s armor. Besides that “Telamonian” hero with this name, Athena killed a 
“Locrian” hero of this name for violating a Trojan priestess. For 10 points, name this name of two Greek 
heroes differentiated as “Greater” and “Lesser”, the latter of whom raped Cassandra. 
ANSWER:  
Ajax 
 [or  
Aias 
; accept  
Lesser Ajax Locrian Ajax 
,  , and  
Oilean Ajax 
 before “tower shield”] 
153-12-71-11130 
15. The Knights of Labor was responsible for killing 28 people of this ethnicity in the Rock Springs 
Massacre. Denis Kearney's Workingmen's Party campaigned on a platform that these people \"must go.\" 
10,000 workers of this ethnicity worked on the Transcontinental Railroad, and they first came over during 
the California Gold Rush. Prejudice against these people led to the passage of a namesake Exclusion Act in 
1882. For 10 points, name this immigrant group, many of whose members fled the Taiping Rebellion. 
ANSWER:  
Chinese 
-American immigrants [or  
Han 
 Chinese] 
080-12-71-11131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 11 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Many of this man’s early poems were written about a woman nicknamed “Squint-Eyed Sarah,” and this 
man wrote love poems such as “The Head of Hair” about Jeanne Duval. One of his works contains the 
section “Tableaux Parisiens.” That work also includes a poem about an animal stranded near the Louvre, 
“The Swan,” as well as the sections \"Wine\" and “Spleen and Ideal.\" For 10 points, name this French poet 
who wrote the collection  
Les Fleurs du Mal. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Baudelaire 
030-12-71-11132 
2. Most types of proteases are named after specific examples of this type of molecule. The most common 
examples of these molecules in nature have the L stereoisomer. One type of these molecules can form 
disulfide bonds to stabilize tertiary structure. Threonine, lysine, and tryptophan are examples of “essential” 
types of these molecules because the human body cannot synthesize them. For 10 points, name these 
molecules, which are chained together in peptide bonds to form proteins. 
ANSWER:  
amino acid 
s 
140-12-71-11133 
3. One of these entities causes the splitting of a spectral line in the Zeeman effect. A potential difference is 
produced across a conductor by a perpendicular one of these in the Hall effect, and the path integral of one 
of these entities around a closed loop is proportional to enclosed current according to Ampere's law. For 10 
points, identify this field whose SI unit is the tesla, which is usually symbolized B and occasionally paired 
with an electric field. 
ANSWER:  
magnetic field 
 [or  -field before mentioned] 
B 
189-12-71-11134 
4. During one of these events, a participant dismissed a weak argument as \"homeopathic soup that was 
made by boiling the shadow of a pigeon that had starved to death.\" These events were arranged after that 
participant declared, \"A house divided cannot stand.\" One participant in these events described the 
\"Freeport Doctrine\" to reconcile his ideas of popular sovereignty with the Supreme Court's decision in the 
Dred Scott case. These events occurred during an 1858 election for a Senate seat in Illinois. For 10 points, 
name this series of debates between the future sixteenth President and his Democratic opponent. 
ANSWER:  
Lincoln-Douglas 
 Debates of 1858 
080-12-71-11135 
5. Dividing the diopter of a lens by four and adding one is a simple way to calculate this quantity. When 
prefixed by \"bio,\" this term can refer to the increase in concentration of toxic chemicals as one progresses 
up the food chain, such as DDT in bald eagles. For a single lens, this quantity can be calculated as the focal 
length divided by the quantity focal length minus object distance. For 10 points, identify this term which 
refers the ratio of image size to object size, which colloquially refers to the amount of enlargement of an 
image. 
ANSWER:  
magnification 
 [accept word forms such as  
magnify 
ing] 
066-12-71-11136 
This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the coordinate of the center of a circle that contains the 
points (1, 1), (1, 5), and (7, 5)? 
ANSWER: ( 
4, 3 
) 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     11     Page  9 of 9 
