NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 TOSSUPS  
1. One place of this name was home to a nymph named Adrasteia and her sister. The Curetes  
danced and made loud warlike noises in one location of this name. A golden cloud atop a place  
of this name hides Hera's seduction of Zeus midway through the  Iliad ; that place of this name  
contains the headwaters of the Scamander river and the spot where a god disguised as an eagle  
abducted Ganymede. A cave in a more southerly place of this name was home to the goat  
Amalthea and a horn of plenty, which fed a hidden child of Rhea. For 10 points, give this name  
shared by a mountain near Troy and the mountain on Crete where baby Zeus was raised.  
ANSWER: Mount  Ida  [accept Cretan  Ida ; accept Phrygian  Ida ; accept any answer indicating a  
cave on Mount  Ida  until \"cloud\" is read; prompt on  Crete  until \"seduction\" is read]  
2. This event was exposed by a Kentucky newspaper called the  Western World . Its leaders used  
as a headquarters an island on the Ohio River owned by Harman Blennerhassett. This scheme’s  
leader obtained funding from Carlos Martinez de Irujo y Tacon, a Spanish minister. While its  
leader had early charges dismissed thanks to lawyer Henry Clay, that man eventually faced  
federal charges in a trial supervised by Chief Justice John Marshall. This plot was exposed by  
General James Wilkinson, who sent a letter to President Thomas Jefferson revealing the perfidy  
of his former Vice President. For 10 points, name this 19th century conspiracy to create an  
independent nation in the American Southwest, a scheme led by the killer of Alexander  
Hamilton.  
ANSWER: The Aaron  Burr  plot  
3. Two sets of these images by this artist were accompanied by Neo-Latin verses penned by  
Benedict Chelidonius. One of these artworks, which amusingly contains a waterspout with a  
rooster on the handle, a flute player, and a beer drinker, is titled  The Men's Bath House.  The  
creator of these artworks sued Marcantonio Raimondi for ripping them off and using the artist's  
signature. Most of these artworks by this artist appear in series such as the  Great Passion  and the  
Little Passion.  A bow and empty scales are carried by Pestilence and Famine in the most famous  
of them. For 10 points, name these images, such as  The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse,  that  
were carved onto plant tissue by the Renaissance German artist of  Melancolia I.   
ANSWER: Albrecht  Dürer's woodcut s [prompt on  woodcut s; prompt on Dürer's  prints ]  
4. This philosopher describes memory as the result of successive abstractions from the \"rinds\" of  
a perceived object. A school of thought based on this man's ideas was attacked in  On the Unity of  
Intellect  by Thomas Aquinas. Siger of Brabant was a proponent of the \"monopsychist\" school  
based on this man's thought, which advocated \"double truth.\" This man's most famous work  
begins with four proofs of the pre-existence of the world. This philosopher wrote Middle and  
Long Commentaries on Plato's  Republic  and many of Aristotle's treatises, for which he was  
dubbed \"The Commentator.\" He responded to al-Ghazali's  The Incoherence of the Philosophers  
in his  The Incoherence of the Incoherence . For 10 points, name this Islamic philosopher from  
Cordoba.  
ANSWER:  Averroes  [or  Ibn Rushd ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 TOSSUPS  
5. Charles McEwen Hyde wrote that the most notable resident of this island was \"a coarse dirty  
man,\" which prompted a literary rebuttal from Robert Louis Stevenson. Jack London wrote that  
this island was an \"accident of fate,\" but that he did not need to wear \"long gauntleted gloves\"  
while visiting this island. It is the only site in the United States where two Roman Catholic saints  
resided for a significant period of time. A historical park on this island contains a facility whose  
residents were advocated for by local celebrity Don Ho. This island's colony of Kalaupapa was  
where the saints Marianne Cope and Father Damien attended the ill for many years. For 10  
points, name this Hawaiian island best known for once having a leper colony located on it.  
ANSWER:  Molokai   
6. A female addressee in this poem is told, \"Nay, smile not at my sullen brow, Alas! I cannot  
smile again.\" Alphonse de Lamartine, dissatisfied with this poem's conclusion, published a \"last  
stanza\" for it. This poem describes a place with \"society, where none intrudes,\" which incites the  
speaker to rhapsodize, \"I love not Man the less, but Nature more,\" in its \"Apostrophe to the  
Ocean.\" This poem's author, who is essentially indistinguishable from the title character,  
provides a description of a Spanish bullfight and being shipwrecked in Albania, and its fourth  
canto describes tours through Ferrara, Florence, and Rome. For 10 points, name this long  
narrative poem ostensibly about a young noble's travels through Europe, written by Lord Byron.  
ANSWER:  Childe Harold's Pilgrimage   
7. This was the name of a city that rose to power by dominating trade along the Klyazma River  
after its prince Andrew the Pious burnt down Kiev. A grand prince of this name, who recounted  
killing 200 princes of the Cumans in his  Testament , adapted his epithet from his grandfather  
Constantine IX Monomachus. The father of Boris and Gleb, who bore this name, ordered a mass  
baptism in the Dnieper River to inaugurate the Christianization of Kievan Rus. A more notable  
ruler with this first name jailed the president of Yukos, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, during a  
protracted struggle with Russia's \"oligarchs.\" For 10 points, give the first name of the current  
president of Russia.  
ANSWER:  Vladimir  [or  Vladimir  II Monomakh; or  Vladimir  I; or  Vladimir -Suzdal; or  
Vladimir  Putin]  
8. In a Butcher tableau, this method is diagrammed with zeroes in the top row and a one in the  
bottom right. The first step of the Adams-Bashforth methods use this procedure. Huen's method  
is a variant on this procedure though his method's error scales with the interval cubed while this  
one scales with the interval squared. Implicit versions of this method and its variations are used  
for stiff equations. It is a first-order Runge-Kutta method. It corresponds to truncating the  
function's Taylor series to two terms, so the function evaluated at x plus delta x is equal to its  
value at x, plus delta x times the derivative at x. For 10 points, name this method of numerically  
approximating ODE solutions by approximating the function as linear over small intervals, that  
is named for a Swiss mathematician.  
ANSWER:  Euler 's method [prompt on  Runge-Kutta  methods until it is read] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 TOSSUPS  
9. Hirofumi Uzawa proved that for a specific model of this phenomenon to hold, technology  
must be Harrod neutral, or labor augmenting. The AK model of it violates one of the \"stylized  
facts\" summarized by Nicholas Kaldor. Oded Galor's unified theory of this phenomenon seeks to  
explain how humans escaped the Malthusian trap. Thomas Piketty argued the return to capital is  
almost always greater than the rate of this phenomenon in  Capital in the 21st Century,  leading to  
stored wealth increasing relative to national income. The savings rate is taken as fixed in an  
exogenous model of this, and that model also predicts eventual convergence of this  
phenomenon's rate. For 10 points, name this phenomenon modeled by Robert Solow, the  
increasing economic output over time.  
ANSWER: economic  growth   
10. The eastern portion of this building includes limewood paneling incorporating a rocket, as  
well as the names of 28,000 deceased American soldiers. A continuous peristyle lies below the  
Stone Gallery surrounding this building's dome. Above the keystones of this building's interior  
arches is the \"Whispering Gallery,\" which produces unusual acoustics. Herbert Mason's  
photograph demonstrating that this building \"Survives\" became a symbol of resilience during the  
Blitz. Tombs in this building include John Donne's and that of the architect himself, above which  
is written in Latin \"Reader, if you seek his monument, look around you.\" For 10 points, name  
this cathedral that was redesigned after the Great Fire of London by Sir Christopher Wren.  
ANSWER:  St. Paul's  Cathedral [or Cathedral Church of  St. Paul  the Apostle]  
11.  At the end of this war, deserters unsuccessfully tried to find refuge in the temple of Eshmun  
in the citadel of Byrsa. The winning commander quoted Homer by saying “A day will come  
when sacred Troy shall perish” while watching the slaughter that ended this war. At its  
conclusion, Hasdrubal prayed for mercy, while his wife threw herself into a fire. After this war, a  
city was legendarily sown with salt by the conquering forces of Scipio Aemilianus, who then  
took over such cities as Mauretania. It was instigated partly because Cato the Elder continually  
proclaimed a certain city must be destroyed. For 10 points, name this war which ended with the  
complete destruction of Carthage by Rome.  
ANSWER:  Third Punic  War [or  Tercium  Bellum  Punicum ]  
12. The orphan drug tetrabenazine can be used to control this disorder, which can be  
pathologically classified using the Vonsattel grading system. Nancy Wexler discovered the cause  
of this disease by linkage analysis. The protein mutated in this disorder is SUMOylated by the  
Rhes protein and binds to HIP1 to mediate clathrin-driven endocytosis. This disease is  
characterized by selective loss of GABAergic neurons in the striatum. This disease is caused by  
an expansion of CAG repeats on chromosome four and is inherited in an autosomal dominant  
fashion. For 10 points, name this neurological genetic disease which usually manifests by age 40  
and causes jerky, uncontrolled movements.  
ANSWER:  Huntington 's disease 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 TOSSUPS  
13. The processes that gave rise to the Laramide orogeny can be studied using this present-day  
plate because it is unusually undergoing flat-slab, or shallow angle, subduction. A very unusual  
triple junction arises due to the fact that this plate is diverging from the Antarctic plate, forming a  
mid-ocean ridge that is being subducted. This plate's northern border with the Cocos plate, with  
which it is part of a triple junction, includes a mysterious \"gore\" in which the Galápagos Islands  
lie. Its subduction is responsible for the Andean orogeny. For 10 points, name this eastern Pacific  
plate that is being subducted by the South American plate and is named for a region in Peru.  
ANSWER:  Nazca  plate  
14. This city’s namesake “great gun,” a gigantic cannon, was melted down to raise money by the  
modernizing Lord William Bentinck. Jean Baptiste Tavernier visited this city in 1665, spreading  
the rumor that there was a mythical “black” structure across the Yamuna River. The most famous  
structure here was created after the birth of Gauhara Begum. Founded by Sikandar Lodi, it was  
where Aurangzeb placed his father in house arrest. This city is the home of the Sikandra, the  
tomb of Akbar the Great. It is also home to the Red Fort and a mausoleum dedicated to Mumtaz  
Mahal, the wife of Shah Jahan. For 10 points, name this city in India where the Taj Mahal is.  
ANSWER:  Agra   
15. A closed-cycle, regenerative form of this device that has an ideal theoretical efficiency uses a  
compressor piston and a displacer, as well as an inert gas, and is based on the Stirling cycle.  
Another type of this device uses phase separation between a concentrated helium-3-rich phase  
floating on top of a dilute helium-4-rich phase for operation. The coefficient of performance for  
these devices is equal to Q-sub-C over quant. Q-sub-H plus Q-sub-C. Szilard and Einstein  
designed an absorption type of these devices with no moving parts. Most modern types of these  
devices use a vapor-compression cycle and a circulating fluid, being essentially a heat pump that  
transfer heats from objects to the surrounding. For 10 points, name these devices that keep their  
contents cool.  
ANSWER: cryo refrigerator  [or cryogenic  freezer ; or  air conditioner ; or cryo cooler  until  
\"cool\" is read; or obvious equivalents; prompt on heat  pump  or heat  engine ]  
16. A piece in this style is based on a cycle of eleven chords and features a secondary rhythm  
kept by the human breath of the voices and winds. One of the first pieces in this style requires its  
performer, \"traditionally...a beautiful girl,\" to arbitrarily play fifty-three phrases of repeated  
eighth notes. As music critic for  The Spectator,  Michael Nyman coined the name for this style.  
Henryk Gorecki and tintinnabulation-enthusiast Arvo Part are the foremost exponents of its  
\"holy\" or \"sacred\" type. This style, which was first used by La Monte Young, is better  
exemplified by  Music for 18 Musicians  and  In C  by Steve Reich and Terry Riley. For 10 points,  
name this simple, repetitive musical style favored by John Adams and Philip Glass.  
ANSWER:  minimal ism [or  minimal  music] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 TOSSUPS  
17. A character in this play tells a story about someone being kicked in the head by a red mare  
but who resists dying for some time afterwards. In its final scene, Shawn is hit by a female  
character, who rejects his offer to have Father Reilly marry them. In this play, the main character  
wins a donkey race using the slowest animal, impressing such women as the barmaid Pegeen.  
The protagonist tells the denizens of Flaherty’s tavern that he has murdered his father, which at  
first brings him praise and then scorn. During its 1907 premiere, this play caused riots at  
Dublin’s Abbey Theatre. For 10 points, name this John Millington Synge play about Christy  
Mahon.  
ANSWER:  The  Playboy of the Western World   
18. This is the occupation held by a man who sends servants to the house of Simon the tanner in  
Joppa. A man in this position states \"I do not deserve to have you come under my roof\" and  
explains that he says \"Do this\" to his obedient servant. In Matthew 8, Jesus heals the servant of  
one of these men in Capernaum, saying there is no one in Israel with such great faith as that man.  
After seeing a vision of a sheet being lowered from Heaven containing \"unclean\" animals, Peter  
meets one of these men named Cornelius, which symbolically opens up the Gospel to the  
Gentiles. According to the Gospel of a Mark, a man in this position says \"Surely this man was  
the son of God!\" after seeing how Jesus died. For 10 points, name this occupation which is held  
by various Roman military men in the New Testament.  
ANSWER:  centurion  [or  centurio ; or  hekatonarch ; prompt on  soldier  or  officer ]  
19. The title woman of a poem by this author asks, \"Is this what you call making me  
comfortable?\" as she is lifted into an ambulance, after which she says, “What are all those fuzzy  
looking things out there? Trees? Well, I’m tired of them.” This poet of \"The Last Words of My  
English Grandmother\" was parodied in a Kenneth Koch poem describing the chopping down of a  
house titled “Variations on a Theme by” this author. His poem set “by the road to the contagious  
hospital” opens the collection  Spring and All,  and he described fruit that was “delicious so sweet  
and so cold” in his poem “This Is Just to Say.” For 10 points, name this poet who wrote, “so  
much depends upon a red wheel barrow.”  
ANSWER: William Carlos  Williams   
20. This man wrote an original Greek-style tragedy which opens as the ghost of Tantalus speaks  
to a Fury and involves the title member of the house of Atreus eating his children. He also wrote  
a satire in which Heracles defends a stuttering man in a trial before the gods, though that emperor  
is sentenced to play dice forever with a bottomless cup. This author of  Thyestes  and  The  
Pumpkinification of Claudius  killed himself in the same year as Petronius and Lucan, after his  
student accused him of a role in the Pisonian conspiracy against the emperor's life. For 10 points,  
name this Stoic philosopher who served as tutor and literary advisor to the emperor Nero.  
ANSWER:  Seneca  the Younger [or Lucius Annaeus  Seneca  the Younger] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 TOSSUPS  
21. A prominent philosopher and statesman of this ethnicity, J. V. Snellman, often had his  
nationalistic work shut down. The Bible was translated into this ethnicity's language by the  
Lutheran bishop Mikael Agricola. The February Manifesto weakened the power of this ethnic  
group, whose land was occupied in the \"Lesser Wrath,\" or  Pikkuviha , following the War of the  
Hats. In 1809, this ethnic group was placed under a \"Grand Duchy,\" whose first capital was  
Turku, under Tsar Alexander I of Russia. For 10 points, name these people whose nationalist  
sentiment grew after Elias Lonnrot collected its folk tales into the epic poem  Kalevala .  
ANSWER:  Finn s [or  Finn ish people; or  Finland ers; or  Suomi ]  
22. Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker at first claimed himself the victor in this event, rather than its most  
notable participant. A participant in this argument asked whether, \"if a lantern were offered to  
[him], [he] should refuse it because it shed an imperfect light.\" A lady, identified as Lady  
Brewster, fainted in shock after that participant made the statement that he would be \"ashamed to  
be connected with a man who used great gifts to obscure the truth\" in response to a question  
about whether it was \"from [his] grandfather's or grandmother's side that [he] claim[ed] descent  
from apes.\" For 10 points, name this 1860 debate between \"Soapy Sam\" and \"Darwin's Bulldog\"  
over a theory of natural selection.  
ANSWER:  Wilberforce-Huxley  debate [or  Huxley-Wilberforce  debate; or 1860  Oxford  
debate on  evolution ; prompt on answers mentioning only one of  Wilberforce  or  Huxley ;  
prompt on answers indicating a debate over  evolution ]  
23. A chapter titled for this character notes that, \"All that most maddens and torments; all that  
stirs up the lees of things\" were \"practically assailable\" in him. This character is the cause of  
\"Rachel, weeping for her lost children, because they were not,\" in another chapter. This character  
is the hearse \"not made by mortal hands.\" Dr. Bunger and his superior argue about their  
encounter with this character. Macey is killed by this character, according to Gabriel, who claims  
that this character is the \"Shaker God incarnated.\" This character only appears in three chapters  
titled \"The Chase.\" For 10 points, name this character who kills most of the crew of the  Pequod,  
a white whale created by Herman Melville.  
ANSWER:  Moby-Dick 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 BONUSES  
1. The title character of this play married a woman named Anna, who converted from Judaism to  
marry him. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 1887 play, whose title character is a government bureaucrat whose wife is dying  
of tuberculosis. It ends abruptly when the title character shoots himself.  
ANSWER:  Ivanov   
[10]  Ivanov  was written by this Russian author, who also wrote such plays as  The Seagull  and  
The Cherry Orchard.   
ANSWER: Anton  Chekhov   
[10] This Chekhov character, an aspiring writer, shoots himself at the conclusion of  The Seagull.   
ANSWER:  Konstantin  Treplev [or Konstantin  Treplev ]  
2. This effect was first observed when changing the lighting levels in a factory boosted  
production. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this effect which occurs when adjustments in the environment cause workers to  
change or improve their behaviors, possibly because they are being watched by psychology  
researchers.  
ANSWER:  Hawthorne  effect [prompt on  observer  effect]  
[10] The Hawthorne effect is important in this field of psychology, which deals with issues at the  
workplace. Psychologists that work in human resources department typically have experience in  
this field of psychology.  
ANSWER:  industrial/organizational  psychology [or  I/O  psychology; or  occupational  
psychology; prompt on  work  psychology; prompt on partial answer]  
[10] I/O psychologists often have to deal with this phenomenon with employees, which can be  
mediated through coping mechanisms. If this psychological phenomenon is severe enough, it can  
manifest with physical symptoms; it is measured on the Holmes and Rahe scale.  
ANSWER:  stress   
3. This substance is synthesized at rosette terminal complexes, and it consists of D-glucose units  
condensing to form beta-1,4 glycosidic bonds. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this indigestible polysaccharide that forms the cell walls of plants.  
ANSWER:  cellulose   
[10] Cellulose is often used as a stationary phase in this form of chromatography, which is better  
at separating non-volatile mixtures than paper chromatography.  
ANSWER:  thin-layer  chromatography [or  TL C]  
[10] In paper, slide, membrane forms, this derivative of cellulose is commonly used to  
immobilize nucleic acids in Northern and Southern blots, and proteins in Western blots.  
ANSWER:  nitrocellulose  [or  cellulose nitrate ; or  flash paper ; or  flash cotton ; or  guncotton ;  
or  flash string ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 BONUSES  
4. This character was re-interpreted in the person of Antoinette Cosway in Jean Rhys's post- 
colonial novel  Wide Sargasso Sea.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this woman who met and quickly married her husband in Jamaica. Usually confined  
to an attic, her mad acts escalate until she burns down Thornfield Hall.  
ANSWER:  Bertha  Mason [or Bertha  Mason ; or  Bertha  Rochester; prompt on  Rochester ]  
[10] This governess, a former resident of the Lowood school, cannot marry Edward Rochester as  
long as Bertha Mason is alive.  
ANSWER:  Jane  Eyre [or Jane  Eyre ]  
[10] This cousin of Jane Eyre, a resident of Gateshead, treats Jane poorly as a child, though they  
make up later in life. This girl's much more religious sister Eliza prevents her from eloping.  
ANSWER:  Georgiana  Reed [prompt on  Reed ]  
5. Name these techniques in optimization, for 10 points each.  
[10] When optimizing subject to equality constraints, one popular method is to set the gradient of  
the function in question equal to one of these constants times the objective function. These  
constants are usually written as lambda and are named for a French mathematician.  
ANSWER:  Lagrange multiplier s [do not accept \"Lagrangians\"]  
[10] A necessary condition for the existence of the Lagrange multipliers is that the gradient of  
the constraint curve at the extremum must not equal this number. If the Wronskian determinant is  
not this value, then solutions of a diff. EQ. are linearly independent.  
ANSWER:  zero   
[10] The simplex method is used in this field of optimization. In this field, the equations being  
optimized are polynomials of degree one constrained by several inequalities.  
ANSWER:  linear programming   
6. These writings, which include eighteen folios on the flights of birds and a hyper-realistic map  
of Imola, are divided into codices named for Trivulzianus, Urbinas, Madrid, Leicester, and  
Arundel. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these extensive writings that include a scientific study of light on a sphere, a sketch  
of a giant crossbow, and a schematic for a manned helicopter.  
ANSWER: Leonardo  da Vinci's notebook s [or  da Vinci's manuscript s; or  da Vinci's note s; or  
da Vinci's sketch es; prompt on  da Vinci's writing s or answers that don't mention notes or  
manuscripts]  
[10] Notes by da Vinci accompany this drawing of his, a superimposition of a man in two  
positions with his limbs inscribed in a square and a circle. It is named for a Roman architect.  
ANSWER:  Vitruvian Man  [or  Canon of Proportions ; or  Proportions of Man ; or  Le  
Proporzioni del Corpo Umano Secondo Vitruvio ]  
[10] Da Vinci's research into the canon of proportions, of which the  Vitruvian Man  was a  
snapshot, culminated in this pulley-and-cable powered creation for a pageant held by Ludovico  
Sforza, Duke of Milan.  
ANSWER: Leonardo's  robot  [or  robotic knight ; or  mechanical knight ; or  automaton ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 BONUSES  
7. This man's  Symphony No. 2  was written in honor of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the  
Russian Revolution. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this composer of the symphonic suite  Masquerade  as well as the ballets  Spartacus  
and  Gayane.   
ANSWER: Aram  Khachaturian   
[10]  Gayane  is best known for containing this playful piece, consisting of a xylophone solo  
against a string backdrop and occasional trombone slides, that is based on an Armenian folk  
song.  
ANSWER: \" Sabre Dance \" [or \" Suserov Par \"; or \" Tanets s Sablyami \"]  
[10] Along with Shostakovich and Myaskovsky, Khachaturian was targeted in the 1948 Zhdanov  
decree, accusing the aforementioned composers of adhering to this non-Stalinist-approved  
musical philosophy, in which the structure of pieces determine their meaning.  
ANSWER:  formalism  [or word forms]  
8. During complex organic synthesis, this property can be preserved by using auxiliaries. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Identify this property of a molecule which prevents it from becoming superimposable on its  
mirror image. This property leads to the formation of enantiomers and diastereomers.  
ANSWER:  chiral ity  
[10] In the Cahn-Ingold-Prelog nomenclature, a chiral center is labelled with one of two letters.  
Name either.  
ANSWER:  or    R  S 
[10] A particularly interesting issue in chiral synthesis is the creation of chiral carbons with this  
property. A carbon is described by this term if it is bonded to four other carbon atoms, and when  
discussing protein structure, this level of structure corresponds to multiple protein subunits  
binding together.  
ANSWER:  quaternary   
9. Characters created by this playwright include Troy Maxson, a retired baseball player who did  
time in jail for murder, and Berniece, who refuses to sell a valuable musical instrument. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this playwright whose  The Piano Lesson  and  Fences  are two entries in his ten-play  
\"Pittsburgh Cycle,\" depicting black life in each decade of the 20th century.  
ANSWER: August  Wilson   
[10] Unlike the rest of the cycle, August Wilson set  Ma Rainey's Black Bottom  among blues  
singers in this city further west. Its \"Sexual Perversity\" was chronicled by David Mamet.  
ANSWER:  Chicago   
[10] This white family owned the black Charles family in the backstory to Wilson's  The Piano  
Lesson.  Selling the piano would allow the Charles family to buy the land from this family, one of  
whose members appears as a ghost to play the piano.  
ANSWER:  Sutter  family 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 BONUSES  
10. This musician reflected on his staggering eight marriages in his autobiography  The Trouble  
with Cinderella.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this jazz clarinetist who played in combos he called the Gramercy Five. His big  
band recorded a popular version of Cole Porter's \"Begin the Beguine.\"  
ANSWER: Artie  Shaw  [or Arthur Jacob  Arshawsky ]  
[10] Shaw's Gramercy Five included Roy Eldridge, who was famed for his use of high registers  
and general virtuosity on this instrument. This instrument was also played by Wynton Marsalis  
and Miles Davis.  
ANSWER:  trumpet   
[10] Eldridge is often treated as a bridge between the styles of Gillespie and this earlier musician,  
a man who recorded \"Heebie Jeebies\" and went by the nicknames Satchmo and Pops.  
ANSWER: Louis  Armstrong   
11. In 1897, this man became secretary of state of the Imperial Navy Department. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this German grand admiral who was the chief architect of the German Navy's buildup  
in the years before World War I.  
ANSWER: Alfred von  Tirpitz   
[10] During World War I, Tirpitz advocated the policy of unrestricted submarine warfare, which  
culminated in the 1915 sinking of this British ocean liner, resulting in the death of 1,198 of its  
passengers.  
ANSWER: RMS  Lusitania   
[10] In this major naval battle of World War I, Admiral John Jellicoe won a tactical victory over  
the German navy.  
ANSWER: Battle of  Jutland  [or Battle of the  Skaggerak ]  
12. Adam Smith critiqued this ideology, which was summarized in Philipp von Hörnigk's treatise  
Austria Over All If She Only Will . For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this dominant economic theory in early modern Europe, which advocated high tariffs,  
an export-heavy or \"favorable\" balance of trade, and the import of gold and silver bullion.  
ANSWER:  mercantilism  [or the  mercantile  system]  
[10] This finance minister to Louis XIV of France advanced mercantilist policies after Nicolas  
Fouquet fell from grace.  
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste  Colbert   
[10] The implementer of mercantilism in Sweden, Queen Christina, scandalized Europe by  
abdicating in tandem with performing this action, which led her to move South.  
ANSWER:  converting to Catholicism  [or equivalents] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 BONUSES  
13. This man helped draft California's state constitution in his role as military secretary of state,  
and he translated Jomini's  History of Napoleon,  which was read by pretty much every Civil War  
general. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this general, nicknamed \"Old Brains,\" an inept General-in-Chief who allowed PGT  
Beauregard to withdraw at the Battle of Corinth.  
ANSWER: Henry Wager  Halleck   
[10] Halleck was deemed \"the most hopelessly stupid of all men in high position\" by this  
commander of the Army of the Potomac, who was also General-in-Chief. He lost the 1864  
presidential election.  
ANSWER: George Brinton  McClellan   
[10] For four months between the terms of McClellan and Halleck, this man served as direct  
commander of all Union armies. He first saw battle as a volunteer in the Illinois Militia during  
the Black Hawk War.  
ANSWER: Abraham  Lincoln   
14. In 2014, a chemical leak in this state contaminated the Elk River, a tributary of the Kanawha,  
and forced residents of Charleston to import bottled water. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Appalachian mountain state.  
ANSWER:  West Virginia   
[10] This type of mining has drastically altered West Virginia's landscape in the past half- 
century. This method uses dynamite to expose coal, blowing off large amounts of land which are  
then filled into valleys.  
ANSWER:  mountaintop removal  mining [prompt on  surface  mining]  
[10] This fast-growing vine with threefold leaflets, an invasive species from China, is spreading  
in West Virginia as it is across the American South. It can smother entire trees.  
ANSWER:  kudzu  [or  Pueraria montana ]  
15. This activity is performed by those who perform an \"aliyah,\" and it is traditional that the first  
person called to do this be a Cohen. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this central activity of the Saturday morning service in a Jewish congregation.  
ANSWER:  reading  from the  Torah   
[10] In modern synagogues, this raised area at the front of the congregation is home to the ark  
where the Torah is stored and the podium from which it is read.  
ANSWER: the  bimah   
[10] On Shabbat, the Torah service comes between  shacharit  and this segment of the service,  
whose Hebrew name means \"additional.\" It often ends with the Aleinu and Adon Olam prayers.  
ANSWER:  Musaf  service  
16. This man was sent to London on an education scholarship by the Umuofia Progressive  
Union, and returned to Lagos after getting a degree in English. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this man, a fictional Nigerian who is arrested on bribery charges after he persuades  
his lover Clara Okeke to get an abortion.  
ANSWER:  Obi  Okonkwo [prompt on  Okonkwo ]  
[10] This Nigerian author of  No Longer at Ease  wrote about Obi's grandfather Okonkwo in  
Things Fall Apart.   
ANSWER: Chinua  Achebe 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 BONUSES  
[10] In this other postcolonial novel by Sudanese author Tayeb Salih, Mustafa Sa'eed recounts  
how his Western education in London led into racially-charged seductions of white women.  
ANSWER:  Season of Migration to the North  [or   Mawsim al-Hi’ra’il ash-Sham’l ]  
17. Tuned mass dampers are a way of cutting down on this effect, and this effect being driven by  
a vortex street was responsible for the Tacoma Narrows Bridge disaster. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this phenomenon that occurs when a system is driven periodically at its natural  
frequency. It occurs at normal modes.  
ANSWER:  resonance   
[10] Resonance typically occurs when this parameter is significantly less than one. It is typically  
represented by zeta.  
ANSWER:  damping  ratio [or  damping  parameter]  
[10] When zeta is much less than one, this technique is used to define the rate at which the  
amplitude of a system decreases. It involves taking the namesake operation on the ratio of two  
successive amplitudes.  
ANSWER: natural  log arithm  decrement   
18. In 1644, the Manchus held sacrifices here to usher in the reign of the Shunzhi Emperor. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name this temple complex in Beijing, centered on the circular hall with three blue gabled  
roofs. Emperors would perform annual sacrifices on a three-tiered marble platform here called  
the Circular Mound Altar.  
ANSWER:  Temple of Heaven  [or  Altar of Heaven ; or  Tiantan ]  
[10] The Temple of Heaven was constructed by this dynasty’s Yongle Emperor. This dynasty  
was defeated by the Manchus.  
ANSWER:  Ming  dynasty  
[10] The Ming also built thirteen of these buildings in a valley northwest of Beijing. These  
buildings were entered through “spirit ways” lined by statues of creatures like the  bixi  tortoise.  
They were desecrated during the Cultural Revolution.  
ANSWER:  tomb s [or  ling ; or  mausoleum s; or other words that mean tomb]  
19. Answer some question about everyone’s favorite giant hundred-headed snake, Shesha, for 10  
points each:  
[10] Shesha is the mount of this member of the Hindu Trimurti, the preserver of said group. This  
god has several avatars, including Krishna and Rama.  
ANSWER:  Vishnu   
[10] Among the incarnations of Sesha are this loyal brother of Rama, who leaves his wife Urmila  
to join his brother in exile. Among his exploits are cutting off the demon Surpanakha’s nose.  
ANSWER:  Lakshman a  
[10] Another avatar of Shesha was this brother and companion of Krishna, who unlike Krishna  
was born fair. He also taught the Pandava Bhima how to fight with a mace.  
ANSWER:  Balaram a 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 4 BONUSES  
20. This man posted the video \"Creationism is Not Appropriate for Children.\" For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this man, who was then invited to debate Creation Museum founder and Answers in  
Genesis leader Ken Ham about creationism and evolution in a February 4, 2014 debate. This  
former television personality has also urged for more work fighting climate change.  
ANSWER: William \"Bill\"  Nye   
[10] The Ham/Nye debate spurred fundraising for Ham's latest project, which plans to construct  
this object in Grant County, Kentucky.  
ANSWER: A replica of Noah’s  Ark  [or  Ark Encounter ; prompt on  theme park ]  
[10] Nye recently vigorously debated climate change with S.E. Cupp on  Crossfire.  Cupp asserts  
membership in this branch of Republicans that supports equal rights for homosexuals.  
ANSWER:  Log Cabin  Republicans  
21. A trap is used while using this laboratory instrument to prevent bumping. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this device which quickly removes solvent from a compound through a  
combination of a heat bath, a vacuum pump, and a motor that spins the flask containing your  
product.  
ANSWER:  rotary evaporator  [or  rotovap ; or  rotavap ]  
[10] Along with evaporation, this is the second kind of liquid vaporization into a gas. This phase  
transition occurs for water at 100 Celsius.  
ANSWER:  boiling   
[10] This part of a rotovap cools gases back into liquid form and allows them to drop into a  
waste container. This same device is used in a reflux to prevent gases from escaping at the top of  
the apparatus.  
ANSWER: reflux  condenser 
