NASAT 2011 
Round 10 
Tossups 
1. One spectator claims he saw the corpse of a young woman shudder when this character bent over her 
coffin and another man says he saw this character walking hand-in-hand with the woman's spirit during her 
funeral procession. This character is appointed to carryout a task by Governor Belcher's administration, and 
he spills wine on the carpet at a wedding after seeing himself in a mirror. On his deathbed Mr. Clark of 
Westbury tries to pressure him to perform a task that leads him to yells \"Why do you tremble at me alone?\" 
This inhabitant of Milford and fiancée of Elizabeth has a notable feature that is described as a \"type and a 
symbol\" and that \"no mortal eye will see it withdrawn.\" For 10 points, name this character who wears a 
black veil in a story by Nathaniel Hawthorne. 
ANSWER: the  
minister 
 [or Mr.  
Hooper 
; or Reverend  
Hooper 
] 
001-11-30-10102 
2. A chapter of this work claims that the main way invisible evil is expulsed from society is through the 
sacrificing of public scapegoats. Another chapter uses the \"Law of Contagion\" in order to describe the 
imitations societies use in practicing a \"sympathetic\" form of a key concept. In another section of this work, 
the author claims that pots filled with clumps of earth and vegetables is evidence that Adonis is a god of 
vegetation. It also discusses sympathetic magic and its relation with fertility cults and the king of the grove. 
For 10 points, identify this \"study in magic and religion\" by James George Frazer. 
ANSWER:  
The  Golden Bough 
033-11-30-10103 
3. This thinker offered his two hands as proof of the existence of external objects. He further repudiated 
skepticism in an essay that offers “truisms” such as “the earth had existed for many years before my body 
was born” to demonstrate that there  
are 
 absolute certainties. This author used the Open-Ended Question to 
argue that “good” cannot be defined in his best-known work. This author of “A Defence of Common 
Sense” and “The Refutation of Idealism” dubbed any attempt to define good a \"naturalistic fallacy.\" For 10 
points, name this British philosopher who penned  
Principia Ethica 
. 
ANSWER: George Edward  
Moore 
079-11-30-10104 
4. Acte helps one character in this novel escape when she is blamed for bewitching a royal daughter who 
died under mysterious circumstances. A character given the title “arbiter of elegance” cuts his wrist with 
Eunice at the end of this novel. The Greek Chilo Chilonides betrays the protagonist by revealing the 
location of a hidden religious colony. In one scene from this novel the giant Ursus strangles a charging bull 
to rescue a girl tied to its back. After falling in love with the slave Lygia, the protagonist of this novel 
converts to Christianity and escapes Nero’s persecution. Titled for Jesus’ apocryphal quote to Peter while 
he is fleeing Rome, for 10 points, name this novel about Marcus Vinicius by Henryk Sienkiewicz. 
ANSWER:  
Quo Vadis 
109-11-30-10105 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. Alvio Renzini developed a diagnostic for these objects formation. A large one of these in the Virgo 
Cluster is M87. Certain parameters describing these are constrained by the fundamental plane. Type II 
supernova have not been observed to occur in these. The brightness of these objects is characterized by De 
Vaucouleur’s Law. The velocity dispersion and luminosity of these are related by the Faber–Jackson 
relation. They are measured on a scale that runs from zero to seven. These objects tend to have little star 
formation because of the lack of interstellar matter, and are composed of old stars with low mass. They can 
be classified according to the ratio of their major and minor axes. For 10 points, name these galaxies which 
are neither lenticular nor spiral. 
ANSWER:  
elliptical galax 
ies [prompt on  
galax 
ies] 
024-11-30-10106 
6. This man took to drinking again after the photographer Hans Namuth stopped documenting his work. In 
one of this man’s early works, a team of oxen can be seen pulling two Conestoga Wagons under a full 
moon. That painting demonstrated the early influence of Thomas Hart Benton and was titled  
Going West 
. 
The symbolic drawings this man created while under Jungian analysis gave birth to works like  
Guardians 
of the Secret 
 and  
The She Wolf 
. This man’s wife painted works in the same genre as him and was named 
Lee Krasner. Best known for works like those in the  
Autumn Rhythm 
 series and  
Lavender Mist 
, for 10 
points, name this Abstract Expressionist often called “Jack the Dripper”. 
ANSWER: Jackson  
Pollock 
 [or Paul Jackson  
Pollock 
] 
094-11-30-10107 
7. One sign of this disease is patients’ use of the Gowers maneuver. A recent therapy for this disease 
involves oligonucleotide-mediated exon-skipping. A similar condition caused by a less-damaging mutation 
in the same gene as this disease is named for Becker. Blood levels of creatine kinase are very high in this 
disease, which also causes dilated cardiomyopathy without heart failure. The gene mutated in this disease 
has 79 exons, and patients exhibit pseudohypertrophy and eventual respiratory failure. The gene central to 
this disease, dystrophin, is located on the X-chromosome, and its mutation leads to wasting and loss of the 
ability to walk. For 10 points, name this X-linked genetic disorder which causes muscle wasting. 
ANSWER: Duchenne  
Muscular Dystrophy 
 or  
DMD 
048-11-30-10108 
8. Charles Alkan published a set of these pieces as his opus 31, which includes one nicknamed \"The Song 
of the Mad Woman on the Sea Shore.\" Jascha Heifetz popularized his own violin transcriptions of the three 
pieces written in this form by Gershwin. Examples of this form by Debussy include \"What the West Wind 
Has Seen\" and \"Footsteps in the Snow.\" Chopin's Opus 28 consists of twenty-four of these pieces, 
including the fourth in E-minor, which was played at his funeral, and the fifteenth, which is known as the 
\"Raindrop.\" Bach paired each of his twenty four fugues with one of these works in  
The Well-Tempered 
Clavier 
, and Rachmaninoff built his reputation on one in G minor and one in C sharp minor. For 10 points, 
name these brief piano pieces which are often prefaces to longer works. 
ANSWER:  
prelude 
s 
015-11-30-10109 
9. One common kenning for these objects was “Ullr’s ship.” In Arthurian mythology, the Lady of the Lake 
gives one of these to Lancelot that cures its owner of exhaustion and gives him the strength of three men. 
King Arthur owned one named Pridwen, and Sir Galahad’s was partially made from the blood of Joseph of 
Arimathea. In Rome, one of these objects called the Ancile was watched by the twelve leaping Salii priests. 
Another of these objects depicts various events in the history of Rome around the Battle of Actium at its 
center, as related in a long ecphrasis; that example was forged by Vulcan for Aeneas. For 10 points, the 
aegis was an example of what defensive weapon? 
ANSWER:  
shield 
s 
015-11-30-10110 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. The  
USS John Adams 
 and the  
USS Vandalia 
 were sent to this country over claims filed against it 
relating to the burning of John Brown Williams’ house. Its first non-interim colonial governor was Sir 
Arthur Gordon. While not originally from this country, Ma'afu established a kingdom here and came into 
conflict with its eventual unifier, Cakobau. The Australian Colonial Sugar Refining Company established 
sugar plantations here, resulting in the importation of laborers from India. Today, over a third of the 
population is descended from those laborers. For 10 points, name this Pacific island nation where a number 
of coups in recent years have occurred in its capital of Suva. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Fiji 
 [or Matanitu ko  
Viti 
] 
001-11-30-10111 
11. An iodinated version of this compound is used to reduce disulfide bridges during protein sequencing 
and to inhibit cysteine proteases. Its trifloro- version is a commonly used mobile phase in peptide HPLC. 
One process used to produce this process must suppress both the water-gas shift reaction and the 
production of propionic acid; that process uses an Iridium-III catalyst to carbonylate methanol. The 
anhydrous version of this compound is referred to as “glacial”, and methods to produce it include the 
Cativa and Monsanto process. This substance is created by bacteria when ethanol is oxidized twice in a 
fermentation-type process. For 10 points, name this substance with formula CH3COOH, an organic acid 
that is the primary component of vinegar. 
ANSWER:  
acetic acid 
 [or  
acetate 
] 
048-11-30-10112 
12. In one of this author’s stories, the narrator takes in a primitive man and names him “Argos,” only to 
learn that he is the Greek poet Homer. In another of his stories, a playwright is given an extra year to 
complete his magnum opus while he stands in front of the firing squad. This author of “The Immortal” and 
“The Secret Miracle” wrote a story which begins when Adolfo Bioy Casares brings over a volume of the  
Anglo-American Cyclopedia 
. Another of his stories takes place on the anniversary of the death of Beatriz 
Viterbo, when the narrator visits the house of Carlos Argentino Daneri and finds the title microcosm under 
the stairs. For 10 points, name this Argentine author of “Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius” and “The Aleph.” 
ANSWER: Jorge Luis  
Borges 
080-11-30-10113 
13. Heidi Weber used the colorful tiles of this man's design to build his namesake art museum in Zurich. 
This architect collaborated with Nadir Afonso on \"The Radiant City,\" an apartment complex that served as 
a model throughout Europe. He designed the Philips Pavilion for Expo '58 while creating the design for the 
\"Palace of Assembly\" and other buildings in the Indian city of Chandigarh. This architect worked with 
Oscar Niemeyer on designing the headquarters of the United Nations. He used pilotis to support a house 
outside Paris that is an example of his International style, which he explicated in his book  
Towards a New 
Architecture 
. For 10 points, name this French architect who designed the Villa Savoye. 
ANSWER: Le  
Corbusier 
 [or Charles-Edouard  
Jeanneret 
] 
088-11-30-10114 
14. In 2005, a referendum in this country voted for the end of its “Movement” system and a return to 
multiparty politics. The next year, Kizza Besigye lost his bid for the presidency, alleging corruption against 
this country’s twenty-five-year leader. Former rebel groups in this country included the People’s 
Democratic Army and the Holy Spirit Movement, which was subsumed into a group led by Joseph Kony. 
The film and organization  
Invisible Children 
 works to raise awareness of the activities of this country’s 
Lord’s Resistance Army. It has been led by Yoweri Museveni since 1986. For 10 points, name this country 
which has suffered internal strife since the overthrow of Idi Amin. 
ANSWER:  
Uganda 
015-11-30-10115 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. A mixture of bark and wasp enzymes must be used to treat the “gevil” that is used to construct these 
objects. These items are created using the STAM characters, which include the crows-foot marks known as 
\"crowns\" on some letters. When using one of these objects, it is never directly touched; instead, one’s place 
is kept with a metal pointer called a “yad.” It is kept in the “aron kodesh” which, in American contexts, is 
mounted on the eastern wall of the building. Forty-two lines of the text appear in each column of, for 10 
points, what scrolls containing the Hebrew characters of the five books of Moses? 
ANSWER:  
Torah 
 scrolls [or sefer  
Torah 
] 
019-11-30-10116 
16. This civilization produced terra cotta funerary sculptures such as the Sarcophagus of the Spouses. The 
prophet Tages legendarily delivered the language of this civilization to the brothers Tyrrhenus and Tachron. 
Likely descended from the Villanovans, and consisting of a federation of twelve cities called the 
Dodecapoli, they were dealt decisive defeats at the Battle of Cumae and the Siege of Veii. Their rulers 
included Lars Posena and Tarquin the Proud, who became the final King of Rome. For 10 points, name this 
early Italian civilization supplanted by the Romans in 550 BCE. 
ANSWER:  
Etruscan 
 civilization [or  
Etrsuci 
; or  
Tusci 
; or  
Rasenna 
; or  
Rasa 
; accept  
Tyrrhenioi 
 or  
Tyrsenoi 
 before Tyrrhenus is mentioned] 
079-11-30-10117 
17. For a set of points, the Gram scan finds the minimal set of this type containing them. When g(x) is one 
of these functions, g of the integral from 0 to 1 of f(x) is less than or equal to the integral of g of f according 
to Jensen's inequality. A function is this on I, if for all x,y in I and all a between zero and one, f of quantity 
ax plus y times 1 minus a is less than a times f of x plus f of y times one minus a. A function posses this 
property on an interval only if the chord between any points along the function in that interval is at or 
above the function. Another test for this if its second derivative is positive. For 10 points, name this 
property that is the opposite of concave. 
ANSWER:  
convex 
 [prompt on  
concave up 
 before concave] 
001-11-30-10118 
18. This state saw a city’s mayor, Bracken Lee, fire police chief and future political theorist Cleon Skousen 
after the mayor was found at an illegal card game. The Senate held three years of hearings on whether to 
seat this state’s Reed Smoot. A crime committed by a resident of this state led to the case of  
Reynolds v. 
U.S. 
 One event in this state's history involved the founding of Camp Floyd by Albert Sidney Johnston, who 
was seeking to rein in a group responsible for the Mountain Meadows Massacre. It first applied for 
statehood as Deseret, and was frequently blocked due to its legal approval of polygamy. For 10 points, 
name this state, the final destination of Brigham Young’s Mormons. 
ANSWER:  
Utah 
019-11-30-10119 
19. One poem by this author recalls the time period \"between the end of the Chatterly ban and the Beatles' 
first LP.\" He asked \"What trap is this? Where were its teeth concealed?\" in the poem \"Myxomatosis.\" This 
author wrote that \"Postmen like doctors go from house to house\" and noted \"I work all day, and get half 
drunk at night\" in one poem. He declared that \"life was never better than in nineteen sixty-three\" in \"Annus 
Mirabalis.\" In another poem, he described visiting a monument where an \"earl and countess lie in stone\" 
with \"little dogs under their feet.\" Another of his poems begins \"They fuck you up, your mum and dad.\" 
For 10 points, name this British poet of \"Aubade,\" \"An Arundel Tomb,\" and \"This Be the Verse.\" 
ANSWER: Philip  
Larkin 
032-11-30-10120 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20.  
The Guardian 
 newspaper was founded by a witness to this event, which saw William Hulton dispatch a 
Yeomanry regiment under the drunken Captain Hugh Birley. Unlawful Drilling and Blasphemous Libel 
were outlawed by Lord Sidmouth in response to this August 16 event, which also inspired the Cato Street 
Conspiracy. The Six Acts were passed in the aftermath of this 1819 attempt to arrest the radical orator 
Henry Hunt, which saw cavalry kill fifteen of the 70,000 Mancunians who were gathered to protest 
Parliamentary representation in the midst of a famine. For 10 points, name this massacre whose name is a 
combination of St. Peter’s Field, where it occurred, and Napoleon’s final defeat. 
ANSWER:  
Peterloo 
 Massacre [or Battle of  
Peterloo 
] 
079-11-30-10121 
21. In one novel by this author Johann Fischer commits suicide after being caught in a scandal trying to 
steal money from the Algiers government. That novel's title character decides to scheme against her own 
family members Adeline Hulot and Baron Hulot because her feelings for the Polish sculptor Count 
Steinbock are unrequited. This author wrote another novel about a woman who is forced by her miserly 
father to marry Monsieur Cruchot despite her feelings for her cousin Charles Grandet. He also wrote a book 
in which Eugene Rastignac watches the title character sacrificing himself for his ungrateful daughters. For 
10 points, name this author who collected  
Cousin Bette Eugenie Grandet 
,  , and  
Pere Goriot 
 in his series  
The 
Human Comedy 
. 
ANSWER: Honoré de  
Balzac 
015-11-30-10122 
22. One useful model of these substances posited that they contain two components, one of which carries 
all the entropy; that model was posited by Tisza. One hallmark of these substances is the fact that a 
pressure gradient has no effect on their motion, and it is also impossible to maintain a thermal gradient 
across one of these substances. Substances with this property can produce Rollin films, and when 
temperature is applied on one side of a porus plug, these substances will product jets. Landau won the 
Nobel Prize for his work on these substances, which only exist below the lambda point. Common 
substances of this type include very cold helium-3 and helium-4, and they creep out of the sides of their 
containers. For 10 points, name these substances with zero viscosity. 
ANSWER:  
superfluid 
ity 
024-11-30-10123 
23. Among the primary sources describing this event are the journal of Walter Briggs and William 
Borough’s map depicting the  
Golden Lion 
 receiving the brunt of enemy fire. It was followed by a failed 
landing at Lagos and the capture of the castle of Sagres. A Genoese ship inexplicably opened fire during 
this action. Pedro de Acuña prevented any landings during this action, while a man who later commanded a 
large military folly, the Duke of Medina Sidonia, arrived to chase the attackers away. This action delayed 
the launch of the Spanish Armada and was described as \"singeing the King of Spain's beard.\" For 10 points, 
name this action that during which an English privateer burned over twenty ships in the harbor of a Spanish 
port city. 
ANSWER: Sir Francis  
Drake raid 
's   on  
Cadiz 
 [or early  
singe 
ing the  
King of Spain's beard 
; or equivalents 
mentioning both  
Drake 
 and  
Cadiz 
] 
003-11-30-10124 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 10 
Bonuses 
1. The main characters of this work are crushed to death by a truck whose tire they were changing. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this novel, in which Tomas, a surgeon, and his wife Tereza leave Prague and move to the 
country. 
ANSWER:  
The  Unbearable Lightness of Being 
 [or  
Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí 
] 
[10]  
The Unbearable Lightness of Being 
 is a novel by this Czech author, who also wrote  
The Book of 
Laughter and Forgetting 
ANSWER: Milan  
Kundera 
[10] In Kundera's novel  
 The Joke 
, Ludvik Jahn is ostracized after sarcastically writing that this 
phenomenon is the \"opium of the people\" on a postcard. 
ANSWER:  
optimism 
088-11-30-10201 
2. Answer some questions about genetic disorders. For 10 points each: 
[10] This genetic disorder is caused by a mutation in the HEX A gene leading to a buildup of a particular 
class of glycosphingolipid in nerve cells. It usually leads to death before the age of four. 
ANSWER:  
Tay-Sachs 
 disease 
[10] Tay-Sachs disease is unique among this class of diseases because it doesn't cause an enlarged liver. 
These inborn errors of metabolism, which include Sandhoff's disease and Niemann-Pick disease, are 
characterized by enzyme deficiencies in a certain organelle. 
ANSWER:  
Lysosomal storage 
 disorders [Prompt on  
lysosome 
 or similar such things] 
[10] These are the glycosphingolipids that build up in Tay-Sachs. Their carbohydrate component contains 
charged sialic acids. 
ANSWER:  
ganglioside 
s 
001-11-30-10202 
3. Name the following about Louis II, the fourth Prince of Conde, for 10 points each. 
[10] Louis's arrests and releases by Cardinal Mazarin were central to this civil strife in France that occurred 
during the mid 1600s, which takes its name from the word for \"sling.\" 
ANSWER: the  
Fronde 
s 
[10] After his final release from prison, Louis lost this disastrous battle for the French, effectively ending 
the Franco-Spanish War and leading to the Peace of the Pyrenees. 
ANSWER: Battle of the  
Dunes 
[10] Mazarin hoped to tarnish Louis's reputation by sending him to fight the \"Reaper's War\" in this 
province, where an uprising against the Spanish had begun on the \"Bloody Corpus Christi\" day. Six million 
speakers of this region's namesake Romance language were repressed in an autonomy drive under Franco. 
ANSWER:  
Catalonia 
 [or  
Catalunya 
] 
026-11-30-10203 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. This character has affairs with Fay Doyle and Mary, the wife of his editor Shrike. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this advice columnist who has a religious experience in the last chapter of an eponymous novel 
before being shot by Mr. Doyle. 
ANSWER: Miss  
Lonelyhearts 
[10]  
Miss Lonelyhearts 
 was written by this American novelist who created a bumbling character named 
Homer Simpson in a novel about Hollywood entitled  
Day of the Locust 
. 
ANSWER: Nathanael  
West 
[10] West's novel  
A Cool Million 
 is subtitled \"The Dismantling of\" this character, a perennially optimistic 
naif who loses an eye and a leg, among other body parts. 
ANSWER:  
Lemuel 
 Pitkin [or Lemuel  
Pitkin 
] 
079-11-30-10204 
5. This civilization's legendary founder was Manco Capac. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Peruvian civilization whose creator god Viracocha created man by blowing into stones. 
ANSWER:  
Inca 
ns 
[10] This sun god and son of Viracocha ordered his children to build Cuzco where a golden wedge would 
penetrate the ground. 
ANSWER:  
Inti 
[10] This fertility goddess and wife of Inti causes earthquakes and presides over nature. 
ANSWER:  
Pachamama 
105-11-30-10205 
6. This definition of knowledge was challenged in a short 1963 paper by Edmund Gettier. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this three-part definition of knowledge. 
ANSWER:  
justified true belief 
 [accept anything mentioning justification, truth, and belief] 
[10] According to this philosophical school, the outcome of a belief is more important than its truth or 
justification. Prominent members of this school include C. S. Peirce and William James. 
ANSWER:  
Pragmatism 
[10] This philosopher developed a “tracking theory” of knowledge with four conditions in his book  
Philosophical Explanations 
. He also wrote  
Socratic Puzzles 
. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Nozick 
024-11-30-10206 
7. Name the following about volcanoes in the Americas for 10 points each: 
[10] Fifty seven people died in the 1980 eruption of this Washington state volcano. 
ANSWER: Mount  
St. Helens 
[10] This lake, which contains Wizard Island, was formed by a massive eruption on Mount Mazama. 
ANSWER:  
Crater 
 Lake 
[10] In 1902, Saint-Pierre, the largest city and capital of Martinique, lost thirty-thousand people to the 
eruption of this volcano. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Pelee 
015-11-30-10207 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This religion's marriage ceremony sees the bride and groom sip from three wide cups of varying sizes 
three times each. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this religion that also celebrates Seven-Five-Three day, in which children of those ages dress up 
and are blessed. 
ANSWER:  
Shinto 
ism [or  
kami-no-michi 
] 
[10] Shinto, along with Buddhism, dominates the religious practices of this island nation. 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nippon 
] 
[10] This Shinto Grand Shrine in Mei Province is dedicated to Ameterasu. It is torn down and rebuilt every 
twenty years. 
ANSWER:  
Ise 
 Grand Shrine [or Ise  
Jingu 
] 
026-11-30-10208 
9. According to A. Marwick, the diagonal lines of this painting help illustrate the concept of infinity, much 
like the artist's other painting  
 Monk by the Sea  
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting often used as a symbol of the Romantic movement, which shows the title figure on 
a precipitous cliff looking down on whiteness. 
ANSWER:  
Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog 
 [or  
Der  Wanderer Uber dem Nebelmeer 
; accept alternate 
answers generously] 
[10] This German Romantic painted  
 Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog 
. He also painted a desolate scene in 
his  
 Abbey in the Oak Forest  
. 
ANSWER: Caspar David  
Friedrich 
[10] This work of Friedrich is modeled after the Elbe in winter and depicts the wreckage of one of William 
Parry's expeditions to the North Pole. 
ANSWER:  
The  Sea of Ice 
 [or  
The  Wreck of Hope 
; or  
Das  Eismeer 
; or  
Die  gescheiterte Hoffnung 
] 
033-11-30-10209 
10. This property can be represented using a Jones vector. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this property in which a wave is oriented entirely in one direction. 
ANSWER:  
polarization 
 [accept equivalents like  
polar 
ized light] 
[10] A polarized wave can often exist as this type of wave in which the direction of propagation is 
perpendicular to the angle of energy transfer. 
ANSWER:  
transverse 
 wave 
[10] At this angle, light with a certain polarization cannot be reflected when it changes medium. For visible 
light going from air to water, it is about 53 degrees. 
ANSWER:  
Brewster’s 
 angle 
064-11-30-10210 
11. A protest against this activity was immortalized in a photo showing Joseph Rakes about to stab lawyer 
Ted Landsmark with a flagpole bearing the American Flag. For 10 points each: 
[10]  
The Soiling of Old Glory 
 by Stanley Forman captures opposition to what practice of transporting 
students across district lines to counter de facto residential segregation? 
ANSWER:  
busing 
[10] Michael MacDonald wrote a memoir about his participation in the 1974 anti-busing riots in the South 
neighborhood of this city. 
ANSWER:  
Boston 
[10] In another part of the country, this group of students, including Ernest Green and Thelma Mothershed, 
was integrated into Central High School despite the opposition of Governor Orval Faubus. 
ANSWER:  
Little Rock Nine 
020-11-30-10211 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This force unsuccessfully tried to aid General Bazaine at the Siege of Metz before being defeated at the 
Battle of Beaumont. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this faction of the French army led by Marshall Patrice Mac-Mahon and named for an important 
battle fought on what is now French soil. 
ANSWER: The Army of  
Chalons 
[10] Von Moltke the Elder dealt the army of Army of Chalons their final defeat at this decisive 1870 battle 
of the Franco-Prussian War. It led to the capture of Napoleon III. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Sedan 
[10] This “Iron Chancellor” of Germany’s King Wilhelm I sparked the war by editing the Ems Dispatch. 
ANSWER: Otto von  
Bismarck 
079-11-30-10212 
13. This work was later used as part of the final movement of its composer's third and final symphony. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this composition which begins with pounding timpani beats and then repeats a ten-note trumpet 
theme beginning with the rising notes G-C-G. It was originally commissioned to commemorate those 
serving in the military. 
ANSWER:  
Fanfare for the Common Man 
[10]  
Fanfare for the Common Man 
 was first performed by a symphony in this state currently led by Paavo 
Jarvi. Another symphony located in this state rose to become one of the Big Five American orchestras 
under the leadership of George Szell from 1946 to 1970 and Lorin Maazel from 1972 to 1982. 
ANSWER:  
Ohio 
[10]  
Fanfare for the Common Man 
 was written by this American composer of the ballet  
Rodeo 
. 
ANSWER: Aaron  
Copland 
088-11-30-10213 
14. Name some Polish kings, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Grand Duke of Lithuania ruled Poland from 1399 to 1434, and gives his name to a dynasty which 
connected Poland and Lithuania. 
ANSWER: Wladyslaw II  
Jagiello 
 [accept  
Jogaila 
] 
[10] This King of Poland also served as Grand Duke of Lithuania, and was nicknamed “the Strong.” He 
renounced his claim to the throne in the Treaty of Altranstadt. 
ANSWER:  
Augustus II 
 [or  
Frederick Augustus I 
; accept  
Augustus the Strong 
] 
[10] The legendary first king of Poland had this name, which is also the first name of the twentieth-century 
politician who co-founded Solidarity and won the Nobel Peace Prize. 
ANSWER:  
Lech 
024-11-30-10214 
15. Name these African countries from literary clues, for 10 points each. 
[10] Shire Jama Ahmed developed the Latinization of this country's language, which was used by Nuruddin 
Farah to write the novels  
Links 
 and  
Maps 
. 
ANSWER:  
Somalia 
[10] This home of Ousmane Sembene and Mariama Ba was led for 20 years by Leopold Senghor, a leader 
of the Negritude movement. 
ANSWER:  
Senegal 
[10] This country has produced one Nobelist, Naguib Mahfouz, but the most notable text from this country 
may be  
The Book of the Dead 
. 
ANSWER:  
Egypt 
024-11-30-10215 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. Name these operas by Giuseppe Verdi for 10 points each: 
[10] The aria \"La donna e mobile\" plays hauntingly in the background as the title hunchback jester of this 
opera realizes he has accidentally ordered the death of his own daughter. 
ANSWER:  
Rigoletto 
[10] In this opera, the gypsy woman Azucena reveals that she threw her own son into the fire instead of 
Manrico, the wandering musician who falls in love with Leonora. 
ANSWER:  
Il  Trovatore 
 [or  
The  Troubador 
] 
[10] The events of this opera are set in motion when the South American born Don Alvaro accidentally 
shoots Leonora’s father, the Marquis of Calatrava. 
ANSWER:  
La  Forza del Destino 
 [or  
The  Force of Destiny 
] 
015-11-30-10216 
17. Of this family's eight children, Prue dies in childbirth, and James is the favorite of their mother. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this family, whose father is a metaphysical philosopher. 
ANSWER:  
Ramsay 
 family 
[10] The Ramsay family are friends with the painter Lily Briscoe in this novel. 
ANSWER:  
To the Lighthouse 
[10]  
To the Lighthouse 
 was written by this author, who also created  
Mrs. Dalloway 
. 
ANSWER: Virginia  
Woolf 
088-11-30-10217 
18. Molecular hydrogen can exist in an ortho or para state. For 10 points each: 
[10] In the case of molecular hydrogen, the terms ortho and para refer to this property. For a proton and 
electron, this property can be positive or negative one half. 
ANSWER:  
spin 
[10] The spin function of ortho hydrogen has this property, indicating that changing the order of the two 
protons in the wave function will yield the same wavefunction. 
ANSWER:  
symmetric 
[10] Ortho hydrogen, in which the spins of each proton are the same, exists in this state. Ground state 
oxygen exists in this state since its two unpaired electrons have parallel spins. 
ANSWER:  
triplet 
 state 
064-11-30-10218 
19. Ebbinghaus’s serial position effect notes that this functions best for items at the beginning and end of a 
list. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ability which comes in short and long term varieties. 
ANSWER:  
memory 
[10] This type of memory is deeply implanted into the brain by a traumatic or surprising incident. It is 
commonly exemplified by an American’s memory of the JFK assassination. 
ANSWER:  
flashbulb 
 memory 
[10] This psychologist became a widely sought after trial witness after the acceptance of her work on false 
memories and the misinformation effect. She is especially known for debunking claims of Satanic ritual 
abuse. 
ANSWER: Elizabeth  
Loftus 
015-11-30-10219 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. This landmass was surrounded by the Panthalassa ocean. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this supercontintent that broke up into Laurasia and Gondwanaland between 225-200 million 
years ago. 
ANSWER:  
Pangea 
[10] The study of this supercontinent lead to the SWEAT hypothesis. It preceded Pangea and existed during 
the Neoproterozoic era. 
ANSWER:  
Rodinia 
[10] This continent formed the core of Rondinia. Today it forms most of the North American Craton. 
ANSWER:  
Laurentia 
001-11-30-10220 
21. A group of these functions is known as a comb. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this function which is zero at all points except a single one and is named for an English 
physicist. 
ANSWER:  
Dirac delta 
 function [prompt on “delta function”] 
[10] A Dirac comb has the property that it is equal to itself when this transform is performed. This 
transform is used to go from a time domain to a frequency domain. 
ANSWER:  
Fourier 
 transform 
[10] The Dirac delta is defined as having this value for its integral from negative infinity to positive 
infinity. This value is also the number of sides in a Mobius strip. 
ANSWER:  
one 
064-11-30-10221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 10     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
