NASAT 2012 
Round 1 
Tossups 
1. Throughout this city, citizens could anonymously deposit complaints in stone plaques called Lions' 
Mouths. This city's non-aristocratic denizens could rise to positions of authority in the  
Scuole Grandi 
. The 
printer Aldus Manutius set up shop in this city, which was governed by the Council of Ten. It forbade its 
legendary glassmakers from ever going abroad. This city won the Battle of Chioggia against an 
encroaching navy. In a famous ritual, this city's leader would go out on the  
Bucentaur 
 and drop a ring in the 
water to \"wed the sea.\" For 10 points, name this Italian city, whose landmarks included the Doge's Palace 
and the Grand Canal. 
ANSWER:  
Venice 
 [or  
Venezia 
] 
080-12-59-01102 
2. Titov and Synolakis developed the MOST model for these entities. These entities are likely to be formed 
if there is a sharp upslope at low frequencies on an effective movement-frequency diagram. A distinctive 
V-shaped formation found on Madagascar indicates that a \"mega\" one of these entities could have been 
caused by an ancient meteor impact. That formation is the Fenambosy chevron. Run-up is one measure 
used to characterize these entities. Due to their long wavelength, they are always shallow-water waves. 
Drawback, a dramatic drop in sea level, can occur when the trough of these entities reaches the coast first. 
For 10 points, identify these large waves that can be caused by earthquakes. 
ANSWER:  
tsunami 
s [or  
seismic sea wave 
s; or  
tidal wave 
s] 
066-12-59-01103 
3. According to Saxo Grammaticus, this god was killed by the magic sword of a rival suitor who had stolen 
the food that was his source of power. In a riddle contest, this deity’s father asked his rival what he had 
once whispered in this figure’s ear. This figure is the father of another deity who ruled at Glitnir. This 
father of Forseti met his fate when the giantess Thokk refused a request from Hermod. Based out of the 
beautiful hall Breidablik, this god was burned on his ship Hringhorni. This figure was married to Nanna 
and was ultimately slain by the blind Hoder. His mother, Frigg, made all but one object in the world vow to 
never harm him. For 10 points, name this Norse god who was killed by mistletoe. 
ANSWER:  
Balder 
052-12-59-01104 
4. One character in this opera praises the attractiveness of his own feet, eyes, and nose in the aria “Non 
siate ritrosi” (nohn SYAH-te ri-TROH-si). In the aria “Come scoglio” (KOH-me SKOH-lyo) one character 
compares her resolve to a rock. Three of the characters sing “Soave sia il vento” (so-AH-ve SYA il 
VEN-to) as two others go off to war. In one scene in this opera, some poisoned Albanians are cured with a 
magnet by Despina. This opera also contains the aria “Un’aura amorosa” and sees one character accept a 
heart-shaped locket from a suitor. Don Alfonso wins a hundred-sequin bet in this opera, thanks to the 
actions of Fiordiligi and Dorabella. For 10 points, name this Mozart opera in which Ferrando and 
Guglielmo test their fiancées’ faithfulness. 
ANSWER:  
Cosi fan Tutte ; ossia, La Scuola Degli Amanti 
 [or  
Thus Do They All ; or, The School for 
Lovers 
; generously accept any translations of the title, such as  
All Women Are Thus 
 or  
They’re All Like 
That 
] 
079-12-59-01105 
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  1 of 11 
5. In one poem written in this form, the speaker recalls, “Twice victorious I crossed the Acheron” and 
claims that his “starry lute bears the black Sun of Melancholy.” That poem in this form begins, “I am the 
Dark One, the Widower, the Unconsoled.” Another poem in this form describes stone glistening “like a 
wild beast’s fur” and concludes, “here there is no place that does not see you. You must change your life.” 
In addition to Rilke’s “Archaic Torso of Apollo,” a series of poems in this form collected in  
Il Canzoniere 
describe a woman named Laura. For 10 points, name this type of fourteen-line poem pioneered by Petrarch. 
ANSWER:  
sonnet 
014-12-59-01106 
6. One of this artist's works depicts a gust of wind that blows away a stream of papers and hats, while 
another shows a craftsman sitting in a wheel-like object in the process of constructing a barrel. He once 
won a commission by dipping a chicken's feet in red paint and chasing it across a canvas. In one work, he 
painted a sunrise hitting a mountain in such a way that it turns red. More notoriously, this artist painted two 
octopi enveloping a diver in  
The Dream of the Fisherman's Wife 
. He incorporated various random sketches 
into a book called his namesake \"manga.\" For 10 points, name this Japanese print maker who included  
The 
Great Wave Off Kanagawa 
 in his  
36 Views of Mount Fuji. 
ANSWER: Katsushika  
Hokusai 
 [do not accept \"Katsushika\"] 
088-12-59-01107 
7. A zinc selenide crystal causes total internal reflection in the attenuated total reflectance type of this 
technique. The two dimensional form of this technique is used to dynamically follow hydrogen bond 
formation. Unlike a similar technique, this technique requires a compound to have a change in its dipole 
moment rather than a permanent dipole. This technique can detect certain motions like rocking, wagging, 
and scissoring. Samples are prepared for this process using Nujol oil or a potassium bromide pellet. 
Carbonyl compounds have a peak of about 1700 wavenumbers, and several useful vibrations occur in the 
“fingerprint” region of its spectrum. For 10 points, name this type of spectroscopy that causes vibrations 
using wavelengths longer than visible light. 
ANSWER:  
infrared spec 
troscopy [or  
IR spec 
troscopy] 
079-12-59-01108 
8. This thinker used the concept of “axis of castration” to analyze characters’ gender roles. In another 
work, this man described the “construction of a highly moral image: that of the perfect bastard.” In one of 
his works, he analyzes a cover of a magazine showing a black soldier saluting, while another text is a close 
examination of the Balzac short story “Sarrasine.” This author of  
S/Z 
 wrote about social value systems as 
exemplified through the images of red wine and professional wrestling. For 10 points, name this French 
author of semiotics texts like  
Mythologies 
 and “Death of the Author.\" 
ANSWER: Roland  
Barthes 
052-12-59-01109 
9. While at Oxford, this man joined the Swiss National hockey team in 1922 and was known as \"Herr 
Zigzag.\" During his ministry, historian George Stanley designed an important national object. This man's 
party took office with a successful slogan promising \"60 Days of Decision,\" as well as a call to accept 
nuclear-armed Bomarc missiles. This man said his country's people \"do not need to be liberated\" after 
Charles de Gaulle gave a speech about freedom at Expo 67. During his ministry, the Medical Care Act set 
up universal health care, and, despite protests from his predecessor John Diefenbaker, he introduced the 
Maple Leaf Flag. For 10 points, name this Canadian Prime Minister who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his 
role in resolving the Suez Crisis. 
ANSWER: Lester Bowles  
Pearson 
 [or Mike  
Pearson 
] 
052-12-59-01110 
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  2 of 11 
10. This author wrote a story that climaxes with Sheldon offering Chinese egg rolls to his outraged superior 
officer. This author of “Defender of the Faith” wrote a novel whose protagonist is the son of a glove 
manufacturer and the husband of Dawn, a former Miss New Jersey. In one of his novels, the teenager 
Merry plants a bomb and becomes a fugitive, devastating her father, Seymour “The Swede” Levov. This 
man created the recurring character Nathan Zuckerman, and he also wrote about a “mother-addicted” 
bachelor delivering a massive monologue to his psychoanalyst. For 10 points, name this author of  
American Pastoral 
 and  
Portnoy’s Complaint. 
ANSWER: Philip Milton  
Roth 
052-12-59-01111 
11. During the overthrow of this man's government, one man ran a wheel loader into the RTS building. 
This leader agreed to the creation of the Inter-Entity Boundary line and the creation of the Office of the 
High Representative when he signed one agreement. In one election, this man was defeated by Vojislav 
Kostunica, shortly after which this man was overthrown in the \"Bulldozer Revolution.\" This man's country 
was the target of Operation Noble Anvil, which led this man to withdraw his forces from Kosovo. This 
signer of the Dayton Accords became the first head of state to be tried for war crimes. For 10 points, name 
this first President of Serbia. 
ANSWER: Slobodan  
Milosevic 
149-12-59-01112 
12. Due to collisions with the surface of one of these materials, an important reduction in mobility occurs in 
inversion layers. If a minimum does not occur at the origin of an E-k plot for these materials, phonons must 
participate in radiative transitions, making them indirect. These materials are degenerate when a difference 
of less than 3kT exists between the conduction band and the Fermi level. They can be compensated if there 
are an equal number of donors and acceptors. These materials are classified as extrinsic when doped. For 
10 points, identify these materials with intermediate conductivity that include silicon and germanium. 
ANSWER:  
semiconductor 
s 
066-12-59-01113 
13. Phelps and Ledoux observed that a response to this action in a rat with a destroyed amygdala is 
preserved, but the response to a bright light is not. For Group 2 dogs, pulling on a lever did not stop this 
action in Seligman's learned helplessness experiment. Cerletti and Bini devised a procedure using this 
action that is used in the severest form of depression. For wrong answers in a word-pair test, a tape recorder 
played a response to this action in a 1963 Yale experiment intended to determine whether it was possible 
that Eichmann was just following orders. For 10 points, name this action that the teacher was told was 
being performed on someone in an adjacent room in the Milgram experiment. 
ANSWER: administering an electric  
shock 
020-12-59-01114 
14. This man founded a city on Crete that was struck with a plague because he founded it in the homeland 
of the wrong ancestor. In another episode, he went through the ivory gate of false dreams rather than the 
horn gate of true dreams. This man slew both Lausus and the tyrant Mezentius in battle after obtaining 
support from Evander. This companion of Achates lost his first wife, Creusa; his later attempt to marry 
Lavinia sparked a conflict with the Rutulians. After using a golden bough to gain access to the underworld, 
this man encountered his former lover, the Carthaginian queen Dido. For 10 points, name this legendary 
founder of Rome and subject of an epic by Vergil. 
ANSWER:  
Aeneas 
121-12-59-01115 
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  3 of 11 
15. One city in this state was once a gambling mecca under the control of Mayor Leo McLaughlin’s 
machine. Its museum of military history honors the birthplace of General Douglas MacArthur. A former 
tribe in this state, the Quapaw, names both a section of its capital city and a building at “Bathhouse Row.” 
It is home to the only publicly accessible diamond-bearing site in the world, Crater of Diamonds State Park. 
Tyson Foods is based in this state, whose biggest private employer is located in Bentonville and operates 
Sam’s Club. For 10 points, name this state, the location of Wal-Mart’s home offices, and also the site of 
cities such as Hot Springs and Little Rock. 
ANSWER:  
Arkansas 
052-12-59-01116 
16. Kyle Gann's analysis of this piece notes its similarities to an 1898 funeral march by Alphonse Allais. It 
was premiered by David Tudor during a Woodstock music festival, and it was inspired by a trip to Harvard 
where its composer entered an anechoic chamber. Its composer's 1962 follow-up to it included the 
instruction “in a situation provided with maximum amplification, perform a disciplined action.” Its original 
performer marked the beginning of this piece by closing the lid of the piano. For 10 points, name this piece 
whose three movements consist of the indication \"Tacet,\" a John Cage composition that consists only of 
ambient sound for the title amount of time. 
ANSWER:  
4’33’’ 
 [or “ 
Four minutes 
 and  
thirty-three seconds 
”] 
052-12-59-01117 
17. One of this man's novels contains the quote, \"The past is never dead. It's not even past.\" He ended one 
story with a doe being illegally killed by Carothers at a hunting party intended to unite the two branches of 
his family. Lucas Beauchamp stops searching for his ancestor's family fortune in this author's story \"The 
Fire in the Hearth.\" Lion and Boon Hogganbeck work together to bring down the title figure in another 
story by this author. Several alderman decide to sprinkle lime on the property belonging to Homer Barron's 
lover in another story by this author, whose \"Delta Autumn\" is a sequel to his story about the hunt for Old 
Ben, which includes Ike McCaslin. For 10 points, name this author who wrote \"The Bear\" and \"A Rose for 
Emily\" along with novels like  
The Sound and the Fury. 
ANSWER: William Cuthbert  
Faulkner 
020-12-59-01118 
18. This ruler's downfall was chronicled by Garcilaso de la Vega. One of his generals legendarily hid a 
treasure in the Llangatis Mountains. This ruler conquered the Cañari city of Tumebamba. He allegedly 
threw a Bible in the face of Friar Vicente de Valverde. His generals included Quizquiz and Rumiñahui, 
who lost the Battle of Mount Chimborazo. After this man was captured, Rumiñahui agreed to ransom him 
for a room full of gold and silver. For years, this son of Huayna Capac was embroiled in a civil war with 
his half-brother Huascar. He was defeated at the Battle of Cajamarca. For 10 points, name this Incan 
emperor who was executed by Francisco Pizarro. 
ANSWER:  
Atahualpa 
079-12-59-01119 
19. This poem asks, \"Shall that alone which knows be as a sword consumed before the sheath by sightless 
lightning?\" This poem's speaker recognizes the \"Lost Angel of a ruined Paradise.\" Four stanzas in this 
poem are spoken by Urania, who questions a Stranger with a brow \"which was like Cain’s or Christ’s.” 
The speaker of this poem instructs, “Go thou to Rome, at once the Paradise, the grave, the city, and the 
wilderness,\" and earlier declares, “Peace, peace! He is not dead, he doth not sleep, he hath awakened from 
the dream of life.” This poem concludes with the speaker watching the soul of the title character burning 
like a star \"through the inmost veil of Heaven.\" For 10 points, name this pastoral elegy written for John 
Keats by Percy Bysshe Shelley. 
ANSWER: \" 
Adonais 
: An Elegy on the Death of John Keats\" 
052-12-59-01120 
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  4 of 11 
20. One organism of this genus contains the CTX phi prophage in its genome. One species in this genus 
exhibits the Kanagawa phenomenon on blood agar; that species also expresses the thermostable direct 
hemolysin and is known as the parahemolyticus species. The LuxI/R quorum sensor was discovered in 
another organism of this genus, with species name fischeri. The vulnificus species can cause a fatal 
blistering infection when exposed to a wound, and a more well-known species in this genus produces a 
toxin which activates G-proteins by ribosylation. That species has O1 and O139 pathogenic strains that 
cause watery diarrhea. For 10 points, name this genus of comma-shaped bacteria, which includes the 
causative agent of cholera. 
ANSWER:  
Vibrio 
048-12-59-01121 
21. This man is the subject of a historical poem by the Chandos Herald. This man and his younger brother 
won the Battle of Najera in support of Peter the Cruel in the Castilian Civil War. A revolt against this man 
resulted in him sacking Limoges. One legend states that this man gained his crest and motto after the death 
of John of Bohemia in one battle. Jean de Clermont died at a battle won by Jean III de Grailly and this man. 
He captured the French king John II at that battle, after which he served as the first and only Prince of 
Aquitaine. Earlier, this man helped his father win the Battle of Crecy. For 10 points, name this son of 
Edward III who won the Battle of Poitiers and was possibly nicknamed for the color of his armor. 
ANSWER:  
Edward the Black Prince 
 [or  
Edward of Woodstock 
; prompt on  
Edward 
] 
014-12-59-01122 
22. The speaker of this poem notes that he has visited Ludlow and “left my necktie God knows where,” and 
questions, “Why was Burton built on Trent?” The last stanza of this poem discusses a man who, though 
others put “arsenic in his meat” and “strychnine in his cup,” outlived all his attempted poisoners. The third 
stanza of this poem notes that “Luck’s a chance, but trouble’s sure,” and that one should “train for ill and 
not for good.” The speaker of this poem exhorts the addressee to “pipe a tune to dance to,” claiming, “Malt 
does more than Milton can to justify God’s ways to man.” The title figure of this poem is told, “you eat 
your victuals fast enough.” For 10 points, name this poem by A. E. Housman. 
ANSWER: “ 
Terence, This is Stupid Stuff 
” 
003-12-59-01123 
23. This man’s namesake function is equal to zero when the number of distinct primes dividing a number n 
is less than the total number of prime factors of n. This man’s transformation in the complex plane is equal 
to az plus b over cz plus d, where a, b, c, and d are all complex numbers. That earlier transformation is a 
bijective conformal map of the Riemann sphere onto itself. In cylindrical polar coordinates, this man’s 
namesake surface is represented by log of r times sine of one-half theta equals z times cosine of one-half 
theta. When one object named for this man is cut and twisted it creates paradromic rings. He names an 
object can be created by half-twisting a piece of paper and connecting its edges together. For 10 points, 
name this mathematician whose namesake strip only has one side. 
ANSWER: August  
Mobius 
149-12-59-01124 
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2012 
Round 1 
Bonuses 
1. This man became angry that Alexander Gorsky tried to take over his work in 1902. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this celebrated ballet master at the St. Petersburg Imperial Theatre from 1871 to 1903. He 
choreographed such classic ballets as  
Don Quixote 
 and Tchaikovsky’s  
The Sleeping Beauty 
. 
ANSWER: Victor Marius Alphonse  
Petipa 
[10] Along with Lev Ivanov, Petipa choreographed this Tchaikovsky ballet about Clara, the title toy, and 
the villainous Mouse King. It contains the “Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy.” 
ANSWER:  
The  Nutcracker 
 [or  
Shchelkunchik 
] 
[10] Petipa revived this ballet, which featured music by Adolphe Adam. Set in the Middle Ages, its plot 
involves the title peasant girl who loves the disguised Duke Albrecht but dies after learning his true 
identity. 
ANSWER:  
Giselle , ou les Wilis 
052-12-59-01201  
2. China claims that Gyancain Norbu, not Gedhun Choekyi Nyima, currently fills this role. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this religious leader who sits at Tashilhunpo Monastery and is revered as the second-highest 
figure among followers of the Yellow Hat sect. 
ANSWER:  
Panchen Lama 
 [prompt on  
lama 
] 
[10] The Panchen Lama and the Dalai Lama are revered by this region’s namesake branch of Buddhism. 
Its namesake  
Book of the Dead 
 describes an intermediate state called  
bardo 
. 
ANSWER:  
Tibet 
[10] Tibetan Buddhism is an approach to this form of Buddhism, whose name means \"diamond vehicle.\" 
Physical rituals, as well as symbols such as the bell,  
dojre 
, and  
yab-yum 
 are central to it. 
ANSWER:  
Vajrayana 
 Buddhism [or  
Tantric 
 Buddhism] 
079-12-59-01202  
3. This poem was based on an unfinished work of Chretien de Troyes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this medieval romance by Wolfram von Eschenbach about the son of Gamuret’s quest for the 
Holy Grail. 
ANSWER:  
Parzival 
[10] Another work of Middle High German literature is this epic in which Hagen treacherously shoots 
Siegfried in the back after Kriemhild reveals his weakness. 
ANSWER: the  
Nibelungenlied 
 [or the  
Song of the Nibelungs 
] 
[10] Hans Jakob Christoffel von Grimmelshausen, the first major German novelist, wrote a picaresque 
novel about this character, whose farm is raided during the Thirty Years War by soldiers he initially 
mistakes for foxes. 
ANSWER: Simplicius  
Simplicissimus 
 [or  
Simplicius 
 Simplicissimus] 
014-12-59-01203  
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  6 of 11 
4. Answer the following about a certain constellation, for 10 points each: 
[10] This constellation contains the Pleiades star cluster, and a complex spanning it an Auriga is a 
star-forming region. 
ANSWER:  
Taurus 
[10] This pulsar wind nebula with Messier number 1 located within Taurus is the remnant of a supernova 
observed by astronomers in 1054 AD. 
ANSWER:  
Crab 
 Nebula 
[10] This star, sometimes referred to as alpha-Tauri, is the brightest star in Taurus and has an Arabic name 
meaning \"follower.\" 
ANSWER:  
Aldebaran 
126-12-59-01204  
5. In 1991 this city was replaced as its country’s capital by Abuja. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this most populous city in Nigeria. Many gangs composed of “area boys” demand bribes from 
molue drivers in this city, in which Ikoyi is located. 
ANSWER:  
Lagos 
[10] These commercial motorcycles can be found throughout Lagos. These vehicles for hire are named for 
a now defunct Nigerian airline. 
ANSWER:  
okada 
 [or  
achaba 
; or  
going 
; or  
inaga 
] 
[10] This suburb of Lagos, located in between Lagos Island and the Lekki Penninsula, is the site of Bar 
Beach. It shares its name with the southern portion of Vancouver Island. 
ANSWER:  
Victoria 
 Island 
149-12-59-01205  
6. This ruler annexed Yaroslavl and Rostov, and he took Novgorod in 1478 after a series of campaigns. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this Russian ruler who married Zoe Paleologus and successfully ended the tributary status of his 
people. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan III 
 [or  
Ivan the Great 
; or  
Ivan Veliky 
; prompt on  
Ivan 
 Vasilyevich] 
[10] Ivan III was the Grand Prince of this city, which houses the Kremlin. 
ANSWER:  
Moscow 
 [or  
Moskva 
] 
[10] Ivan started out as a tributary to this empire, which was ruled at the time by Ahmed Khan and founded 
by Batu Khan. 
ANSWER:  
Golden Horde 
 [or  
Kipchuk 
 Khanate; or Ulus  
Juchi 
] 
014-12-59-01206  
7. Name these painters of battle scenes for 10 points each: 
[10] This artist designed his mural  
The Battle of Anghiari 
 to rival a Michelangelo piece. He is better known 
for  
The Vitruvian Man 
 and  
Mona Lisa 
. 
ANSWER:  
Leonardo da Vinci 
   [accept either] 
[10] This German painted a giant banner in the sky of his depiction of the Battle of Issus. 
ANSWER: Albrecht  
Altdorfer 
[10] This artist of a fresco commemorating Sir John Hawkwood painted a set of three works depicting 
Niccolo da Tolentino leading Florentine forces to victory. 
ANSWER: Paolo  
Uccello 
015-12-59-01207  
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  7 of 11 
8. In molecular orbital theory, the   orbitals either bond weakly or not at all in complexes assuming this 
d 
molecular geometry, examples of which include complexes of palladium (II), iridium (I), and platinum (II). 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this four-ligand molecular geometry exhibited by the platinum atom in Zeise’s salt which 
results from removing two of the ligands from an octahedral complex. 
ANSWER:  
square planar 
[10] Molecular geometries are predicted by this theory that treats the lone pairs of electrons on the central 
atom of a molecule’s Lewis structure in a manner similar to ligands. It predicts other shapes like linear and 
trigonal bipyramidal. 
ANSWER:  
VSEPR 
 (often pronounced \"VESPER\") theory [or  
Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion 
theory] 
[10] Applying orbital hybridization to VSEPR theory, the central atom in a square planar configuration has 
this hybridization which also characterizes an octahedral geometry. 
ANSWER:  
sp d 
3 2 
014-12-59-01208  
9. The first meeting of this institution took place in a church choir in 1621. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this first assembly of elected representatives of English colonists in North America. Established 
by the Virginia Company, it eventually became the Virginia House of Delegates. 
ANSWER:  
House of Burgesses 
[10] The House of Burgesses originally met at Jamestown, but, in 1699, it was moved to this Virginia city. 
This city's \"Colonial\" area is a tourist destination that simulates life in early America. 
ANSWER:  
Williamsburg 
[10] This man was the last royal governor of the Colony of Virginia. He dissolved the House of Burgesses 
in 1773 and, in 1775, made a proclamation offering freedom to slaves who joined the British cause. 
ANSWER: Lord  
Dunmore 
 [or John  
Murray 
; or Fourth Earl of  
Dunmore 
] 
052-12-59-01209  
10. This analogy leads to a distinction between  
eikasia pistis dianoia 
,  ,  , and the highest level of knowledge,  
noesis 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this analogy, wnich geometrically explains the four different levels of knowledge, particularly 
focusing on the distinction between mathematical reasoning and immediate apprehension. 
ANSWER: the analogy of the  
divided line 
[10] The analogy of the divided line is immediately followed by this better-known passage of the Republic. 
It describes a group of chained prisoners who only perceive the shadows cast on the wall by a fire behind 
them. 
ANSWER: the  
Allegory of the Cave 
[10] Another section of the  
Republic 
 describes this object, which makes its possessor evil by granting 
invisibility. 
ANSWER: the  
Ring of Gyges 
080-12-59-01210  
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  8 of 11 
11. The Cobb-Douglas function takes as inputs this entity and capital. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this entity. According to Karl Marx, profit is the surplus value taken from this entity. 
ANSWER:  
labor 
[10] Labor and capital are both examples of these inputs of production. Land is another example of these, 
which sometimes also include more intangible inputs such as entrepreneurship or human capital. 
ANSWER:  
factor 
s of production 
[10] Cobb-Douglas is a power function where the exponents of labor and capital will add to one given this 
assumption. This assumption states that magnifying the amount of labor and capital will magnify total 
output by the same amount. 
ANSWER:  
constant returns to scale 
121-12-59-01211  
12. This building was secularized by Kemal Ataturk almost five hundred years after Mehmed II converted 
it into a mosque. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this building completed in 537 under Justinian I in Constantinople. Its giant dome is supported 
by four predentives and two semidomes. 
ANSWER:  
Hagia Sophia 
 [or  
Asasofya 
; or  
Sancta Sophia 
] 
[10] The Hagia Sophia was designed by Anthemius of Tralles and this other Byzantine architect. 
ANSWER:  
Isidore of Miletus 
 [or  
Isidorus of Miletus 
] 
[10] Another important piece of architecture in Istanbul is the Blue Mosque, which was designed by this 
man, a student of Sinan. 
ANSWER: Sedefkar  
Mehmed Agha 
014-12-59-01212  
13. Name these female Hindu deities, for 10 points each. 
[10] Sita and Rukmini are aspects of this owl-riding goddess, who came to her husband Vishnu after 
emerging from the churning of the milk ocean. 
ANSWER:  
Lakshmi 
[10] This goddess of knowledge rides a  
hamsa 
, which is a goose or swan that is said to be able to separate 
the milk out of a mixture of water and milk. 
ANSWER:  
Saraswati 
[10] This goddess rode a tiger into her battle with the demon Mahishasura, who could take the form of a 
water buffalo. 
ANSWER:  
Durga 
079-12-59-01213  
14. The protagonist of this play eventually declares that \"the strongest man in the world is the man who 
stands alone.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which Doctor Thomas Stockmann becomes a pariah after discovering that his town's 
baths are contaminated. 
ANSWER:  
An  Enemy of the People 
 [or  
En  Folkefiende 
] 
[10] This playwright of  
An Enemy of the People 
 also wrote about Nora Helmer walking out on her husband 
Torvald in  
A Doll House. 
ANSWER: Henrik  
Ibsen 
[10] The title character of this Ibsen play is a preacher who follows a rigid policy of \"naught or all\" towards 
devotion to God, losing his wife and son in the process. 
ANSWER:  
Brand 
105-12-59-01214  
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  9 of 11 
15. This effect governs the behavior of thermocouples. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this phenomenon, part of the thermoelectric effect, in which a temperature gradient produces a 
voltage. 
ANSWER:  
Seebeck 
 effect 
[10] The heating that occurs when a current runs through a resistive element is named for this person. He 
also names the SI unit of energy. 
ANSWER: James Prescott  
Joule 
[10] The Seebeck effect occurs due to the collision of these particles and electrons in a phenomenon known 
as their namesake “drag.” According to BCS Theory, their interaction with electrons causes electrons to be 
attracted to each other in superconductors. 
ANSWER:  
phonon 
s 
079-12-59-01215  
16. The documentary  
Beyond Citizen Kane 
 showcased the influence of Globo TV over this country's 
politics. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country in which Globo TV's biased edit of a debate helped lead to Fernando Collor's 
victory in the 1989 presidential election, the first under its 1988 Constitution. 
ANSWER: Federative Republic of  
Brazil 
 [or Republica Federativa do  
Brasil 
] 
[10] This man finished second in the first-round election but lost to Collor in the runoff. He lost in the 1994 
and 1998 presidential elections before finally winning, on his fourth attempt, in 2002. 
ANSWER: Luiz Inacio  
Lula 
 da Silva 
[10] Lula was a founding member of this party, which still holds the Brazilian presidency under Dilma 
Rousseff. 
ANSWER:  
Workers' 
 Party [or Partido do  
Trabalhadores 
; or  
PT 
] 
003-12-59-01216  
17. This character tries to prove his story by showing his friend strange flowers he saved from his 
adventure. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who disappears at the end of the novel he appears in, even though he claims he 
will return in half an hour. He previously saved the life of Weena, a member of a childlike race called the 
Eloi. 
ANSWER:  
Time Traveler 
 [or the  
protagonist of  The Time Machine 
; or obvious equivalents] 
[10] The Time Traveler was created by this author of  
The Time Machine 
 and such other science fiction 
novels as  
The War of the Worlds. 
ANSWER: Herbert George  
Wells 
[10] In this Wells short story, a mountaineer named Nunez enters the title land in Ecuador, and falls in love 
with Medina-Sarote, the daughter of Yacob. The houses in the title location are all windowless. 
ANSWER: “The  
Country of the Blind 
” 
052-12-59-01217  
18. These organisms were first bred by Charles Woodworth. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these organisms, a species of Diptera. They are a frequently used model organism within 
biology and have been used to study principles of heredity, among others. 
ANSWER:  
Drosophila  melanogaster  
 [or  
fruit fly 
; or  
vinegar fly 
] 
[10] This scientist used  
drosophila 
 in his Fly Room at Columbia. He showed that genes are carried on 
chromosomes and copped the 1933 Nobel Prize for his findings. 
ANSWER: Thomas Hunt  
Morgan 
[10] The fly analog of albinism is a mutation causing the body of the fly to appear this color. 
ANSWER:  
yellow 
052-12-59-01218  
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  10 of 11 
19. This organization was founded by Hughes de Payens, who became its first Grand Master. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this order of knights which was started to protect pilgrims going to the Holy Land. 
ANSWER: Knights  
Templar 
 [or Poor Knights of Christ and the  
Temple 
 of Solomon] 
[10] This final Grand Master of the Knights Templar was slowly burned alive by Philip IV of France. 
ANSWER: Jacques de  
Molay 
[10] This pope gave the order to dissolve the Knights Templar. He also moved the Church from Rome to 
Avignon. 
ANSWER:  
Clement V 
 [or Bertrand  
De Got 
; prompt on  
Clement 
] 
015-12-59-01219  
20. Key leaders in this town include coal-dealer Vergil Gunch and poet “Chum” Frink. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this town, which is located in the state of Winnemac. One notable resident is the realtor George, 
who begins a novel as a proud member of the Booster’s club but briefly adopts a bohemian lifestyle and 
admires the radical politics of Seneca Doane. 
ANSWER:  
Zenith 
[10] The town of Zenith appears in the novel  
Babbitt, 
 a satirical work by this American author of  
Main 
Street. 
ANSWER: Harry Sinclair  
Lewis 
[10] Babbitt’s disillusionment with middle-class society comes shortly after his friend, Paul Riesling, is put 
in prison for doing this, stunning the community. 
ANSWER:  
shooting his wife 
 [or  
shooting Zilla 
 Riesling; prompt on  
attacking his wife 
 or obvious 
equivalents; do not accept \"murdering his wife\"] 
052-12-59-01220  
21. In this battle, an unauthorized charge initiated by Pappenheim instantly routed the Saxons under Elector 
John George I. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this pivotal 1631 battle in which more mobile Swedish troops outflanked and crushed the 
traditionally arranged imperials under Tilly. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Breitenfeld 
[10] The Battle of Breitenfeld was a victory for this Swedish king during the Thirty Years War. 
ANSWER:  
Gustavus Adolphus 
 [or  
Gustav II Adolf 
; prompt on  
Gustavus 
; prompt on  
Gustav 
] 
[10] This 1634 battle crushed the momentum of Protestant forces under Swedish leadership. In this battle, 
Habsburg forces under Ferdinand III and the Cardinal-Infante Ferdinand defeated the League of Heilbronn 
and captured Gustav Horn. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Nordlingen 
014-12-59-01221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 1     Page  11 of 11 
