One member of this movement wrote the Pulitzer Prize-winning poetry collection Turtle Island and is Gary (+) Snyder. Promoted by Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Naked Lunch and The (*) Dharma Bums are novels produced by members of this movement. Fictionalizations of this movement’s writers include Carlo Marx and Sal Paradise, both of whom appear in On the Road. For 10 points, name this counterculture movement led by Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac. ANSWER: Beat movement [or Beat Generation; or Beat niks] 
The song for this man's funeral was Dead March and Monody by Benjamin Carr. Joseph Hopkinson wrote the lyrics and Philip Phile the music for a song originally intended for this man's entrance, (+) “Hail, Columbia.” In another song, this man has “the gentle folk around him, They say he's grown so tarnal proud, he will not ride without them.” This man's opponents supposedly played a song whose lyrics are about a ban on Christmas celebrations, (*) “The World Turned Upside Down,” at one of his victories. He is celebrated in "Yankee Doodle." For 10 points, name this first American president. ANSWER: George Washington 
A character in this novel is appalled when an invitation to his home is taken seriously. Ronny Heaslop decides not to marry a character in this novel who refuses to testify at a trial. The "Mosque," (+) "Cave," and "Temple" sections of this book are devoted to the three segments of the Indian climate. This novel criticizes both (*) British and Muslim presence in India as alien and suggests that only Hindus understand the country. For 10 points, name this anti-colonialist novel in which Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of rape, written by E. M. Forster. ANSWER: A Passage to India 
This man authored a bill to keep federal courts from hearing cases about abortion called the “We the People Act.” This politician stated that a certain entity is corrupt, unconstitutional, and is to blame for rapid inflation of currency in his book (+) End the Fed . He also supported federal decriminalization of drugs in his 1988 campaign. (*) For 10 points, name this libertarian Texas congressman and current candidate for the Republican nomination for President. ANSWER: Ron ald Ernest Paul [prompt on Paul ] 
Along with Joshua Giddings, this man successfully fought to get the House of Representative's "gag rule" repealed. This man negotiated a treaty that set a western border along the (+) forty-second parallel, gave up claims to Texas, and took control of Florida with Luis de Onís. This man won a four-way election that included a candidate who suffered a stroke but finished third named (*) William H. Crawford. After that election, the second place finisher claimed that a "corrupt bargain" had occurred when Henry Clay became Secretary of State. For 10 points, name this President who won the election of 1824 and was the son of the winner in 1796. ANSWER: John uincy Q Adams [prompt on Adams ; do not accept John Adams ] 
This man created the Bureau of Indian Affairs while serving as the Secretary of War. During the War of 1812, this man's work for the War Hawks led to his being nicknamed "young Hercules." This man's wife Floride led a group of women in the (+) Petticoat Affair, which saw the social snubbing of widow Peggy Eaton. This man gave a speech in 1837 in which he supported slavery as a "positive good." This man's differences with one president led to his being the first Vice President to (*) resign, after which he went to the Senate. For 10 points, name this Vice President under John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson from South Carolina. ANSWER: John Caldwell Calhoun 
One ruler of this name signed a nine year truce with the Magyars in order to build an army and later crush them at the Battle of Riade. This name was held by the father of (+) Otto the Great, nicknamed “The Fowler.” This name was also held by a Holy Roman Emperor who appointed Clement III Antipope against Gregory VII, who had earlier forced him to stand in the (*) snow outside of Canossa. A British king of this name signed the Treaty of Troyes with France. For 10 points, give the name of the king who led England's high-water mark in the Hundred Years War. ANSWER: Henry [or Heinrich ] 
This art form developed from "cakewalk" music and itself gave birth to "stride." The chief practitioner of this idiom used it in the opera (+) Treemonisha. It uses a syncopated melody played against a 2/4 or 4/4 beat, and is the form seen in such pieces as "The (*) Entertainer." For 10 points, identify this predecessor of jazz, which was used in a piece about the Maple Leaf social club by Scott Joplin. ANSWER: rag time 
This action was performed by Alice Herz and Norman Morrison by setting themselves on fire. Christopher Eckhardt's right to do this by wearing a (+) black armband was upheld in Tinker v. Des Moines . Jane (*) Fonda raised the profile of this activity, during which Jeff Miller and Sandy Scheuer were among those killed at Kent State University. For 10 points, name this action that involved speaking out against a certain conflict in Southeast Asia. ANSWER: protest ing the Vietnam War [or obvious equivalents] 
This man married Marie-Amelie, the daughter of Ferdinand I of the Two Sicilies. Along with his commander Dumouriez (dew-mawr-ee-ay), this leader deserted to the Austrians and plotted to overthrow the republic. This leader went into exile in the (+) United States with his brothers the duc de Montpensier (dook-duh-mown-pen-see-ay) and the comte de Beaujolais (cohmpt-duh-boh-joh-lay). Adolph Thiers (tee-air) declared this ruler to be the (*) 'citizen king' after Charles X was deposed, ending the Bourbon dynasty. For 10 points, name this duc d'Orleans (dook-dohr-lay-awn) who reigned as king of France until the Revolution of 1848. ANSWER: Louis-Philippe I 
During this man's reign, the Catholic Church was given control over schooling by the (gee-ZO) Guizot law. Giuseppe Fieschi intended to kill this ruler with an (+) "infernal machine" that fired musket balls from twenty-five barrels. This ruler was portrayed as a (*) pear and as Gargantua by caricaturist Honore Daumier. This ruler twice had as his prime minister Adolphe (TEERS) Thiers. Coming to power in 1830, this successor to Charles X came from the House of Orleans. For 10 points, name this French king who ruled during the July Monarchy. ANSWER: Louis Philippe I 
This event may have taken place during Aurelian's suppression of the Zenobia revolt. Patriarch Theophilius may have ordered this event during the 391 CE suppression of paganism. Ammianus and Orosius blamed this event on an attempt by to destroy ships during the war with (+) Pompey. This event is also attributed to Amr ibn al As, who, in 642, allegedly said that (*) books in agreement with the Quran were superfluous and books opposed to the Quran should be destroyed. Christians, Muslims, and Julius Caesar have all been accused of, for 10 points, what act that destroyed the center of Classical knowledge? ANSWER: burning the Library of Alexandria [or destroying the Library of Alexandria ; prompt on partial answer] 
Dom Joseph Pothier reconstituted a type of this music, and the lack of a middle cadence is a characteristic of the (+) Ambrosian type of this musical form. The Paleographie Musicale saw the first publication of the (*) Old Roman version of this genre of music. For 10 points, the Agnus Dei and Alleluia are examples of which form of monophonic liturgical music, the most famous type of which is named for Pope Gregory I? ANSWER: plain chant [or plainsong ] 
One of this author's late novels was titled after the last words of Stonewall Jackson. This recipient of the War Merit Cross wrote most of his novels after he was injured handing out chocolate to Italian soldiers. He described Spanish (+) bullfights in Death in the Afternoon and used World War I as the setting for his novel about the relationship between Catherine (*) Barkley and an ambulance driver, Frederic Henry, who fall in love while Henry is recuperating from a war injury. For 10 points, name this American author of The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms. ANSWER: Ernest Hemingway 
One novel by this man discusses the feeling of litost in the story of a student’s romance with Kristyna. Another novel by this man includes (+) Sabina, who is obsessed with the symbolism of a bowler hat, and the professor Franz, who dies on the Cambodian border. That novel features the story of (*) Tomas and Tereza. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being. ANSWER: Milan Kundera 
This author recounts an exchange between men who burn corpses and others who eat their dead, concluding, like Pindar, that "Custom is king of all." This man wrote that Cambyses (cam-BYE-sees) died after falling from a horse. He shared a (+) fanciful story of a boy rescued by dolphins at the start of his nine-book magnum opus. This resident of Halicarnassus described how Lydia fell to (*) Cyrus the Great years before Athenian boats at Salamis defeated the Persian invasion of Greece. For 10 points, name this Greek whose pioneering chronicles earned him the title "Father of History." ANSWER: Herodotus of Halicarnassus 
After this event, several states passed laws requiring identification in order to buy ammonium nitrate. The ringleader of this (+) attack reportedly chose his target because an alternative had a florist's shop on the first floor. Terry Nichols collaborated on this attack, which commemorated incidents at (*) Ruby Ridge and Waco. For 10 points, name this attack on the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in a state capital, masterminded by Timothy McVeigh. ANSWER: Oklahoma City bombing [or obvious equivalents] 
As governor, this man oversaw the execution of Ricky Ray Rector, whose frontal lobe of his brain had been destroyed. He was criticized for his overly long opening night speech at the 1988 Democratic Convention. On his last day of office, he pardoned trader (+) Marc Rich; earlier, as President, he signed the Defense of Marriage Act. This president was investigated for his role in the (*) Whitewater real estate scandal. For 10 points, name this president who was impeached after lying about his relationship with Monica Lewinsky. ANSWER: William Jefferson Clinton [or William Jefferson Blythe III] 
A document central to this policy noted that, “the greatest danger that can befall us is that we shall allow ourselves to become like those with whom we are coping.” An anonymous article in (+) Foreign Affairs magazine and the “Long Telegram” supported this strategy and were written by its formulator, George (*) Kennan. This policy was put into action with the Truman Doctrine. For 10 points, name this foreign policy strategy of the United States in the 1940s and early 50s that sought to stifle the expansion of the Soviet Union’s influence. ANSWER: Containment [prompt on Truman Doctrine until it is read] 
Along with John Lambert, this man routed a force of "Engagers" at the Battle of Preston. He outlawed owning horses worth more than five pounds after a campaign in which he ordered massacres at (+) Wexford and Drogheda. Succeeded in one post by his son Richard, this man was disinterred and given a posthumous execution in 1661. As ruler, this man outlawed (*) dancing and other fun. Marston Moor and Naseby were decisive victories for this commander's New Model Army. For 10 points, name this man who served as "Lord Protector" of England after Charles I's execution. ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell 
During the reign of Diocletian, items such as the "follis" and "argenteus" were used for this purpose. Julius Caesar standardized the weight of the "aureus," a (+) golden item of this type, and other long-used ones included the "sesterces" and the (*) "denarius." For 10 points, the heads of emperors were often depicted on what objects in Roman culture, with which one could purchase slaves or fermented fish sauce? ANSWER: Roman coins [or Roman money ; or Roman currency ; etc] 
After an assassin attacked him, this ruler stopped trying to prevent a peace with the Baibars during the Ninth Crusade. As a result of his father’s failure to uphold the Provisions of Oxford, this man fought the Battles of Lewes and Evesham against Simon de Montfort in the Second (+) Barons’ War. He expelled the Jews from England with the Edict of Expulsion, and he named Robert Balliol the King of the Scots over Robert the (*) Bruce. He also defeated William Wallace at Falkirk. For 10 points, name this English king known for his long legs. ANSWER: Edward Longshanks [or Edward I ] 
John Stillwell Stark bought one of this man’s works for fifty dollars plus royalties; that work is possibly named after a club in Sedalia, Missouri. This man composed an opera in which the title character opposes conjurers and is about to be thrown into a wasps’ nest. He suffered a mental breakdown after the disastrous performance in Harlem of his (+) opera about a teenage freed slave called Treemonisha . This man composed a work called “The (*) Entertainer” and another called “Maple Leaf Rag.” For 10 points, name this American composer known as the “King of Ragtime.” ANSWER: Scott Joplin 
Bud Collyer voiced this character in critically acclaimed Max Fleischer cartoons. He was the subject of a long copyright battle by creators Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. This character was played by an actor who killed himself named George (+) Reeves, in a 1950s TV show. In a series of films, he was played by a man later crippled in a (*) horse accident named Christopher Reeve. This hero was sent to Earth as a baby from the doomed planet Krypton and is the love interest of reporter Lois Lane. For 10 points, name this superhero known as the "Man of Steel." ANSWER: Superman [or Clark Kent; or Clark Kent ; or Kal-El ] 
This junior minister to Pompidou founded the Rally for the Republic party and dissolved the (+) National Assembly early. This President spoke out against the Iraq War and sought to ban the wearing of (*) religious clothing in schools to promote secularism. He faces corruption charges for abusing government money. For 10 points, name this man who took over from Mitterand and was succeeded by Sarkozy as President of France. ANSWER: Jacques Rene Chirac 
Born in the year of the elephant, this leader negotiated the Treaty of Hudaybiyah and received assistance from a group called the Ansar , or "helpers." This commander had his men raid a caravan at the Battle of (+) Badr. In one story, he traveled through seven heavens and met Abraham and Jesus during the "Night Journey." He married (*) Aisha, who was six or seven years old at the time of marriage. This man was succeeded as leader by Abu Bakr, though some believe he should have been succeeded by his son-in-law Ali. For 10 points, name this holiest prophet of Islam. ANSWER: Muhammad 
Robert Smythson designed Hardwick Hall under this monarch. A three-quarter length painting shows this ruler holding a prayer book and is called the Clopton Portrait. In another depiction, this ruler stands on a map over Oxfordshire. This subject of the (+) Ditchley Portrait was also painted by George Gower with a hand resting on a globe as a terrible (*) storm occurs in the top-right background on a sea filled with sinking ships. For 10 points, name this English queen whose portraiture includes that Gower painting showing the defeat of the Spanish Armada. ANSWER: Elizabeth I of England [prompt on Elizabeth ] 
While in Miami, this city's mayor Anton Cermak was wounded by Giuseppe Zangara. During a speech by August Spies in this city, a (+) pipe bomb killed police officer Mathias Degan. Ellen Gates Starr co-founded a settlement (*) home for immigrants with Jane Addams in this city, which was known as Hull House, and its Union Stock Yards cruelly employed many meat-packers. For 10 points, name this city which burned in 1871, the largest along the shore of Lake Michigan. ANSWER: Chicago , Illinois 
This speech proposed that "a beachhead of cooperation may push back the jungle of suspicion." Several key phrases in this speech were supplied by Adlai Stevenson and John Kenneth Galbraith. Its speaker noted "the torch has been passed to a new (+) generation of Americans" and recommended, "Let us never negotiate out of fear, but let us never fear to negotiate." This speech includes the famous instruction to (*) "ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country." For 10 points, name this speech delivered by the new President in 1961. ANSWER: John F. Kennedy’s inaugural address 
A Westminster College installation featuring this object was planned by Edwina Sandys and features many instances of the word "unwahr", or "untrue". An installation featuring it in Seoul, South Korea can be found near a bear sculpture depicting a landmark found on the boulevard (+) Unter den Linden. The largest section of it outside of its native country is located at the Newseum in Washington, D.C., and includes eight four-meter tall sections as well as a guard tower from (*) Checkpoint Charlie. The aforementioned exhibits contain, for 10 points, fragments of what former boundary separating a European capital city that fell on November 9, 1989? ANSWER: pieces of the Berlin Wall [or der Berliner Mauer ; prompt on partial answers; prompt on things like "brick" or "cement"] 
Some historians claim that this event started as a way for the Putnam family to get revenge on their rivals, the Porters. During this event, Mary Sibly had a cake made out of rye and young girls' urine fed to a (+) dog. William Phips convoked a Court of Oyer and Terminer during it, whose victims included a slave named (*) Tituba and John Proctor. It began when Abigail Williams and Betty Parris went into fits and accused two women of being responsible. For 10 points, name this 1692 event, an outbreak of spurious accusations of black magic in colonial Massachusetts. ANSWER: the Salem Witch Trials 
One ruler of this name and number was the last ruling king of Jerusalem. The Holy Roman Emperor of this name and number was the last of the Ottonian dynasty and advocated church reform at a council of (+) Pavia. That ruler was the only German king to have been canonized. The French ruler of this name and number was killed in a joust by a lance to the eye. The English king of this name and number grew up in his father's land of (*) Anjou. That man's reign saw the murder of his Archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas Becket. For 10 points, give this regnal name and number given to the first king of the House of Plantagenet. ANSWER: Henry II [or Heinrich II ; or Henri II ; prompt on Henry ] 
This man was smeared by the Hennings Report, which was supported by this man's opponent William Benton. One of this man's claims was found to be a "fraud and hoax" by the (+) Tydings Committee. This man lost support when he was attacked by Joseph Welch during the Army Hearings, and six Senators supported Margaret Chase Smith's "Declaration of Conscience" speech given against this man and his actions. This man's (*) "Enemies from Within" speech in Wheeling, West Virginia, claimed he had a list of 205 names. For 10 points, name this man who claimed the State Department had been infiltrated, which sparked a namesake Communist witch hunt in the 1950s. ANSWER: Joseph Raymond McCarthy 
Varieties of this practice were struck down in Canada by Russow v. British Columbia and Zylberberg v. Sudbury . A town's reaction to an opponent of this practice was chronicled in the documentary A Community at (+) War. Potter Stewart was the only dissent in a landmark Supreme Court case banning this practice. Chandler v. James struck down a 1993 Alabama law allowing students to initiate this practice. Santa Fe v. Doe ruled against this practice at (*) football games. For 10 points, name this practice prohibited by Engel v. Vitale on the grounds that it constitutes a violation of the separation of church and state. ANSWER: school prayer 
This ruler married Ealhswith while he was fighting with Burgred and his brother Aethelred against one enemy. After winning the (+) Battle of Edington, he signed the Treaty of Wedmore with Guthrum, creating the (*) Danelaw. After Viking raids destroyed monasteries, this king translated works from Latin into Anglo-Saxon. For 10 points, name this English king from Wessex known as "the Great." ANSWER: Alfred the Great 
This man was indicted and put on trial for failure to register as a foreign agent after heading the anti-nuclear group Peace Information Center. He served as a leader of the Niagara movement before becoming editor of a magazine called The Crisis. The first (+) African-American to earn a doctorate at Harvard, he coined the term "double consciousness" in his book The Souls of Black Folk. He developed the idea of "The (*) Talented Tenth" as part of his attack on the ideas of Booker T. Washington. For 10 points, name this co-founder of the NAACP. ANSWER: W.E.B. Du Bois (doo BOYZ, but accept "doo bwah," etc.) 
This group was originally based in the Baxter Building. Their comic book introduced such characters as the Black Panther and the planet-eating (+) Galactus. Members of this group have such catchphrases as "It's clobbering time!" and "Flame on!" They first appeared in a 1961 comic that introduced Marvel Comics' Silver Age, and their members have such powers as (*) invisibility and being able to stretch. For 10 points, name this superhero team who fights Doctor Doom and whose members have included the Thing and the Human Torch. ANSWER: Fantastic Four 
A 1635 edict issued by this government instituted an isolationist policy, largely to prevent the spread of Catholicism on its southernmost (+) island. This government was forced to open itself to trade in 1854 by Matthew (*) Perry, fourteen years before it was ended. For 10 points, identify this shogunate that controlled Japan during the Edo period, named for its founder Ieyasu (ee-yah-soo). ANSWER: Tokugawa shogunate [or Tokugawa bakufu; or Edo shogunate or Edo bakufu before "Edo" is read] 
An Anglo-Hanoverian alliance during this war defeated the French at Krefeld before the Prussians were defeated at Kunersdorf. One theater in this war saw Robert (+) Clive defeat Siraj-ud-Daula to gain control of Bengal. Another battle in this war saw Frederick the Great defeat the Austrians after a maneuver mocked as "the changing of the guard of Potsdam." In addition to the battles of Plassey and Leuthen, this war, which was prompted by the (*) Diplomatic Revolution, saw the French and Indian War fought in another theater. For 10 points, name this war that began when Austria tried to regain territory lost in the War of the Austrian Succession. ANSWER: Seven Years' War 
This country's imperial ambitions led it to defeat the army of Xhemal (SHIM-all) Aranitasi and depose King Zog during its World War II-era annexation of (+) Albania. It avenged its defeat at the Battle of Adowa by succeeding in is second attempt to conquer (*) Ethiopia. For 10 points, name this country whose colonial ambitions were inflamed during its Fascist period under Benito Mussolini. ANSWER: Kingdom of Italy 
This man was one of the few West Point cadets to escape punishment for participating in the Eggnog Riot. He spitefully announced "You say you are hungry and have no money; here, this is all I have" and threw coins at protestors on Cary Street. He took White Cloud and Black Hawk to Saint Louis following the end of the (+) Black Hawk War. This Secretary of War under Franklin Pierce was ultimately captured in (*) Irwinville, Georgia, after the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia. For 10 points, name this Senator from Mississippi who served as the first and only president of the Confederacy. ANSWER: Jefferson Finis Davis 
This dynasty's slave trade helped result in the half-million man Zanj revolt. This dynasty's ruler Harun al-Rashid communicated with (+) Charlemagne. Later, this dynasty's rulers served as figureheads for the Seljuks. The Mongol Hulagu Khan replaced this dynasty with the Ilkhanate and sacked its capital, (*) Baghdad, in 1258. For 10 points, name this Islamic caliphate that succeeded the Umayyad Dynasty. ANSWER: Abbasid Caliphate [or Abbasid Dynasty; or Abbasid s] 
This state's first governor was rejected as a recess appointment as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. In addition to John Rutledge, another governor of this state was William Moultrie. A planned uprising of hundreds of slaves in the capital of this state ended with the hanging of its leader, (+) Denmark Vesey. Horatio Gates was replaced by Nathanael Greene after losing one battle in this state at (*) Camden. Under Greene, Daniel Morgan won the Battle of Cowpens in this state, prior to Greene's victory at Eutaw Springs. Charles Pinckney was, for 10 points, the governor of what state with a capital at Charleston? ANSWER: South Carolina 
Following this overthrow of this man, the horrible conditions at a children's home at Cighid (chi-GID) were revealed to the public. Ion Pacepa detailed the rule of this man in the book Red Horizons. This author of the (+) July Theses issued a 1966 decree banning abortion and contraception. He continued the isolationist policies of his predecessor, Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej (gee-OR-gee gor-GOO-dej). Both this man and his wife (*) Elena were executed following a brief trial on Christmas Day, 1989. For 10 points, name this longtime dictator of Romania. ANSWER: Nicolae Ceausescu (chow-CHESS-kyoo) 
This man's reign saw the passage of the Statutes of Westminster, which contributed to this ruler becoming known as the English Justinian. This ruler issued the Edict of (+) Expulsion, which expelled all Jews from England and was not formally reversed until the time of Cromwell. This man was held hostage after the Battle of Lewes by a group of barons rebelling against his father, (*) Henry III. This king destroyed Welsh autonomy, and gained the nickname "Hammer of the Scots" for such victories as at the Battle of Falkirk against William Wallace. For 10 points, name this English king with the nickname "Longshanks." ANSWER: Edward I of England [or Edward Longshanks ; prompt on Edward ] 
An island in this river is named for army surplus magnate Francis Bannerman. The widest portion of this river is known as the Tappan Zee. Early colonists referred to this body of water as the “North River” and the Delaware as the (+) “South River.” This river’s highest source is Lake Tear of the Clouds, which is on the southwest slope of Mount Marcy. The world’s busiest motor vehicle bridge, the (*) George Washington, spans this river. For 10 points, name this river, which rises in the Adirondack Mountains and forms the border between New York City and New Jersey. ANSWER: Hudson River [or Great Mohegan ; or North River until mentioned] 
In the first celebration of this holiday, a vicar erected a large wooden cross at Tinui Taipos. In one service during this holiday, people stand-to during dawn and engage in two minutes of silence before a (+) bugler plays the Last Post and ends the service with the Reveille (REH-vuh-lee), the bugler's wake-up call. That is the Dawn Service and it was first held at the (*) Sydney Cenotaph. This holiday commemorates the first major action of two British Commonwealth Countries in World War I, the landing at Gallipoli. For 10 points, identify this April 25 holiday celebrated in Australia and New Zealand. ANSWER: ANZAC day [or Australian and New Zealand Army Corps day] 
This dynasty halted expansion of the Tang dynasty by winning the Battle of Talas River. This dynasty's slave trade helped result in the half-million man Zanj revolt. The defeat of Marwan II at the Battle of Zab established this dynasty under its first ruler. This dynasty's ruler (+) Harun al-Rashid communicated with Charlemagne. Later, this dynasty's rulers served as figureheads for the Seljuks. The Mongol Hulagu Khan replaced this dynasty with the Ilkhanate and sacked its capital, (*) Baghdad, in 1258. For 10 points, name this Islamic caliphate that succeeded the Umayyad Dynasty. ANSWER: Abbasid Caliphate [or Abbasid Dynasty; or Abbasid s] 
Ihsanullah Ihsan stated that this country's railways minister Ghulam Ahmed Bilour "won" the Taliban's "hearts" after Bilour stated that he would give $100,000 to whoever would kill Basseley Nakoula. Following a blockade in the South (+) Waziristan region in this country, its city of Tank was the site of a demonstration pertaining to the U.S.’s use of (*) drone attacks in this country. For 10 points, identify this country in which Malala Yousafzai was attacked for promoting educational and women's rights, led by Asif Ali Zardari and bordered by Afghanistan and India. ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
This man married his wife Berengaria on Cyprus following his conquest of that island from Isaac (+) Comnenus. Following another campaign that saw his victory at the Battle of Arsuf and capture of (*) Acre, this man was captured by Leopold V of Austria. For 10 points, name this English king who fought Saladin in the Third Crusade. ANSWER: Richard I [or Richard the Lion-heart ed; or Richard Coeur de Lion ; prompt on Richard ] 
Future Polish dictator Josef Pilsudski collaborated with one side of this war in an attempt to sabotage the eventual losers' military efforts. An attack on unarmed fishing boats during this conflict nearly caused a war with Britain in the (+) Dogger Bank incident. The Baltic Fleet suffered a devastating defeat in this war while attempting to relieve the siege of Port Arthur. The Battle of (*) Tsushima in this war led to Theodore Roosevelt mediating the Treaty of Portsmouth. For 10 points, name this loss for a European country against an imperial Asian force at the turn of the twentieth century. ANSWER: Russo-Japanese War 
This work contains a story-within-a-story entitled The Impertinent Curiosity. One character in this work steals a barber’s basin he believes to be Mambrino’s helmet. That character is defeated by the (+) Knight of the White Moon and loves a woman from El Toboso. The title character is accompanied by an old nag named (*) Rocinante and his squire Sancho Panza, who informs him that windmills are not giants. For 10 points, name this Spanish novel about a knight from La Mancha, by Miguel de Cervantes. ANSWER: Don Quixote [or The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha ; or El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha ] 
A lawsuit after this event featured as its plaintiff a group led by Grant Baker. Punitive damages from this event caused JP Morgan to invent the (+) credit default swap, and the Seattle Seven made an agreement with the company responsible for it. Gregory Cousins was unable to prevent this event after being left in command by Joseph (*) Hazelwood, and it occurred near Bligh Reef. This event killed 2000 sea otters and several bald eagles. For 10 points, name this 1989 maritime disaster in Prince William Sound, where an oil tanker spilled its payload. ANSWER: Exxon Valdez oil spill 
The Stone of Destiny was brought to Dunadd after a massacre of these people at Scone by the king of Dalriada, Kenneth MacAlpine. Angus MacFergus ruled during the height of this kingdom, which was once ruled by the loser at Mons Graupius, Calgacus. Saint Columba tried to convert this kingdom to Christianity, creating their namesake crosses that contain similar patterns to the (+) tattoos that named these people. This kingdom was north of the Firth of Forth, and both the Antonine Wall and (*) Hadrian's Wall were built to keep it at bay. For 10 points, name this oldest of the Caledonian kingdoms that was wiped out by the Celts and the Vikings. ANSWER: Pict s [or Pict ish Kingdom; or Pict land; prompt on Scot s; prompt on Scot land] 
This man first gained recognition when he protested being dropped from a Board of Zoning Appeals. As governor, he overturned an anti-miscegenation law and asked for leaders to "publicly repudiate all black racists." People wore watches with his face to show support for this man, who called opponents (+) "hopeless, hysterical hypochondriacs of history" and "nattering nabobs of negativism." After being caught accepting (*) bribes, this Marylander resigned and was replaced by Gerald Ford. For 10 points, name this first vice-president of Richard Nixon. ANSWER: Spiro Theodore Agnew 
This company was originally founded to develop and distribute a BASIC interpreter for the Altair 8800. Its Silverlight technology competes with Adobe Flash, and has been criticized for perpetuating this company's practice of ignoring (+) open technological standards. In May 2011, it agreed to acquire Voice Over IP company Skype, its largest acquisition ever. This company was the defendant in (*) antitrust cases in the U. S. and E. U., centering on its software bundling practices. For 10 points, name this American software company which creates the best-selling operating system in the world, Windows. ANSWER: Microsoft Corporation 
Kryuki are the hooks used in the Russian variant of this musical form. Echoi are melodic formulas found in one type of this music, many examples of which are collected in the Liber Usualis . Dom Joseph Pothier reconstituted a type of this music, and the lack of a middle cadence is a characteristic of the (+) Ambrosian type of this musical form. The Paleographie Musicale saw the first publication of the (*) Old Roman version of this genre of music. For 10 points, the Agnus Dei and Alleluia are examples of which form of monophonic liturgical music, the most famous type of which is named for Pope Gregory I? ANSWER: plain chant [or plainsong ] 
Along with the Q document, this text is one of the sources in the two-source hypothesis. The man credited with being the author of this text founded the Church of Alexandria, though that man's body was stolen by (+) Venetians in 828. What is probably the original ending of this book, chapter 16, verse 8, does not describe the resurrected Jesus, and it is the only synoptic Gospel to not describe Jesus's (*) birth. This book is the oldest of the Gospels, though it appears second after Matthew. For 10 points, name this shortest Gospel. ANSWER: Gospel of Mark 
This ruler referred to his imprisonment as his time spent at “the University of Ham.” He initially rose to power with the support of the Party of Order. This ruler received Nice and Savoy in exchange for forming an alliance in which he won the Battle of (+) Solferino alongside the Sardinian forces of Victor Emmanuel II, expelling Austria from Italy. From 1850 to 1852, he served as president of the brief-lived (*) Second Republic. For 10 points, name this Emperor of France from 1852 to 1870 who was named for his uncle, another famous emperor. ANSWER: Napoleon III [or Louis-Napoleon ; prompt on Napoleon ] 
Before his reign began, this man became allies with the prefect Naevius Macro. The kingdom of Mauretania was annexed during his rule. Cassius Chaerea (kye-RAY-uh) led the group of Praetorian Guards that (+) assassinated this man. This son of Germanicus and Agrippina the Elder tried to make his horse (*) Incitatus a consul and allegedly had incestuous relationships with his sisters Agrippina the Younger and Julia Lavilla. For 10 points, name this Emperor who succeeded Tiberius and had a name meaning "little boots." ANSWER: Caligula 
This man negotiated the release of his compatriot Thomas Dermer. After living with John Slany, this man was sent to Cupids Cove. Thomas Hunt kidnapped this man, who later served as a translator for Stephen Hopkins and Edward Winslow. This man was introduced to a group of people who had already met (+) Samoset, and he returned to his village of Patuxet to find it wiped out by disease. He taught skills such as catching (*) eels and planting maize. For 10 points, name this man who served as an interpreter in negotiations with Massasoit of the Wampanoag in the seventeenth century for the Pilgrims. ANSWER: Squanto [or Tisquantum ] 
During this incident, a coerced confession involved the word "paean," whose homonymous double meaning eluded interrogators. John Chafee refused to honor a recommendation to court-martial those involved in this incident, who were led by Commander Lloyd Bucher and walked single file across the (+) Bridge of No Return after eleven months. People in this incident famously gave the finger to their torturers. This incident occurred only a week before the (*) Tet Offensive began. For 10 points, name this 1968 incident in which an American research ship was captured and detained by North Korea. ANSWER: USS Pueblo incident 
The 1999 Latakia incident in this country escalated a feud between brothers Rifaat and Hafez. On July 31st, the armed forces broke into the town of (+) Hama and killed many civilians. The districts of Baniyas and Talkalakh in this country also saw a large number of crackdowns on protesters against the incumbent president (*) Bashar al-Assad. For 10 points, name this Middle Eastern country whose refugees have poured into neighboring Turkey and Lebanon. ANSWER: Syria n Arab Republic [or Al-Jumhuriyyah al-Arabiyyah as- Suriyyah ] 
This leader used his mechanic skills in a prisoner of war camp before escaping to live with Khirgiz nomads. While in prison, this leader took classes from Mosa Pijado with other communists. This leader had the Catholic archbishop (+) Aloysius Stepinac thrown in jail for cooperating with Nazis. He executed Mihailovich, the leader of the Chetniks who took credit for the victories of this leader's guerrilla (*) Partisans. This leader helped start the Non-Aligned Movement as a Communist leader who defied the Soviets. For 10 points, name this leader of Yugoslavia during World War II. ANSWER: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz ] 
