2012 NHBB Set C 
Bee Round 7 
BEE ROUND 7 
1. This man replaced Peng Dehuai (pung deh-WHY) with Lin Biao after the Lushan Conference. A short 
lived period of free speech was ushered in by this man’s Hundred Flowers Campaign. This man led troops 
out of Jiangxi (jong-SHEE) along with Zhou Enlai as part of the Long March. He regained power with the 
aid of the Red Guards prior to implementing the Cultural Revolution. Statements made by this leader were 
collected in the “Little Red Book.” For the point, name this first Communist leader of China. 
ANSWER:  
Mao 
 Zedong [or  
Mao 
 Tse-Tung] 
149-12-64-17101 
2. When asked why he changed his mind on this issue in 1957, Sam Rayburn replied, \"Bob Bartlett.\" Ernest 
Gruening's speech \"Let Us Now End American Colonialism\" lobbied for this issue, as did Edna Ferber's  
Ice 
Palace 
, which claimed that the place in question was \"two times the size of that little bitty Texas they're 
always yawping about.\" For the point, name this issue that was resolved on January 3, 1959 when the 
forty-ninth state was admitted to the Union. 
ANSWER:  
Alaska 
n statehood [or admission of  
Alaska 
 to the United States; or obvious equivalents 
mentioning  
Alaska 
] 
003-12-64-17102 
3. William Walker set this song to the tune \"New Britain.\" A verse that does not appear in the original, but 
does appear in  
Uncle Tom's Cabin 
, begins, \"When we've been there ten thousand years.\" It was first 
published in the  
Olney Hymns 
, a collection mostly by former slave trader John Newton. For the point, name 
this folk standard that, of the title concept, notes, \"how sweet the sound.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Amazing Grace 
\" [or \" 
1 Chronicles 17:16:17 
, Faith's Review and Expectation\"] 
003-12-64-17103 
4. The \"Black Army\" served as the chief military force of this people under King Matthias Corvinus. This 
group's march into modern-day Germany ended at the Battle of Lechfeld, where they were beaten by Otto 
the Great. This southern-most of the Finno-Ugric peoples originated from the Ural Mountains. This group 
was Christianized by Stephen I, who became their king in 1000 AD. For the point, name this ethnic group, 
the precursor to modern-day Hungarians. 
ANSWER:  
Magyar 
s [accept  
Hungarian 
s until the last word of the tossup] 
020-12-64-17104 
5. At a Jefferson Birthday Dinner, this politician responded to the President by toasting \"The union: next to 
our liberty the most dear.\" This man demanded the censure of the invasion of Florida as James Monroe's 
Secretary of War. He denounced the Tariff of Abominations in an \"Exposition and Protest\" arguing that the 
states had the right to veto federal laws within their borders. For the point, name this 7th vice-president, a 
South Carolinian who opposed Jackson during the Nullification Crisis. 
ANSWER: John Caldwell  
Calhoun 
080-12-64-17105 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  1 of 14  © HSAPQ 
6. This document would have created a council of 25 nobles to enforce its provisions. Edward Coke revived 
interest in this document, amendments to which were the basis for the idea of \"due process.\" Pope Innocent 
III provoked a civil war by declaring this document meaningless. This document declares that \"No free 
man shall be arrested, or imprisoned...unless by legal judgment of his peers\" and was signed at 
Runnymede. For the point, name this 1215 document in which King John gave rights to his barons. 
ANSWER:  
Magna Carta 
 [or the  
Great Charter 
] 
080-12-64-17106 
7. One landmass that extends into this body of water was named by Julius von Payer and Karl Weyprecht, 
who led 1873's unofficial Austro-Hungarian Expedition. That is why a Russian-controlled archipelago in 
this body is called Franz Josef Land. One of its extensions names the oldest North American commercial 
corporation; that extension is Hudson Bay. Murmansk’s port on the White Sea is on this body of water that 
also includes the Beaufort, Norwegian, and Siberian Seas. For the point, name this ocean surrounding the 
North Pole. 
ANSWER:  
Arctic 
 Ocean 
153-12-64-17107 
8. This device is slated to be replaced by a Low Earth orbit device called OPSEK. SpaceX’s Dragon 
recently became the first commercial spacecraft to rendezvous at this location. This artificial satellite 
includes orbital regions named for the United States and Russia, and scientists here can repair spacecraft 
headed for the Moon. For the point, name this artificial satellite whose maintenance is the result of 
cooperation between Japan, the United States, Canada, Europe, and Russia. 
ANSWER:  nternational  pace  tation 
I S S 
117-12-64-17108 
9. This territory was the site of the Zabern affair when a shoemaker was hit with a soldier’s saber, and the 
sentiment of  
revanche 
 emerged over this territory. The Treaty of Frankfurt asked its citizens to migrate or 
assimilate after its transfer following the Battle of Sedan. For the point, name this two-part territory with a 
central city at Strasbourg, whose recapture was achieved by France in World War I after decades of 
German military control along those countries’ border. 
ANSWER:  
Alsace-Lorraine 
 [or  
Elsass-Lothringen 
; prompt  
Alsace 
; prompt  
Lorraine 
] 
104-12-64-17109 
10. In China, this religion's parishes, known as  
safu, 
 were administered by a department called the  
sabaofu. 
People are initiated into this belief system via the Navotje ceremony, after which practitioners begin to 
wear a girdle called a  
kushti. 
 This faith believes that birth separates one's  
urvan 
 from the  
fravashi, 
 and this 
religion denotes all of creation as either  
asha 
 or  
druj. 
 After dying, practitioners of this religion are placed 
on towers of silence, and it was founded by a man who wrote the Avesta. For the point, name this religion 
that worships Ahura Mazda and is named after a Persian prophet. 
ANSWER:  
Zoroastrianism 
 [or  
Mazda 
ism, or  
Zoroastrian 
ism] 
192-12-64-17110 
11. One leader of this country was shot at Cerro Cora, where he was buried by the bare hands of his Irish 
mistress Eliza Lynch. Under Francisco Solano Lopez, it lost at least half its males in battle with a 
surrounding Triple Alliance. A 1989 coup overthrew its dictator Alfredo Stroessner during sixty-one years 
of Colorado party rule. For the point, name this South American country which won the Chaco War against 
its fellow landlocked country Bolivia. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Paraguay 
 [or Republica de  
Paraguay 
; or Teta  
Paraguai 
] 
104-12-64-17111 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  2 of 14  © HSAPQ 
12. Cecil Underwood was the 25th and 32nd governor of this state, being elected to that office in 1957 and 
1997. This state lost a 1943 Supreme Court Case in which Jehovah’s Witnesses were forced to salute the 
American flag during the Pledge of Allegiance in this state’s schools. A Senator from this state wrote a 
four volume history of the Senate and stated, “Today I weep for my country,” upon the U.S. invasion of 
Iraq in 2003. For the point, name this state that was long represented in the U.S. Senate by Robert Byrd. 
ANSWER:  
West Virginia 
030-12-64-17112 
13. James Weldon Johnson used this adjective to label the race riot-filled summer of 1919. During another 
period described by this color, Emma Goldman was deported in the Palmer Raids. This adjective describes 
a \"scare\" resulting from the Russian Revolution, and it also describes an organization whose American 
chapter was founded by Adolphus Solomons and Clara Barton. For the point, name this color of both 
communist flags and the cross that symbolizes a humanitarian organization. 
ANSWER:  
red 
080-12-64-17113 
14. This man's mistress was accused of performing Black Masses to keep his love in the Affair of the 
Poisons. Voltaire wrote a history of “the Age of” this man, comparing him to the emperor Augustus. Many 
artisans were driven out of his country when he revoked the Edict of Nantes. Pushes for economic 
self-sufficiency were made by his finance minister Colbert (colb-AIR), and this man tried to guarantee a 
loyal and secure court by moving it from Paris to Versailles. For the point, name this “Sun King.” 
ANSWER: King  
Louis XIV 
 [prompt on  
Louis 
] 
121-12-64-17114 
15. Howard Florey and Ernest Chain shared the Nobel Prize for their discovery of a way to mass-produce 
this substance. An unethical study in Guatemala tested the efficacy of this substance on STDs. Tom 
Daschle was ordered to ingest this substance by the 2001 anthrax attack letters. This substance was found at 
St. Mary's Hospital, after a blue-green mold was found growing in a culture of  
Staphylococcus. 
 For the 
point, name this first in a class of antibiotics, discovered by Alexander Fleming. 
ANSWER:  
pen 
icillin [or  
PCN 
] 
020-12-64-17115 
16. This incident was prompted in part by the death of Hu Yaobang, and Li Peng overruled Zhao Ziyang’s 
advice regarding a response to it. The leadership of East Germany contemplated imitating the response to 
this event with a namesake option. It resulted in the destruction of a statue of the “Goddess of Democracy” 
and the death of hundreds of student protesters. For the point, name this revolt in the People’s Republic of 
China that took place in a historic section of Beijing memorialized by the image of a lone protester standing 
in front of a column of tanks. 
ANSWER:  
Tiananmen Square 
 Incident [or  
June 4 
 incident; or  
6/4 
; prompt on  
1989 
 revolt; prompt on 
“Beijing Revolt”; accept reasonable equivalents for “Incident,” including, but not limited to, “Rebellion,” 
“Demonstration,” “Massacre”] 
030-12-64-17116 
17. This man modified the binomial theorem to allow for all real exponents. This man heavily studied 
diffraction of light in his treatise on color,  
Opticks 
. This man is better known for devising a method which 
he termed \"the method of fluxions,\" but admitted that that work was done \"on the shoulders of giants.\" This 
man's  
Principia 
 discusses his work on the laws of gravitation, which he developed calculus to explain. For 
the point, name this English scientist who devised three laws of motion. 
ANSWER: Sir Isaac  
Newton 
020-12-64-17117 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  3 of 14  © HSAPQ 
18. While running for this position, Upton Sinclair proposed government seizure of idle factories as the 
EPIC candidate. After losing an election for it, one man told reporters they wouldn't have him “to kick 
around any more, because, gentlemen, this is my last press conference.” Pat Brown beat Richard Nixon in 
that election, and was in turn beaten for this position by a man Brown had tried to depict as an extremist, 
Ronald Reagan. For the point, name this executive position that is currently held by Pat's son Jerry Brown, 
who succeeded Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
ANSWER:  
governor of California 
121-12-64-17118 
19. One author used his experience as a \"zek\" in a scientific prison in this country to write  
The First Circle 
, 
but is better known for a work of nonfiction circulated clandestinely here. Another author was politically 
pressured to decline the Nobel Prize by this country's government for writing a novel about the love 
between the nurse Lara and a medical professional. The former author described forced labor in the title 
camps of his  
Gulag Archipelago. 
 For the point, name this country from which Boris Pasternak was exiled 
for writing  
Doctor Zhivago 
. 
ANSWER:  
Soviet Union 
 [or  
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
; or  
USSR 
; or  
Soyuz Sovetskikh 
Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik 
; prompt on  
Russia 
] 
020-12-64-17119 
20. One of these facilities in Florence featured an innovative staircase designed by Michelangelo and is 
known as the \"Laurentian\" one. The Bayt-ul Hikma was an important one of these established by 
al-Mamun for the Abbasid empire in Baghdad. Christians, Muslims, and Julius Caesar are among those 
accused of destroying another of these institutions, located in present-day Egypt. For the point, what sort of 
facility “at Alexandria” archived most Classical texts? 
ANSWER:  
libraries 
 [or a  
library 
] 
019-12-64-17120 
21. This people pioneered the extraction of natural rubber from trees, and this culture’s archaeological sites 
include Tres Zapotes and San Lorenzo. They arose about a thousand years before the Zapotecs, and their La 
Venta site in what’s now southern Mexico was home to several basalt sculptures which are between five 
and nine feet tall and had to be moved without wheels. For the point, name this early pre-Columbian 
civilization which made colossal, helmeted stone heads. 
ANSWER:  
Olmec 
 civilization 
104-12-64-17121 
22. These objects are protected by local women trained by Wangari Maathai in Kenya, and Operation 
Ranch Hand targeted these objects. One type of this object is the national symbol of Lebanon, and is found 
on its flag. The Jewish National Fund accepts donations to create these things in Israel, and US planes used 
Agent Orange to kill them in Vietnam. For the point, name these organisms destroyed by slash-and-burn 
agriculture. 
ANSWER:  
tree 
s [or  
forest 
s] 
104-12-64-17122 
23. A struggle over one of these entities saw Daniel Drew water down stock and was known as the Erie 
War. The rates on these entities were set by the ICC after the passage of the Hepburn Act. Chinese 
immigrants were employed by the companies that built two of these entities which met at Promontory 
Summit, Utah. Magnates of these entities included Jay Gould and Cornelius Vanderbilt. For the point, 
Union Station and Grand Central Terminal are major hubs for what entities on which trains travel? 
ANSWER:  
railroad 
 [or  
railway 
; or  
train tracks 
; or equivalents] 
149-12-64-17123 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  4 of 14  © HSAPQ 
24. One member of this city's royal house was abducted by Zeus to become the gods' cupbearer. A sea 
monster was sent to this city to devour Hesione (HEE-zee-OH-nee) because one ruler did not reward 
Apollo and Poseidon for building its walls. In addition to Ganymede (GAH-neh-meed) and Laomedon 
(lay-AH-meh-don), another member of its royal family gave an object that said \"to the fairest\" to 
Aphrodite. For the point, identify this city whose residents included Hector and Priam. 
ANSWER:  
Troy 
 [or  
Ilium 
; or  
Ilion 
] 
186-12-64-17124 
25. This man joined Charles V and Andrea Doria on an ill-fated expedition to capture Algiers. He allied 
with the Totonacs and employed “La Malinche” as an interpreter. Cuitlahuac drove his forces across Lake 
Texcoco in “La Noche Triste.” This man, mistaken for the feathered serpent Quetzalcoatl, besieged 
Tenochtitlan and had earlier held Montezuma II hostage. For the point, name this Spanish conquistador 
who conquered the Aztec Empire. 
ANSWER: Hernán  
Cortés 
 de Monroy y Pizarro [do not accept or prompt on “Pizarro”] 
196-12-64-17125 
26. According to a legend disseminated by Martin of Troppau, John of Mainz was one of these people. A 
literary response to the  
Romance of the Rose 
 imagined a city full of these people, and Boccaccio wrote 
biographies of one hundred six of them. These people often wore linen wimples after entering marriage or a 
nunnery. For the point, Christine de Pisan and Eleanor of Aquitaine are examples of what type of medieval 
person thought inferior to men? 
ANSWER: medieval  
women 
 [prompt on  
Pope 
 Joan before \"Romance\" is read; prompt on any answers that 
obviously miss the point but are technically correct such as  
human beings 
 or  
Europeans 
] 
003-12-64-17126 
27. Victor Stello determined that an explosion was not imminent during this event. A commission headed 
by Darmouth College president John Kemeny was appointed by President Jimmy Carter to review this 
event, which involved a facility located on the Susquehanna River. For the point, name this 1979 nuclear 
accident that occurred in at the namesake power station located near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. 
ANSWER:  
Three Mile Island 
 incident 
030-12-64-17127 
28. While playing for this franchise, a Jewish pitcher refused to play on Yom Kippur during the 1965 
World Series. A pitcher from this franchise named Ralph Branca gave up a home run to Bobby Thomson 
known as the “Shot Heard ‘round the World.” This team’s General Manager Branch Rickey hired such 
African-Americans as Don Newcombe, Roy Campanella and the first player to break the color barrier. This 
franchise played at Ebbets Field and featured Jackie Robinson. For the point, what franchise formerly 
played in Brooklyn and now plays in Los Angeles? 
ANSWER: Los Angeles  
Dodgers 
 [or Brooklyn  
Dodgers 
] 
149-12-64-17128 
29. Within this system, one could avoid military service by paying \"scutage.\" Under this system, \"banal 
rights\" controlled the use of mills, and land was divided into areas like the \"glebe\" and \"demesne.\" This 
system weakened when mercenaries became readily available. \"Fiefs\" were awarded under this system, 
which was organized around manors and relied on promises of military service from \"vassals.\" For the 
point, name this medieval system in which peasants worked the land for their lords. 
ANSWER: the  
feudal 
 system [or  
feudalism 
] 
080-12-64-17129 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  5 of 14  © HSAPQ 
30. The singer of this band wants to “See some history” in a song where he says “The Berlin wall” at the 
end of the chorus. This band originally performed “Holidays in the Sun,” as well as another song that 
opens with the lines “Right now, haha, I am an anti-christ, I am an anarchist.” Members of this band 
included Glen Matlock and Sid Vicious. One member of this band famously performed in orange spiked 
hair and was known as Johnny Rotten. For the point, name this British punk band that originally performed 
“Anarchy in the UK.” 
ANSWER:  
Sex Pistols 
149-12-64-17130 
31. One holder of this position later ran for President of Austria, when his role in Nazi war crimes in 
Saloniki was divulged. Another holder of this position died in a plane crash in Rhodesia during an attempt 
to resolve the Congo Crisis, and was Dag Hammarskjold (HAM-mar-skee-yold). This position derives most 
of its power from the General Assembly and Security Council. For the point, name this position now 
occupied by Ban-ki Moon, the chief administrative officer of a multinational body. 
ANSWER:  
Secretary-General 
 of the United Nations 
080-12-64-17131 
32. While holding this position, Robert Wagner tried to remove gay clubs in the lead up to the 1964 World 
Fair. David Dinkins defeated Ed Koch to become the first African-American to hold it. Dinkins' popularity 
fell after the Crown Heights riot, and was succeeded in 1993 by the first Republican to hold this position 
since 1965. That man gained national attention and was called “America's Mayor” after the 9/11 terrorist 
attacks. For the point, name this chief executive of the largest city in the United States. 
ANSWER:  
mayor of New York 
 City 
121-12-64-17132 
33. Uriah Levy bought this complex after its owner asked “Is this the Fourth?” - his last words before 
dying in it. Its dining room was served by a bucket on a pulley, known as a dumbwaiter. Palladio’s  
Four 
Books of Architecture 
 inspired its octagonal dome design near its tobacco fields. A cabin on its Mulberry 
Row was home to Sally Hemings, who bore children with its owner. For the point, name this central 
Virginia plantation owned by Thomas Jefferson. 
ANSWER:  
Monticello 
104-12-64-17133 
34. A secret Warsaw Pact war plan allocated seven days to reach this river. During the final months of 
World War II, a bridge over this river was captured intact at Remagen. This river’s northern portion and 
Westphalia name a modern state with a capital at Dusseldorf. In 1936, a remilitarization of the land named 
for this river violated the Treaty of Versailles. For the point, name this river, the longest in Germany. 
ANSWER:  
Rhine 
 River [or  
Rhein 
] 
153-12-64-17134 
35. One of these laws was called the “best bill that the Republican Party ever passed” in the Winona 
Speech. Republicans lost almost half of their seats in the House after they passed one of these bills named 
for McKinley in 1890. South Carolina threatened to secede if one of these laws was not repealed, in the 
pamphlet  
Exposition and Protest. 
 One of these laws passed in 1828 caused the Nullification Crisis and was 
known as the this of Abominations. For the point, name these taxes on imported goods. 
ANSWER:  
tariff 
 [prompt on “tax”] 
149-12-64-17135 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  6 of 14  © HSAPQ 
36. In 2011, Congress retained lawyers after the Justice Department refused to defend a law against 
legalizing this action, also the subject of the court cases  
Perry v. Schwarzenegger 
 and  
Goodridge v. 
Department of Public Health 
. New Hampshire, Connecticut, Iowa, Massachusetts, New York, Vermont, 
and D.C. allow this practice, which President Obama declared support for in 2012. For the point, name this 
form of matrimony, outlawed in 2008 in California by Proposition 8. 
ANSWER:  
same-sex marriage 
191-12-64-17136 
37. Former members of this band released the album  
Different Gear, Still Speeding 
, and one of this band's 
songs includes the lyric, \"You made no preparation for my reputation once again.\" Another of this band's 
songs begins, \"I need to be myself, I can't be no one else.” This band behind \"Some Might Say\" and 
\"Supersonic\" also created a song in which Liam Gallagher states, \"I don't believe that anybody feels the 
way I do about you now.\" For the point, identify this English band whose album  
(What's the Story) 
Morning Glory? 
 includes the song \"Wonderwall.\" 
ANSWER:  
Oasis 
189-12-64-17137 
38. This religion publishes a newspaper called  
The Final Call 
 and a Mike Wallace produced documentary 
about it was called “The Hate that Hate Produced.” It believes in an UFO like craft called “the Mother 
Plane” and that the fiendish Dr. Yakub created a “race of devils.” This religion was founded in Detroit and 
one key early leader was Elijah Muhammad. For the point, name this religion currently led by Louis 
Farrakhan which teaches that black people are the original race. 
ANSWER:  
Nation of Islam 
 [do not prompt on or accept “Islam”] 
052-12-64-17138 
39. One person best known as a member of this group coached the \"Seven Blocks of Granite,\" and another 
was succeeded by Bert Bell as NFL Commissioner. This group, consisting of \"Sleepy Jim\" Crowley, Elmer 
Layden, Don Miller, and Harry Stuhldreher earned its nickname following a Knute Rockne-coached 13-7 
upset of Army. For the point, Grantland Rice compared what quartet of Notre Dame football players to 
\"Death, Destruction, Pestilence, and Famine\"? 
ANSWER:  
Four Horsemen 
 of the Apocalypse [or  
Four Horsemen 
 of Notre Dame] 
003-12-64-17139 
40. This man served as both President in a cohabitation government with Lionel Jospin and Prime Minister 
in one with Francois Mitterand. In December 2011 this founder of the Rally for the Republic Party was 
found guilty of embezzling public funds while Mayor of Paris. In 2003 this friend of Vladimir Putin 
threatened to veto a U.N. Security Council Resolution on the Iraq War. For the point, name this two-term 
president of France from 1995 to 2007. 
ANSWER: Jacques Rene  
Chirac 
003-12-64-17140 
41. This ruler surprise-attacked the Sherden sea pirates in his first military victory, and he signed the first 
surviving recorded peace treaty with Hattusili III. This son of Seti I sent thousands of chariots into Syria to 
fight the Hittites at Kadesh, a battle he commemorated with the Abu Simbel temples. For the point, name 
this 13th-century-BC pharaoh also called Ozymandias, who is often held to be the Biblical pharaoh during 
the Exodus. 
ANSWER:  
Rameses II 
 [or  
Rameses 
 the  
Great 
; accept  
Ozymandias 
 until read] 
104-12-64-17141 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  7 of 14  © HSAPQ 
42. One warrior for this polity, accused of committing the Cherry Valley massacre, was Joseph Brant. With 
Dutch guns, they expanded outwards in the Beaver Wars against the French, and these allies of the British 
empire lived in longhouses. The Tuscarora joined this group centuries after it unified under a law attributed 
to Hiawatha. For the point, name this six-tribe Confederacy in upstate New York, which contained the 
Seneca and Mohawk and fought the Algonquins. 
ANSWER:  
Iroquois 
 Confederacy [or  
Iroquois 
 League; or  
Haudenosaunee 
; prompt “People of the 
Longhouse”; accept  
Mohawk 
 until “Beaver” is read and prompt thereafter] 
104-12-64-17142 
43. This organization once used the Blackstone Hotel’s “smoke-filled room” for a key decision. Marcus 
Hanna raised money for this party, whose anti-patronage Half-Breed faction opposed Roscoe Conkling and 
his spoils system-oriented Stalwarts. People called “scalawags” supported this party’s efforts to change the 
South during Reconstruction. For the point, name this political party of Chester Arthur, which first 
controlled the Presidency under Abraham Lincoln. 
ANSWER:  
Republican 
 Party [or  
Grand Old Party 
; or  
GOP 
] 
104-12-64-17143 
44. This party claimed that “socialism cannot come overnight” in its manifesto “Let Us Face the Future.” 
One member from this party, which governed during the “Winter of Discontent,” oversaw the creation of 
the National Health Services. That member of this party, along with Truman and Stalin, attended the 
Potsdam Conference. Another person from this party spearheaded its “New” contingent and participated in 
the War on Terror. Those members of this party were Clement Atlee and Tony Blair. For the point, what 
British political party generally opposes the Conservatives? 
ANSWER:  
Labour 
 Party 
149-12-64-17144 
45. This battle's early stages included the death of Ariabignes, the brother of a commander who sat on 
Mount Aigaleo during it. The island of Psyttalia was raided in this battle. Sicinnus, a servant of one side's 
leader, relayed false information before this battle to the other leader, who was impressed by Artemesia of 
Halicarnassus's fighting. Themistocles led a fleet during this engagement that attempted to defend Corinth 
after the defeat at Thermopylae. For the point, name this naval battle won by the Greeks against Xerxes I 
during the Persian Wars. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Salamis 
192-12-64-17145 
46. This man's first presidential campaign was hampered by the quote, \"If you give me a week, I might 
think of one.\" This man won a Senate election by dubbing his opponent the \"Pink Lady.\" His book  
Six 
Crises 
 includes accounts of the \"kitchen debate,\" the Alger Hiss trial, and the allegations that led him to 
give the \"Checkers Speech.\" For the point, name this Vice President under Eisenhower who lost to John 
Kennedy before becoming President eight years later. 
ANSWER: Richard Milhous  
Nixon 
003-12-64-17146 
47. This country’s Patriot Party led its Batavian Republic. Cornelius and John De Witt were killed in this 
country at the start of a war ended by the Treaty of (NIME-vay-gen) Nijmwegen. It signed the Treaty of 
Ryswick with France's Louis XIV. Violence during this country’s rebellion against the Spanish was 
opposed by the stadholder William the Silent who came from the House of Orange. For the point, name this 
country that experienced a tulip craze. 
ANSWER: the  
Netherlands 
 [or the  
Dutch Republic 
; or  
Holland 
] 
149-12-64-17147 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  8 of 14  © HSAPQ 
48. This initiative led to the creation of an international body called the OEEC, and was administered by 
Paul Hoffman, who sent the  
John H. Quick 
 from Galveston loaded with wheat. Proposed in a Harvard 
Commencement Address by the Secretary of State, this program helped contain communism alongside the 
Truman Doctrine. For the point, name this United States program that gave aid to European countries after 
World War II. 
ANSWER: the  
Marshall Plan 
080-12-64-17148 
49. This man received a gold medal for capturing over 150 British soldiers in a surprise attack on Paulus 
Hook. This man eulogized George Washington as \"first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his 
countrymen.\" Washington gave this man command of the militia that put down the Whiskey Rebellion. For 
the point, name this Revolutionary War hero whose son commanded the Army of Northern Virginia for the 
Confederacy. 
ANSWER: \"Light Horse  arry\"  
H Lee 
 [or  
Light Horse 
 Lee; prompt on  
Lee 
; or  enry  
H Lee 
 III; do not accept 
or prompt on \"Richard Henry Lee;\" do not accept or prompt on \"Robert E. Lee\"] 
080-12-64-17149 
50. One side in this conflict was made aware of a scuttled arms shipment from radio transmissions 
intercepted in Room 40. The instigators of this event made their headquarters at the General Post Office 
and also included Roger Casement, who was arrested in the days prior to it. Sparked by the suspension of 
the Home Rule Bill, this event was led by Patrick Pearse and James Connolly and commemorated in a 
poem by W.B. Yeats. For the point, name this 1916 failed rebellion by the Irish Republican Brotherhood, 
occurring on the namesake holiday. 
ANSWER:  
Easter 
 Rising [accept equivalent terms for “Rising”] 
141-12-64-17150 
51. The Red Army heavily bombarded this country’s Bornholm Island when its Nazi German garrison 
insisted on surrendering to the Western Allies. With the support of King Christian X, this country 
evacuated the majority of its Jewish population to nearby Sweden. For the point, name this country, which 
was seized by Nazi Germany en route to an invasion of Norway. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Denmark 
 [or  
Konigeriget Danmark 
] 
153-12-64-17151 
52. This thinker stated in one work that, in aesthetics, there are only four possible \"reflective judgments,\" 
being the agreeable, the sublime, the beautiful, and the good. This man distinguished between  
a priori 
 and  
a posteriori 
 knowledge, and his  
Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals 
 discusses the idea that one act 
in such a way that his or her choice of actions becomes universal law; that concept is known as the 
categorical imperative. For the point, identify this German thinker who wrote the  
Critique of Pure Reason 
. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
189-12-64-17152 
53. This kingdom emerged after its first king used British-bought cannons at the Battle of Leaping Mullet. 
Its Asians were disenfranchised by the Bayonet Constitution at the behest of Sanford Dole, whose 
plantations on its land grew pineapples. Its last sovereign queen was Liliuokalani, a descendant of five 
kings named Kamehameha. For the point, name this Pacific kingdom annexed by the United States. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Hawai’i 
 [or  
Hawaii 
an Empire] 
104-12-64-17153 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  9 of 14  © HSAPQ 
54. One of these ventures patrols the Kokkinna Exclave and Nicosia’s Green Line. The modern concept for 
this type of venture was developed during the Suez Crisis, and participants in these ventures usually wear 
blue headgear. One failed venture of this type that was deployed to support the Arusha Accords was 
UNAMIR. For the point, name these multinational missions sanctioned by the Security Council of the 
United Nations. 
ANSWER: United Nations  
peacekeep 
ing missions [do not accept “peacebuilding” or “peacemaking”] 
153-12-64-17154 
55. The biggest use of this unit type in Vietnam was during Operation Junction City. General McAullife led 
a division of this kind when he replied “Nuts” to a surrender request while besieged at Bastogne during the 
Battle of the Bulge. Units of this type held bridges at Eindhoven, Nijmegen, and Arnhem during Operation 
Market Garden. For the point, name these units such as the 82nd and 101st Divisions, that were sent into 
northern Iraq in March 2003 and originally used parachutes. 
ANSWER:  
airborne 
 infantry [or  
air assault 
; or  
air mobile 
; or  
paratrooper 
s; or  
parachute 
 troops before 
read; prompt on  
glider 
 troops; prompt on  
helicopter 
 troops; do not accept “air attack”; do not accept “air 
strike”; do not accept “air raid”] 
153-12-64-17155 
56. This battle was preceded by one at Brandy Station, and it began with a clash between the forces of 
Henry Heth and John Buford near Cashtown. Joshua Chamberlain ordered a bayonet charge on Little 
Round Top in this battle, which also saw fighting on Cemetery Ridge. Ending with Pickett's Charge, this 
battle was a victory for George Mead over Robert E. Lee. For the point, name this July 1863 battle in 
Pennsylvania. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Gettysburg 
196-12-64-17156 
57. In 1647, the captaincy-general that is now this country was hit by a major earthquake, whose relics 
include the miraculously preserved Cristo de Mayo crucifix. Its city of Concepcion was among the hardest 
hit by another earthquake, of magnitude 8.8, that struck in 2010. This country owns the western portion of 
Tierra del Fuego, and most of the Atacama Desert lies within this country, which owns Easter Island. For 
the point, name this extremely elongated South American nation with its capital at Santiago. 
ANSWER:  
Chile 
140-12-64-17157 
58. Several plotters of this event, including a man code-named “Apis,” were shot after the Salonika trial. 
This event occurred after a Graf and Stift brand car stalled while reversing near the Latin Bridge. Sophie 
von Chotek died in this event planned by the Black Hand, which caused the issuing of the Serbian 
ultimatum, and was carried out by Gavrilo Princip after a bomb failed. For the point, name this shooting in 
Sarajevo of an heir apparent, which helped trigger World War I. 
ANSWER:  
assassination 
 of Archduke  
Franz Ferdinand 
 [accept reasonable equivalents describing 
Archduke  
Franz Ferdinand 
’s death] 
104-12-64-17158 
59. One citizen of this country renamed the  
Little Sarah 
, a ship he captured and armed in Charleston 
harbor. A US president vowed “Millions of dollars for defense, but not one cent for tribute” to this country 
after it sparked the Quasi-War by demanding a bribe for diplomatic access in the XYZ Affair. For the 
point, name this European country which the early US refused to support in its wars against Britain, the 
home of Citizen Genet (zheh-NAY) and the Marquis de Lafayette. 
ANSWER:  
France 
 [or French  
First Republic 
; or  
Republique francaise 
] 
104-12-64-17159 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  10 of 14  © HSAPQ 
60. Jacob van Artevelde made his fortune in this industry, which was prominent in Jacob's home town of 
Ghent and the rest of Flanders. The spinning jenny increased productivity in this industry, which the 
Lowell Girls participated in. It was given a boost in England with the enclosure movement, which replaced 
tenant farmers with pastures for sheep. For the point, name this industry, whose centers in the USA 
included North Carolina and New England river towns, and which was concerned with material for 
clothing. 
ANSWER:  
textile 
 industry [or  
silk 
; or  
wool 
; or obvious equivalents like “fabric” or “cloth” before 
mentioned] 
121-12-64-17160 
61. A team including Thomas Lamont, Albert Wiggin, and Richard Whitney attempted to stave of this 
event by quickly acquiring blue chips. The Pecora Commission investigated the causes of this event. In 
response to this event, congress passed a bill separating investment and commercial banks, called the 
Glass-Steagall act. Despite this event, the president refused to veto the Smoot-Hawley Tariff. For the point, 
name this event in which the Dow Jones fell 89%, marking the beginning of the Great Depression. 
ANSWER:  
Great Crash 
 [or  
1929 Stock Market Crash 
 or  
Black Tuesday 
 or  
Black Monday 
] 
048-12-64-17161 
62. The protagonist of this novel tracks down Mary after eating chutney from the factory she owns. In this 
novel, Jamila becomes a famous singer after her family moves following a military loss to China. The 
protagonist of this novel escapes from the army and moves in with Parvati-the-witch in a magician’s 
ghetto. For the point, name this novel by Salman Rushdie whose title characters were born at the moment 
of India’s independence from Britain and include Shiva and Saleem Sinai. 
ANSWER:  
Midnight’s Children 
105-12-64-17162 
63. A recent theory blames this crisis on ergot poisoning from moldy bread. William Stoughton was 
appointed by new governor William Phipps to oversee these events. Blame was heaped on the black slave 
Tituba during these proceedings, in which “spectral evidence” helped Cotton and Increase Mather explain 
the shaking fits of young girls. For the point, name these proceedings in which dozens of people were 
rashly executed for Satanic conduct in colonial Massachusetts. 
ANSWER:  
Salem witch trial 
s [prompt on partial answer] 
104-12-64-17163 
64. Song contests feature prominently in this composer's operas  
Tannhauser 
 (TAHN-hoyz-er) and  
The 
Master Singers of Nuremberg. 
 Another work by this man features the \"potion\" leitmotif (LIGHT-moe-teef), 
which appears in the prelude along with a chord named for the first title character. That opera ends with the 
second title character singing the \"Liebestod.\" For the point, name this composer of  
Tristan and Isolde 
 who 
brought German opera to grandiose heights but remains controversial for his virulent anti-Semitism and 
influence on Hitler. 
ANSWER: Richard  
Wagner 
142-12-64-17164 
65. An Exclusive Economic Zone in this body of water triggered the Cod Wars over fishing rights in it. A 
joint declaration named for it stated lower trade barriers, a lack of territorial aggression, and freedom of the 
seas among eight principles, and was agreed to by Churchill and Roosevelt. The German ship  
Bismarck 
sank in this body which names a “Charter” binding the Allies. For the point, name this large body of water 
in which the  
Titanic 
 sunk. 
ANSWER:  
Atlantic 
 Ocean 
104-12-64-17165 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  11 of 14  © HSAPQ 
66. One photograph produced in this country, titled  
Good Reputation Sleeping 
, was intended to be used by 
Andre Breton for a 1940 Surrealist exhibition here. One artist from this nation created the  
Gods of the 
Modern World 
 mural as part of the increased production of nationalistic murals in this country during the 
early 20th century. Another artist from this country depicted Vladimir Lenin in his  
Man at the Crossroads 
, 
and was married to Frida Kahlo. For the point, identify this country home to muralists such as Jose Orozco 
and Diego Rivera. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
189-12-64-17166 
67. Later improvements made to this device made short-staple spinning possible. Phineas Miller failed to 
prevent this device’s duplication after it failed for many years to get a patent. This implement is believed to 
have fueled the growth of slavery, and it used a wire screen and hooks to separate seeds from fiber. For the 
point, name this mechanical device that facilitated the production of a cash crop common in the American 
South, invented by Eli Whitney. 
ANSWER:  
cotton 
 en 
gin 
e 
117-12-64-17167 
68. As this period began, internal passports began blocking “rural” people from moving or becoming 
“urban” people. During htis period, sparrows were killed en masse and people sacrificed their pots and 
pans to melting in backyard furnaces, producing low-quality steel. Liu Shaoqi (shao-CHEE) devised this 
program, which led to huge famines. For the point, name this failed program in Mao’s China which sought 
rapid agricultural and industrial progress. 
ANSWER:  
Great Leap Forward 
 [or  
Dayuejin 
; or  
Second Chinese Five Year Plan 
] 
104-12-64-17168 
69. This person was taught Russian by future Belarusian leader Stanislau Shuskevich while on a trip where 
he met his wife, Marina. Under the pseudonym A.J. Hidell, this man led the Fair Play for Cuba Committee 
in New Orleans. He fired shots at General Edwin Walker months before being arrested for killing J.D. 
Tippit. This man is best known for actions he took in the Texas School Book Depository in November 
1963, which led to his death at the hands of Jack Ruby. For the point, name this man who assassinated John 
F. Kennedy. 
ANSWER: Lee Harvey  
Oswald 
192-12-64-17169 
70. This ethnicity’s  
nobi 
 were a caste of servants who could be sold. One military vehicle piloted by these 
people had a full wooden roof over its deck and, though they weren’t Vikings, a dragon’s head at the 
prow. These people got a new alphabet under the isolated “hermit kingdom” of Sejong the Great; that 
Joseon dynasty used covered “turtle ships” to protect their land from Japanese invasion. For the point, 
name these people who now live on a divided peninsula. 
ANSWER:  
Korean 
s [or  
Hanguk 
-in] 
104-12-64-17170 
71. In this election year, Dan Rostenkowski lost a re-election bid after being implicated in a Post Office 
scandal, and George Nethercutt defeated sitting Speaker of the House Tom Foley. Jon Kyl, Olympia 
Snowe, and Rick Santorum were all first elected to the Senate in this year, when the \"Contract with 
America\" was signed. For the point, the \"Republican Revolution\" occurred in what election year at the 
midpoint of Bill Clinton's first term? 
ANSWER: Congressional Election of  
1994 
003-12-64-17171 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  12 of 14  © HSAPQ 
72. This vessel was captained by \"Bowler Bill\" Turner, who failed to implement zigzagging tactics or avoid 
the coast of Ireland. Alfred Vanderbilt, of the wealthy Vanderbilt family, died aboard this ship. Because it 
was holding over 150 tons of munitions rather than precious metals, this ship was attacked by Walther 
Schwieger, resulting in over 1000 deaths. For the point, name this ocean liner whose sinking by a German 
U-boat in 1915 contributed to the American entry into World War I. 
ANSWER: the  
Lusitania 
080-12-64-17172 
73. One group that supported this cause was founded by Howard Russell and featured such members as 
William “Pussyfoot” Johnson and Wayne Wheeler. Another group that supported this cause was led by 
Frances Willard and was known as the WCTU. Woodrow Wilson vetoed an act championed by this cause 
named for Volstead. The twenty-first amendment marked the ended a period named for this cause that 
occurred after the passage of the eighteenth amendment. For the point, name this movement to ban alcohol 
in the United States. 
ANSWER:  
Prohibition 
 [prompt on descriptions] 
149-12-64-17173 
74. During the Election of 1972, Republicans attacked George McGovern for representing amnesty, 
abortion, and this product. Richard Nixon applied the label \"the most dangerous man in America\" to one of 
its advocates, who experimented with it at Millbrook. In Project MK-Ultra, the CIA attempted to use this 
product for mind control. The slogan \"turn on, tune in, drop out\" was used to advertise this product by Dr. 
Timothy Leary. For the point, name this psychedelic drug popularly known as \"acid.\" 
ANSWER:  
LSD 
 [or  
acid 
 before it is read; or  
Lysergic acid diethylamide 
] 
080-12-64-17174 
75. One side in this battle was delayed while waiting for Robert Lloyd's fleet from the Battle of Fayal. 
During this engagement, a flooded canal prevented William Thornton from supporting John Keane, who 
camped east of this battle's location after the Battle of Lake Borgne. The British seized Fort St. Philip after 
this battle, during which they were led by Edward Pakenham and Alexander Cochrane. This battle occurred 
several weeks after the Treaty of Ghent was signed. For the point, name this victory for Andrew Jackson in 
Louisiana during the War of 1812. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
New Orleans 
192-12-64-17175 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  13 of 14  © HSAPQ 
Extra Questions 
76. In one of this artist’s paintings, a servant named Pompey shoots the sniper who killed the title figure, 
and this artist created a portrait of a figure who holds a gray pot in his hand as engraving tools sit nearby. 
This painter of  
The Death of Major Peirson 
 and a portrait of Paul Revere also created a work in which one 
figure standing at the edge of a small boat points a spear downward at the title creature in Havana Harbor. 
For the point, identify this American portraitist who painted  
Watson and the Shark 
. 
ANSWER: John Singleton  
Copley 
189-12-64-17176 
77. This ruler shortened the required length of military service from 25 years to 6 and imposed conscription 
on all classes on the advice of Dmitri Milyutin. He organized a system of local councils that provided for 
education and health care and were called  
zemstvos 
. Assassinated by the People's Will, this successor of 
Nicholas I enacted a series of \"Great Reforms\" that weakened the landowning class. For the point, name 
this Russian tsar who emancipated the serfs. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander II 
 Romanov [prompt on  
Alexander 
] 
080-12-64-17177 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2012 NHBB Set C     Bee Round 7     Page  14 of 14  © HSAPQ 
