2013 NHB Set C 
Bee Round 3 
BEE ROUND 3 
1. Billy Sunday’s preaching was in support of this movement. Neil Dow, John St. John, and Silas Swallow 
ran as Presidential candidates for a party named after this movement, which was supported by 
organizations founded by Wayne Wheeler and Frances Willard. Helped by the Volstead Act, this 
movement succeeded with the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment. For the point, name this movement 
to ban the production and sale of alcohol in the United States. 
ANSWER:  
Prohibition 
 [or  
temperance 
] 
140-13-87-13101 
2. This man came to power during the \"anti-bureaucratic revolution.\" This leader was ousted during the 
Bulldozer Revolution, which was backed by the Otpor! movement that protested his rule. This leader’s 
military was the target of the NATO Operation Allied Force bombing campaign in 1999 when he targeted 
Albanians in Kosovo. This leader’s death in 2006 ended his ICTY trial at The Hague for war crimes 
committed during the breakup of Yugoslavia. For the point, name this former Serbian president. 
ANSWER: Slobodan  
Milosevic 
 [or  
Sloba 
] 
153-13-87-13102 
3. Under this President, the United States began Operation 40 in Cuba and employed Allen Dulles as head 
of the CIA. This President defeated Democrat Adlai Stevenson both times he was elected to office. After 
being successfully drafted to run for President, he chose Richard Nixon as a running mate and campaigned 
with the slogan \"I Like Ike.\" For the point, identify this five-star general and President who ended the 
Korean War. 
ANSWER: Dwight David \"Ike\"  
Eisenhower 
066-13-87-13103 
4. During World War II, this country experienced hyperinflation of the pengo and was dominated by the 
fascist Arrow Cross Party. Cardinal Jozsef Mindszenty (mend-ZEN-tee) was imprisoned in this country. 
Janos (YAH-nowsh) Kadar came to power following an upheaval in this country, which was previously led 
by Admiral Miklos Horthy. For the point, name this home of \"Goulash Communism,\" where Imre Nagy 
(NAJ) was executed after a failed 1956 revolution against Soviet domination. 
ANSWER:  
Hungary 
030-13-87-13104 
5. One group of people with this title was led by Fulkes de Villaret (vee-yuh-RAY) and conquered Rhodes 
in 1309. Another group of people with this title was disbanded after the burning of their leader Jacques de 
Molay, as part of Philip IV's plan to confiscate their wealth. Groups of these people were known as the 
\"Hospitallers\" and \"Templars.\" For the point, identify these members of chivalric crusading orders in the 
Middle Ages, or members of the horse-riding nobility under feudalism. 
ANSWER:  
knight 
s [or  
Knight 
s Hospitallers; or  
Knight 
s Templar] 
019-13-87-13105 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  1 of 6 
6. An image in  
Ebony 
 magazine showed this man holding an M-1 Carbine and looking out a window. Alex 
Haley wrote the \"Autobiography of\" this man. He controversially dubbed John F. Kennedy's assassination 
an example of \"chickens coming home to roost.\" He urged African-Americans to make careful use of their 
voting rights in his \"The Ballot or the Bullet\" speech. For the point, name this advocate of black 
nationalism who was assassinated in Harlem in 1965. 
ANSWER: Malcolm   [or Malcolm  
X Little 
; or el-Hajj Malik el- 
Shabazz 
] 
185-13-87-13106 
7. Some members of this political party were derisively called the \"blue lights.\" A member of this political 
party authored the  
Report on Manufactures. 
 Members of this party met at the Hartford Convention during 
the War of 1812. Jay’s Treaty was aligned with this party’s pro-British foreign policy. It advocated a 
strong central government and supported the formation of a central bank. For the point, name this early 
American political party of Alexander Hamilton and John Adams. 
ANSWER:  
Federalist 
 Party [or  
Federalist 
s] 
185-13-87-13107 
8. This man's government removed over ten thousand impoverished citizens from temporary shelters in 
\"Operation Drive Out the Rubbish.\" After losing a round of voting in 2008, this former opponent of Ian 
Smith was forced to reach a power-sharing agreement with Morgan Tsvangirai (suh-van-GEE-rye). His 
economic policy led to a hundred trillion Zim-dollars being worth roughly thirty-three American cents. For 
the point, name this longtime dictator of Zimbabwe. 
ANSWER: Robert Gabriel  
Mugabe 
230-13-87-13108 
9. This Protestant denomination agreed to support English Puritans against Catholics in the Solemn League 
and Covenant. Its founder attacked the reigns of Mary of Guise and Mary Tudor in his  
First Blast of the 
Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women. 
 This is the denomination of the Kirk, the official 
Church of Scotland. For the point, name this Protestant sect founded by John Knox, which takes its name 
from the councils of elders who govern its churches. 
ANSWER:  
Presbyterian 
ism [prompt on  
Calvinism 
 or word forms until \"Mary of Guise\" is read] 
080-13-87-13109 
10. This man created a finished sculpture out of a block of marble that Agostino di Duccio had abandoned. 
He depicted his own flayed skin alongside a knife held by St. Bartholomew. A mistranslation of the New 
Testament resulted in his statue of Moses for Julius II's tomb including horns. He sculpted a dead Christ in 
the arms of Mary in his  
Pieta. 
 For the point, name this sculptor of a marble  
David 
 who painted  
The Last 
Judgment 
 on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. 
ANSWER:  
Michelangelo 
 [or Michelangelo di Lodovico  
Buonarotti 
 Simoni] 
186-13-87-13110 
11. This man's company factory was the site of a speech by August Spies and a police attack on workers, 
which led to a rally at Haymarket Square the next day. While defending a patent claim filed by this man, 
Edwin Stanton called Abraham Lincoln a \"damned long armed ape.\" This man's main rival was Obed 
Hussey. His company combined with one led by William Deering to form International Harvester. For the 
point, identify this inventor of the mechanical reaper. 
ANSWER: Cyrus  
McCormick 
066-13-87-13111 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  2 of 6 
12. According to legend, this leader was born holding a blood clot. His wife Borte (BOR-tay) was 
kidnapped by the Merkits. The massacre of a caravan under this ruler's protection sparked his bloody 
conquest of Khwarezm. Temujin was the birth name of this leader, who began the conquest of China’s Jin 
dynasty. He was succeeded by his third son Ogedei, and his grandson founded the Yuan (WON) dynasty. 
For the point, name this unifier of the Mongols who conquered much of Asia. 
ANSWER:  
Genghis Khan 
 [or  
Chingis Khan 
; or  
Temujin 
 until it is read] 
185-13-87-13112 
13. This man argued that ending slavery should be a goal of the Civil War in \"The Prayer of Twenty 
Millions.\" This man was the only major Presidential candidate to receive zero electoral votes, since he died 
before the Electoral College met. He signed the bail bond for Jefferson Davis, and he ran as an 
anti-corruption Liberal Republican against Ulysses S. Grant in 1872. For the point, name this editor of the  
New York Tribune 
 sometimes credited with coining the phrase \"Go west, young man.\" 
ANSWER: Horace  
Greeley 
080-13-87-13113 
14. The French traveler Jean-Baptist Tavernier originated the legend that a corresponding \"black\" structure 
to this one was built on the opposite side of the river. Ustad Ahmad Lahauri was the chief architect of this 
building, which was restored under Lord Curzon after the stripping of lapis lazuli from its exterior during 
the Sepoy Mutiny. A reflecting pool lies outside this mausoleum. For the point, name this white marble 
Agra landmark commissioned by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan. 
ANSWER:  
Taj Mahal 
020-13-87-13114 
15. These objects consisted of \"quires\" and, though not metallic, were made in the \"insular style.\" Symbols 
of the four evangelists frequently recur in one of these objects named for the Abbey of Kells. Cows were 
killed en masse to provide the necessary  
vellum 
 for a single one of these objects. For the point, name these 
precious medieval objects that could be \"illuminated\" with images accompanying their text. 
ANSWER: illuminated  
manuscripts 
 [or  
books 
] 
080-13-87-13115 
16. The crossing of the English Channel during D-Day is named for this god. Agnolo Bronzino depicted the 
Genoan ruler Andrew Doria as this god. Medusa had her hair turned into venomous snakes after being 
raped by this god. This deity struck the Earth and made a salty spring come forth, while his rival Athena 
created an olive tree, in a contest to see who would become the patron deity of Athens. For the point, 
identify this god of the sea and brother to Zeus and Hades. 
ANSWER:  
Neptune 
 [or  
Poseidon 
] 
066-13-87-13116 
17. This man wrote music for a celebration of the first monarch of Hungary, his  
King Stephen. 
 That 
premiered at the same time as another historical piece,  
The Ruins of Athens, 
 which contained his 
contribution to the \"Janissary music\" fad. This composer dedicated his third symphony \"to the memory of a 
great man\" after angrily tearing up the earlier dedication to Napoleon. For the point, name this composer of 
the  
Eroica 
 symphony as well as the  
Pastoral 
 symphony and  
Fur Elise. 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven 
019-13-87-13117 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  3 of 6 
18. Many of this city's institutions were attributed to the semi-mythical reformer Lycurgus. This city was 
known for using laconic replies to threats such as \"if.\" Lysander was a military leader from this city, that 
won the battle of Aegospotami (eye-GO-spot-oh-meye). This city was ruled by five magistrates called 
ephors and had two kings. This city’s society included state-owned serfs called helots. For the point, name 
this city that defeated Athens in the Peloponnesian War. 
ANSWER:  
Sparta 
185-13-87-13118 
19. With the Kansas City Chiefs, this team holds the record for the longest game played in NFL history. 
Bob Griese and Earl Morrall led this team to Super Bowl VII, in which they defeated the Washington 
Redskins despite Garo Yepremian's disastrous attempt at a pass. This team was defeated by the Redskins 
and the 49ers in two early 1980s Super Bowls. For the point, name this NFL team long quarterbacked by 
Dan Marino in south Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Miami 
 Dolphins [or Miami  
Dolphins 
] 
227-13-87-13119 
20. This island may correspond to the ancient Greek Cassiterides, or \"tin islands.\" Agricola defeated tribes 
such as the Ordovices and the Caledonians here. Aulus Plautius defeated the Catevellauni on this island, 
whose invasion was advanced by Vespasian. On this island, Suetonius won at Watling Street against the 
Iceni tribe, led by Queen Boudicca. This island was divided by the Antonine Wall and Hadrian’s Wall. For 
the point, name this island, home to the Roman city of Londinium. 
ANSWER: Great  
Britain 
 [or  
Britannia 
] 
232-13-87-13120 
21. One king by this name requested that Parliament pass the \"Pains and Penalties Bill\" during his feud 
with his wife Caroline. Another king of this name defeated the duke of Noailles (NEW-eye-ee) in a War of 
the Austrian Succession battle at Dettingen. The first king of this name leapfrogged fifty people in the 
succession due to his Protestantism, becoming the first king of Great Britain under Act of Settlement rules. 
For the point, give this common name of four Hanoverian kings from 1714 to 1830. 
ANSWER:  
George 
 [or  
George 
 IV; or  
George 
 II; or  
George 
 I] 
019-13-87-13121 
22. At a Greyhound bus station in this city, John Lewis and James Zwerg were beaten by a mob. An 
attempted march to this city was ended after only six blocks when people were attacked at the Edmund 
Pettus Bridge on \"Bloody Sunday.\" Those marches to this city started in the city of Selma. A boycott of this 
city's bus system was organized by Edgar Nixon and Martin Luther King, Jr. after Rosa Parks was arrested 
for refusing to give up her seat to a white man. For the point, identify this Alabama city. 
ANSWER:  
Montgomery 
, Alabama 
066-13-87-13122 
23. This territory was the subject of a meeting led by Pierre Soule that led to the Ostend Manifesto. 
Proponents of slavery wanted it annexed as a slave state, a move that, after the Civil War, was prohibited 
by the Teller Amendment. The Platt Amendment allowed the United States to intervene in this country’s 
affairs, and the U.S. took control of this country’s Guantanamo Bay. For the point, name this island 
country that gained independence following the Spanish-American War. 
ANSWER:  
Cuba 
140-13-87-13123 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  4 of 6 
24. An artists' academy founded in sixteenth century Rome was named after this saint, who supposedly 
painted many icons of the Virgin Mary. This man's book contains an account of the Census of Quirinius, 
and he also described a vision of a sheet full of animals, the defeat of Simon Magus, and \"tongues of 
flames.\" The Parable of the Good Samaritan and the entire infancy of Jesus are unique to his gospel. For 
the point, name this author of Acts of the Apostles and the third of the four gospels. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Luke 
 the Evangelist 
020-13-87-13124 
25. These people were subject to \"redemption payments\" that were not abolished until 1907. These people 
lost control of the \"otrezki\" lands as part of a compromise that also gave them limited rights to 
representation in the new \"zemstvos.\" An 1861 \"emancipation manifesto\" removed legal disabilities on 
these people. For the point, name these people freed by Alexander II from their ties to agricultural servitude 
in Russia. 
ANSWER: Russian  
serf 
s [or Russian  
peasant 
s; or former  
serfs 
, etc.] 
019-13-87-13125 
26. The first episode of this series involves a run \"three miles up, three miles down\" a hill called Currahee. 
Based on a book by historian Stephen Ambrose, this series focuses on Richard Winters's unit, which fights 
in the Battle of the Bulge, D-Day, and Market Garden as part of the 101st Airborne. For the point, name 
this Stephen Spielberg HBO drama about the paratroopers of Easy Company during World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Band of Brothers 
153-13-87-13126 
27. This city’s neighborhood of Insa gained popularity with international tourists during the 1988 Summer 
Olympics. The Moonlight Rainbow Fountain can be found along this city’s Banpo Bridge, which runs over 
the Han River. It has been home to several incarnations of the \"Blue House\" executive residence. This city 
is connected to the amphibious landing site of Incheon by an extensive subway system, and it contains 
districts such as Gangnam. For the point, name this capital city of South Korea. 
ANSWER:  
Seoul 
 Special City 
227-13-87-13127 
28. At a World's Fair held in this city, items such as computer monitors and modems were displayed to the 
public decades before the home computer became available, and the State Pavilion and Unisphere were 
built. At an earlier World's Fair here, General Motors sponsored an intricate diorama known as the 
Futurama exhibit. For the point, name this location of the 1939 and 1964 World's Fairs, the latter of which 
made permanent improvements to Flushing Meadows and the Shea Stadium area in Queens. 
ANSWER:  
New York 
 City 
019-13-87-13128 
29. An opponent of this politician runs a popular LiveJournal blog and ironically called himself a \"little 
network hamster.\" This man's government posthumously laid charges of tax fraud on a lawyer employed by 
Hermitage Capital. A July 2013 law signed by him attacked homosexuality, leading to calls for a boycott of 
the Winter Olympics in Sochi. He succeeded his former Prime Minister, Dmitry Medvedev. For the point, 
name this president of Russia. 
ANSWER: Vladimir Vladimirovich  
Putin 
232-13-87-13129 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  5 of 6 
30. The first usable one of these objects was built by Thomas Savery, who implemented Denis Papin's 
design. John Calley and Thomas Newcomen built the first one for large-scale production, which used 
atmospheric pressure to return to the initial state after condensation created a vacuum. The separate 
condenser was invented to fix the waste heat in these objects by James Watt. For the point, identify these 
machines whose ability to pump water out of mines drove the Industrial Revolution. 
ANSWER:  
steam engine 
s 
019-13-87-13130 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 3     Page  6 of 6 
