2013 NHB Set C 
Bee Round 4 
BEE ROUND 4 
1. This man participated in the Wagon Box Fight near Fort Kearny and also took part in the Fetterman 
Massacre. This man refused to honor the provisions of the Second Treaty of Fort Laramie, and he was 
pursued by General George Crook after gold was discovered in the Black Hills. A monument to this man 
was begun by Korczak (CORE-chak) Siolkowski in 1948 and is still being designed. For the point, name 
this Oglala Sioux chief who united with Sitting Bull to defeat General Custer at Little Bighorn. 
ANSWER:  
Crazy Horse 
 [or  
Ta-sunko-witko 
] 
030-13-87-14101 
2. Herbert Hoover's wife christened the first purpose-built one of these objects, the  
Ranger, 
 in 1933. The  
Saratoga 
 and  
Independence 
 were examples of these items which were scuttled by atomic bomb tests in 
Operation Crossroads. The  
Lexington 
 was one destroyed in the Battle of the Coral Sea, and the  
Yorktown 
was one of these sunk at Midway. For the point, identify this type of ship, now extant in  
Nimitz 
 and  
Ford 
classes, which transports fighter planes. 
ANSWER: American aircraft  
carrier 
s 
019-13-87-14102 
3. Two training exercises that raised tensions before this event were Operation Purple Storm and Operation 
Sand Flea. The Vatican mission was blasted with loud rock music during Operation Nifty Package to force 
the military dictator deposed by this event to surrender. George H.W. Bush ordered this 1989 event in order 
to bring Manuel Noriega to trial for drug trafficking. For the point, identify this American invasion of a 
Central American country with a major shipping canal. 
ANSWER: United States invasion of  
Panama 
 [or Operation  
Just Cause 
] 
153-13-87-14103 
4. This country's national team won a game against England when a missed handball call led to a goal 
known as \"The Hand of God.\" With Brazil's Pelé, a player from this country is the FIFA Player of the 
Twentieth Century. In 2012, a forward from this country who plays in Spain became the first player to 
score five goals in a Champions League match, doing so for Barcelona. For the point, name this country, 
the home to Diego Maradona and Lionel Messi. 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
 [or  
Argentine Republic 
; or  
Republica Argentina 
] 
186-13-87-14104 
5. This group of people refused to fight against the Aequi and Volsci, beginning a political conflict which 
ended when the Lex Hortensia granted them legal rights. Two of the  
aediles 
 were guaranteed to be from 
this social class. These people's interests were represented by the  
populares 
 and the tribunes. These people 
initiated the Conflict of the Orders with their \"secession.\" For the point, name these commoners in the 
Roman Republic, who were inferior to patricians. 
ANSWER:  
plebeian 
s [or  
pleb 
s] 
020-13-87-14105 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  1 of 15 
6. The working name of this discovery was AL 288-1, and a similar, more complete discovery was 
nicknamed \"Ardi.\" The reconstruction of this discovery had to be redone because of discrepancies in the 
pelvic girdle. It was found near the Awash River in the Hadar Formation in the Afar Triangle. Donald 
Johanson and Tim White unearthed this organism, a specimen from the  
Australopithecus afarensis 
 species. 
For the point, identify this fossil found in Ethiopia and named after a Beatles song. 
ANSWER:  
Lucy 
 [prompt on  
Australopithecus  afarensis 
] 
020-13-87-14106 
7. This country, the home of the \"Laser Man\" serial killings, was where the longest-serving prime minister 
in a parliamentary democracy, Tage Erlander, was in power from 1946 to 1969. This was the home country 
of a diplomat during the Holocaust who used this country's passports to save Hungarian Jews, named Raoul 
Wallenberg. U.N. Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold was from this country. For the point, name this 
most populous country in Scandinavia. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Sweden 
019-13-87-14107 
8. This man's body was exhumed to be symbolically executed alongside Henry Ireton and John Bradshaw. 
He commanded the army which defeated the Scottish Engagers at Preston. His forces killed 3500 
townspeople at the Siege of Drogheda, part of his Irish campaign. This man instituted the Barebones 
Parliament and led the New Model Army for the Parliamentarian forces of the English Civil War. For the 
point, name this \"Lord Protector\" during the English Commonwealth. 
ANSWER: Oliver  
Cromwell 
121-13-87-14108 
9. These two people were raised by Faustulus and his wife. These two people got into an argument after 
one saw twelve vultures and the other saw six. One of these two people killed the other after the victim 
mocked his low wall by jumping over it. A woodpecker and a female wolf gave sustenance to these two 
people after they were cast into the Tiber River. These two people were the sons of Rhea Silvia. For the 
point, identify these brothers and founders of Rome. 
ANSWER:  
Romulus 
 and  
Remus 
 [either order is acceptable, but don't accept or prompt on just one answer] 
066-13-87-14109 
10. Adherents of this religion ruled the \"taifa\" kingdoms, and were defeated at Caurte (cah-OR-tay) by El 
Cid. Rulers of this religion displaced the Visigoths in 711 and established a territory which they called 
\"al-Andalus.\" Kings of this religion were the targets of the \"Reconquista,\" which reduced their lands to 
Granada and finally expelled Boabdil in 1492. For the point, name this religion whose members established 
a branch of the Umayyad dynasty that ruled medieval Spain. 
ANSWER: Sunni  
Islam 
 [or  
Muslim 
s] 
019-13-87-14110 
11. A central tenet of this leader’s Year Zero philosophy was to turn \"New People\" into \"Old People.\" S-21 
was a site where his Santebal organization executed opponents via mass burial. Sites where his forces 
worked were known as the Killing Fields. This Chinese ally was deposed by a 1979 invasion from 
neighboring Vietnam. For the point, name this leader of the Khmer Rouge and communist dictator of 
Cambodia. 
ANSWER:  
Pol Pot 
 [or Saloth  
Sar 
; or  
Brother number one 
] 
153-13-87-14111 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  2 of 15 
12. During this election, a New York elector tried to vote for the same person twice. Virginia implemented 
winner-take-all selection of electors before this election, the first that needed to be decided by the House of 
Representatives. All the Democratic-Republican electors voted for the same people in this year, causing a 
tie between the eventual winner and Aaron Burr that led to the Twelfth Amendment. For the point, name 
this election in which Thomas Jefferson defeated John Adams. 
ANSWER: United States Presidential election of  
1800 
187-13-87-14112 
13. The Rock Springs Riot in Wyoming was perpetrated against this group of people. The Burlingame 
Treaty contained provisions for the equal treatment of these people. The Magnuson Act repealed an 1882 
law signed by Chester A. Arthur that prohibited immigration of these people for ten years. For the point, 
identify this class of people that did manual labor on the West Coast, such as helping build the first 
Transcontinental Railroad, and were immigrants from an Asian country. 
ANSWER:  
Chinese 
-American immigrants [or  
Chinese miner 
s until \"Burlingame Treaty\" is read] 
066-13-87-14113 
14. John F. Kennedy appointed a holder of this office to the Supreme Court, becoming the last President to 
nominate one of his own Cabinet members as a justice. During the first Clinton administration, this office 
was held by  
Beyond Outrage 
 author Robert Reich. This office was the first Cabinet post held by a woman, 
when FDR appointed Frances Perkins in 1933. For the point, identify this office which oversees workplace 
regulations and union politics. 
ANSWER: Secretary of  
Labor 
019-13-87-14114 
15. Many speculate that this man's most significant accomplishment was motivated by remorse for his 
ancestor Nebros's massacre of Kirrha in the First Sacred War. This man taught under a plane tree in the 
town of Kos. This man was the first to posit that black bile, yellow bile, phlegm, and blood were the four 
humors. He came up with a speech whose reciters were symbolically witnessed by Asclepius and Apollo. 
For the point, name this Greek father of medicine who wrote an oath taken by new doctors. 
ANSWER:  
Hippocrates 
 of Kos 
020-13-87-14115 
16. This onetime director of the Sierra Club helped spark the conservation movement with his collection  
This American Earth. 
 This man expounded his \"zone system\" in the book  
The Negative, 
 and he 
documented life in a Japanese internment camp in his  
Born Free and Equal. 
 This authro of  
Making a 
Photograph 
 was one of the founders of Group f.64. For the point, name this photographer of  
Moonrise, 
Hernandez, New Mexico 
 known for his pictures of national parks. 
ANSWER: Ansel  
Adams 
030-13-87-14116 
17. Bach's  
St. John Passion 
 has aroused controversy because it supposedly has this characteristic. An essay 
steeped in this characteristic followed its author's work  
Opera and Drama, 
 and personally attacked Felix 
Mendelssohn and Giacomo Meyerbeer. Franz Liszt and Friedrich Nietzsche distanced themselves from a 
common friend who had this characteristic, the composer of  
Parsifal 
 and the Ring Cycle. For the point, 
name this characteristic that made Richard Wagner Hitler's favorite composer. 
ANSWER:  
anti-Semitism 
 [or word forms; or  
anti-Jew 
ishness; or descriptive answers suggesting that 
Wagner  
hated Jew 
s] 
020-13-87-14117 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  3 of 15 
18. One person with this title lost use of his right arm during a press conference, because of an 
assassination attempt using a bomb hidden in a tape recorder. Another person who later received this title 
spent four months in Neauphle-le-Chateau before ending a fourteen-year exile. That man with this title 
came to power in a 1979 revolution that took dozens of American hostages. For the point, name this title 
that has been held in Iran by both Ali Khamenei and Ruhollah Khomeini. 
ANSWER: grand  
ayatollah 
s [or  
Supreme Leader 
s of Iran; or  
rahbar 
s] 
023-13-87-14118 
19. This country's capital is connected to Malmo by the Oresund Bridge. Its monarchs are buried in the 
cathedral of Roskilde. This country fought the Torstenson War over its practice of charging the Sound Dues 
to ships passing near its coast, and it lost the provinces of Schleswig and Holstein to Germany in the 
Convention of Gastein. Its capital is split between the islands Amager and Zealand, but most of its land is 
on the Jutland Peninsula. For the point, name this Scandinavian country. 
ANSWER:  
Denmark 
 [or  
Danmark 
] 
121-13-87-14119 
20. One song about this person says \"She sees the truth behind the lies.\" This subject of the Magnetic Fields 
song \"My Only Friend\" and U2's \"Angel of Harlem\" was played by Diana Ross in the 1972 biopic  
Lady 
Sings the Blues. 
 She performed a signature song about \"blood on the leaves and blood on the root.\" For the 
point, name this popularizer of the anti-lynching standard \"Strange Fruit,\" who was called \"the greatest 
singer of the century\" for her definitive jazz-influenced pop performances. 
ANSWER: Billie  
Holiday 
 [or Eleanora  
Fagan 
] 
019-13-87-14120 
21. These items were the subject of the \"de-MIRVing\" process mandated in the START II treaty. 
Previously, efforts to regulate these items via SALT II failed when one party to the treaty invaded 
Afghanistan, leaving the ABM as the most long-lasting treaty regulating these items. The use of these items 
was the subject of the \"Mutual Assured Destruction\" theory. For the point, name these items regulated by 
many U.S.-Soviet treaties, including the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. 
ANSWER:  
nuclear weapon 
s [or  
nuclear bomb 
s; or  
atomic bomb 
s; or  
hydrogen bomb 
s; or  
nuke 
s; or  
ICBM 
s; or intercontinental ballistic  
missile 
s; prompt on  
bomb 
s; prompt on  
weapon 
s] 
019-13-87-14121 
22. This man once ran for New York mayor against economist Henry George, though both lost to Democrat 
Henry Hewitt. This President ordered the Great White Fleet to circumnavigate the world. For his role in 
effecting the Treaty of Portsmouth, he became the first American President to win the Nobel Peace Prize. 
This President, who later ran for the Bull Moose party, gained renown after the Battle of San Juan Hill. For 
the point, name this Republican President who led the Rough Riders. 
ANSWER:  heodore  
T Roosevelt 
 [or  eddy  
T Roosevelt 
; oprompt on  
Roosevelt 
] 
153-13-87-14122 
23. These people filled nine sacks with right ears after defeating Henry the Pious at the Battle of Legnica. 
Two days later, these people won the Battle of Mohi over Hungary. Their defeat at the Klis Fortress in 
Croatia marked their furthest advance into Europe, after which this group, led by Batu, retreated in order to 
participate in succession of Ogadai at Karakorum. For the point, name this cavalry-based steppe people 
which swept across Eurasia in the thirteenth century. 
ANSWER:  
Mongol 
s [or the  
Golden Horde 
; or  
Tartar 
s; or  
Tatar 
s] 
019-13-87-14123 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  4 of 15 
24. During this war, the \"Strafexpedition\" targeted Italy, whose military was led by the harsh and 
incompetent Luigi Cadorna. The twelve Battles of the Isonzo took place in Italy during this war, including 
the disastrous Battle of Caporetto. Following this war, Italy sent Vittorio Orlando to negotiate peace. For 
the point, identify this war in which Italy abandoned the Central Powers to fight on the side of the Allies 
before Orlando represented the country at the Treaty of Versailles. 
ANSWER:  
World War I 
 [or the  
First World War 
; or the  
Great War 
] 
019-13-87-14124 
25. A major molybdenum mine in this state was located at Climax. An 1894 strike at Cripple Creek in this 
state required the National Guard to be called to protect miners from anti-union violence. A group of 
unarmed Cheyenne, who reported to Fort Lyon to establish a truce, were massacred at Sand Creek in this 
state. This present-day state was the site of a massive gold rush that occurred at Pike's Peak. For the point, 
identify this state where that gold rush led to the founding of Boulder and Denver. 
ANSWER:  
Colorado 
066-13-87-14125 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  5 of 15 
2nd Third 
26. In this country, Romeo Dallaire led a military force that created Zone Turquoise. Bill Clinton regretted 
not sending soldiers to this country, which signed the Arusha Accords. Its president Juvenal Habyarimana 
(hob-YAR-ee-MAH-nuh) was assassinated when his plane was shot down. Paul Kagame (kuh-GAY-may) 
leads this country, where the \"interahamwe\" (in-ter-uh-HOM-way), Hutu militias, carried out mass killings 
of Tutsi people. For the point, name this country that experienced a 1994 genocide. 
ANSWER:  
Rwanda 
232-13-87-14126 
27. A former governor of this state, Wally Hickel, became Nixon's Secretary of the Interior. This state is 
divided into boroughs instead of counties. In 1964, one of the most powerful earthquakes ever recorded 
destroyed much of the coastline of this state on Good Friday. This state's Prince William Sound was the site 
of a huge oil spill that occurred after the Bligh Reef grounded the  
Exxon Valdez. 
 For the point, identify this 
state whose Aleutian Islands were fought over during World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Alaska 
066-13-87-14127 
28. The Greek-born Constantine Phaulkon advised the king Narai in this country, which was once ruled by 
the Chakri Kingdom. This country was modernized by a king who correctly predicted a solar eclipse and 
gifted elephants to James Buchanan. That king, Mongkut, invited the English governess Anna Leonowens 
to his court. For the point, name this only Southeast Asian country to remain independent during the 
colonial period, which has been ruled by multiple Ramas and was formerly known as Siam. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Thailand 
 [or  
Siam 
 until it is read; or Ratcha Anachak  
Thai 
; or Prathet  
Thai 
] 
020-13-87-14128 
29. This man represented a group of Catholics at the Congress of Rastatt, and he joined the Imperial court 
after marrying into the Kaunitz family. Franz Anton Kolowrat eventually outmaneuvered this man for 
domestic power. The peace which lasted from the fall of Napoleon to the outbreak of the Crimean War is 
known as his \"age.\" For the point, name this Austrian foreign minister who engineered the \"concert of 
Europe\" and pushed conservative principles at the Congress of Vienna. 
ANSWER: Klemens, prince von  
Metternich 
 [or Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar, Fürst Von  
Metternich 
-Winneburg-Beilstein] 
019-13-87-14129 
30. While working with Alexis Carrel, this man developed an artificial heart. Bruno Hauptmann was 
convicted and executed for the kidnapping and murder of this man’s twenty-month old infant. This man 
promoted an anti-war stance by joining America First. To obtain the Orteig Prize, this man used a modified 
Ryan M-2 called  
The Spirit of St. Louis. 
 For the point, name this aviator, who flew from New York to Paris 
in the first solo nonstop crossing of the Atlantic. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Lindbergh 
140-13-87-14130 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  6 of 15 
31. This essay declares that a country \"is on the eve of a bourgeois revolution\" and predicts that a world 
revolution will soon follow. Another section of this essay declares that \"a spectre is haunting Europe,\" and 
it also says that \"the history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.\" Near its end, 
this essay says \"workers of the world, unite!\" For the point, name this document that Friedrich Engels 
co-wrote with Karl Marx. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Communist Manifesto 
\" [or \" 
Das  Kommunistische Manifest 
\"] 
186-13-87-14131 
32. This President abandoned a plan for a 600-ship navy due to budgetary concerns, and was criticized 
when his Secretary of the Interior prohibited the Beach Boys from playing on the National Mall. He 
ordered Operation El Dorado Canyon, a series of airstrikes against Libya, as well as Operation Urgent 
Fury, the invasion of Grenada. This president called on Gorbachev to tear down the Berlin Wall. For the 
point, name this Republican who was president for most of the 1980s. 
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson  
Reagan 
153-13-87-14132 
33. Bull leaping was a common motif in the art of this place. This island was the location of an excavation 
led by Sir Arthur Evans that discovered a palace complex that included the gypsum chair. The 
undeciphered language of Linear A was used by a civilization on this island, whose capital of Knossos was 
destroyed by a massive 1720 BCE earthquake. For the point, name this Mediterannean island that was the 
location of the Minoan civilization. 
ANSWER:  
Crete 
030-13-87-14133 
34. He's not Jacques-Louis David, but this man depicted Charlotte Corday walking away naked in his 
version of  
The Death of Marat. 
 During his Berlin period, he painted a portrait of the future Foreign 
Minister Walter Rathenau, who patronized him. He was a leading painter of the Expressionist movement, 
exemplified by a painting he made of a volcanic eruption and a man holding his head. For the point, name 
this Norwegian artist of  
The Scream. 
ANSWER: Edvard  
Munch 
186-13-87-14134 
35. Under the pretense of selling relief supplies, this man sent planes full of diamond-mining equipment to 
Charles Taylor's Liberia. This man finished in second place at the Iowa caucus in his bid for the Republican 
Presidential nomination in 1988. This founder of Operation Blessing and Regent University hosts a show 
named for the group of ten-dollar contributors who originally funded it,  
The 700 Club. 
 For the point, name 
this televangelist who chairs the Christian Broadcasting Network. 
ANSWER: Marion Gordon \"Pat\"  
Robertson 
020-13-87-14135 
36. Nearly 750 people died in this city during a 1995 heat wave. \"The whole world is watching\" was 
chanted by protesters in this city as police responded violently to antiwar protests at the 1968 Democratic 
National Convention. Members of the Daley family have served as its mayor for a total of over forty years. 
For the point, identify this city where the deadliest aviation accident in US history occurred at O'Hare 
International Airport, the seat of Cook County and largest city of Illinois. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
066-13-87-14136 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  7 of 15 
37. This country developed its feudal system and patronized monasteries during the \"Davidian Revolution.\" 
The Picts settled in what became this country. France formed the Auld Alliance with this country, that was 
defeated by the English at the battle of Flodden Field. This country regained its independence after the 
Battle of Bannockburn and defeated an English army at the Battle of Stirling Bridge. For the point, name 
this home country of Robert the Bruce and King Macbeth. 
ANSWER:  
Scotland 
185-13-87-14137 
38. These people had regents called \"rensho\" and \"shikken.\" These people, who occupied \"tent offices,\" 
appointed the \"shugo\" and were served by \"kanrei.\" Their government was known as the \"bakufu,\" and the 
first ruler with this title began the Kamakura period. These people were served by regional lords called 
\"daimyo\" and usually held real political power in place of the Emperor. For the point, identify these 
military rulers of Japan. 
ANSWER:  
shogun 
232-13-87-14138 
39. Under this empire, the abbreviation \"K-U-K,\" standing for \"Imperial and Royal,\" was used. This empire 
was formed after the Ausgleich (OWS-glike), or Great Compromise, engineered by Ferenc Deak 
(DAY-ock). Other than a brief term of Charles I before its dissolution, this empire's only ruler was Franz 
Josef I. For the point, identify this \"Dual Monarchy\" which existed from 1848 to the outbreak of World 
War I and unified what are now two Central European countries. 
ANSWER:  
Austria-Hungary 
 [or the  
Austro-Hungarian 
 Empire] 
019-13-87-14139 
40. This man said, \"Twenty million people are starving. Whatever their politics, they must be fed!\" to 
explain why he sent food relief to Bolshevik-controlled areas in the Russian Civil War. This translator of  
De Re Metallica 
 spoke Mandarin Chinese with his wife. Despite his public works projects such as 
damming the Colorado River, the unemployed were unhappy and named shantytowns after him. For the 
point, name this Republican who was President at the start of the Great Depression. 
ANSWER: Herbert Clark  
Hoover 
153-13-87-14140 
41. Franz Jalics defended this man from charges of initiating a kidnapping. That criticism involves this 
man's conduct during the Dirty War, although he claims to have interceded with Jorge (HOR-hay) Videla to 
save lives. In July 2013, this resident of the Domus Sanctae Marthae guesthouse asked \"who am I to judge 
them?\" while describing gay Christians. This Argentine-born man succeeded Benedict XVI. For the point, 
name this current Pope. 
ANSWER:  
Francis 
 [or Jorge Mario  
Bergoglio 
] 
052-13-87-14141 
42. A forged \"plate of brass\" marks the location where this man supposedly disembarked and declared 
\"New Albion.\" This man ordered the execution of his co-commander Thomas Doughty, and led a raid into 
Cadiz which is said to have singed the king of Spain's beard. He brought the  
Golden Hind 
 back to 
Plymouth to complete the second circumnavigation of the world. For the point, name this English sea 
captain, the vice-admiral of the English fleet in charge of defeating the Spanish Armada. 
ANSWER: Sir Francis  
Drake 
020-13-87-14142 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  8 of 15 
43. This man joined the militia group \"The Corsicans\" while attending King’s College, now Columbia 
University. This native of Nevis was forced to resign his highest office after the discovery of his 
extramarital affair with Maria Reynolds in Philadelphia. This man died after being shot at Weehawken in a 
duel with the sitting Vice-President, Aaron Burr. For the point, name this first Secretary of the Treasury 
under George Washington, whose face adorns the ten-dollar bill. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Hamilton 
239-13-87-14143 
44. This group was founded in response to an article by William English Walling, regarding a 1908 
incident in Springfield, Illinois. One of its founders, Mary White Ovington, wrote a history of this group 
entitled  
The Walls Came Tumbling Down. 
 Many founders of this group were previously involved in the 
Niagara Movement, and it awards the Spingarn Medal. For the point, name this civil rights organization 
whose newspaper is  
The Crisis 
 and whose founders included W.E.B. Du Bois. 
ANSWER:  
NAACP 
 [or  
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
] 
030-13-87-14144 
45. John Pitcairn Jr., founder of the PPG company, was an outspoken opponent of this practice. Lady Mary 
Montagu brought this practice from the Ottoman Empire to England. Andrew Wakefield authored a 
fraudulent research paper linking this practice to autism. Edward Jenner used a milkmaid to develop one of 
the earliest forms of this practice. For the point, Jonas Salk devised the anti-polio version of what medical 
practice, which uses a weak version of a pathogen to build immunity? 
ANSWER:  
vaccination 
 [or  
inoculation 
; or  
immunization 
; or word forms] 
020-13-87-14145 
46. In 1966, an attempt to do this to  
Fanny Hill 
 was stopped in the case of  
Memoirs v. Massachusetts. 
 This 
action was effectively ended in Britain by the 1960  
Lady Chatterley's Lover 
 case. Three decades earlier, an 
American attempt to do this was halted in  
United States v. One Book Called Ulysses. 
 This action often 
triggered court rulings on what constituted \"obscenity.\" For the point, identify this action, now held to 
violate the First Amendment's protection of free speech. 
ANSWER: literary  
censor 
ship [or  
ban 
ning  
book 
s or other equivalents] 
019-13-87-14146 
47. Embankments in this city were built by Joseph Bazalgette as part of its sewage system. The Swiss Re 
Building is a skyscraper in this city nicknamed \"the Gherkin.\" \"Beefeaters\" are wardens at another site in 
this city, where, according to superstition, ravens prevent the country from falling. A domed cathedral in 
this city, built after a devastating fire in 1666, was designed by Christopher Wren. For the point, name this 
location of St. Paul's and a \"tower\" where British prisoners were kept. 
ANSWER:  
London 
121-13-87-14147 
48. This man organized the International Mercantile Marine company, which included the White Star Line. 
The Supreme Court ruled that a company this man organized did not violate the Sherman Antitrust Act in a 
1920 decision. Action by this man helped avert a financial collapse during the Panic of 1907. For the point, 
name this American financier who organized U.S. Steel and General Electric and is the namesake of a 
financial institution that merged with Chase Manhattan. 
ANSWER: John Pierpont  
Morgan 
030-13-87-14148 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  9 of 15 
49. Elaine Pagels’s first three books studied this religious group, which stored documents in the Nag 
Hammadi library in Egypt. These people recognized a divine being called Abraxas, and thought that an evil 
demiurge created the material world rather than God. The name for these believers comes from the Greek 
word for \"hidden knowledge.\" For the point, name these splinter groups of early Christianity who wrote the 
Gospel of Judas and other non-Biblical gospels. 
ANSWER:  
Gnostic 
 Christians [or  
Gnostic 
ism] 
104-13-87-14149 
50. Andrew Oliver was hanged in effigy from the Liberty Tree in opposition to this legislation. This 
legislation's namesake \"Congress\" issued a \"Declaration of Rights and Grievances.\" Imposed in order to 
pay for British soldiers in America during the Seven Years' War, it was passed the year after the Sugar Act 
and led to the passage of the Declaratory Act. For the point, name this 1765 legislation that imposed a tax 
from the British crown on certain paper goods. 
ANSWER:  
Stamp 
 Act 
192-13-87-14150 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  10 of 15 
3rd Third 
51. An army encounters the Stone Sentinel Maze in this novel. A battle in this novel involved a fleet of 
chained boats being burned; that battle was fought at Red Cliffs. This novel begins with three men 
swearing brotherhood in a Peach Orchard before going off to fight the Yellow Turbans. The core of this 
novel’s plot deals with a period after the collapse of the Han dynasty. For the point, name this Chinese 
novel about a civil war fought among the states of Wu, Shu, and Wei. 
ANSWER:  
The  Romance of the Three Kingdoms 
 [or  
Sanguo yanyi 
] 
153-13-87-14151 
52. In 1960, Ralph Boston broke this man's record in the long jump, which this man claimed to have gained 
with the aid of Luz Long. He gained the nickname \"Buckeye Bullet\" while running at Ohio State. This 
athlete won the 100 meters and 200 meters en route to four gold medals at the 1936 Summer Olympics. For 
the point, name this African-American track and field star whose victories upended Hitler's claims of racial 
superiority at the Berlin Olympics. 
ANSWER: James Cleveland \"Jesse\"  
Owens 
192-13-87-14152 
53. Two of this empire's rulers from the Hanan Dynasty who expanded into Chimú territory were Pachacuti 
and Topa. The general Quizquiz (KEEZ-keez) fought in this empire for one of the sons of Huayna 
(WHY-nuh) Capac. The victor over Huascar (WASS-car) for this empire's throne filled a room with gold 
and threw a Bible to the ground before being executed by Francisco Pizarro. For the point, name this 
empire ruled by Atahualpa (ah-tuh-WAL-puh) until the Spanish conquest of what is now Peru. 
ANSWER:  
Inca 
n Empire 
019-13-87-14153 
54. This ruler annexed the territory of Mauretania by inviting its leader, Ptolemy, to his capital and 
promptly executing him. This ruler succeeded a man who moved to the island of Capri and appointed 
Sejanus to govern. He demanded that he be worshiped as \"Neos Helios,\" or the New Sun. During a 
campaign to take Britannia, he allegedly ordered soldiers to take sea shells as spoils, and he attempted to 
name his horse consul. For the point, name this \"mad\" third Roman Emperor. 
ANSWER:  
Caligula 
 [or  
Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus 
; prompt on partial answer] 
230-13-87-14154 
55. This organization was led by a Grand Sachem, one of whom was Isaac Fowler. Al Smith was a member 
of this organization, and its power rose through patronage of Irish immigrants. Its prominence sharply 
declined after the election of Fiorello la Guardia as mayor. A powerful leader of this organization was 
prosecuted by Samuel Tilden and satirized in cartoons by Thomas Nast. For the point, name this political 
machine in New York, which was once led by \"Boss\" Tweed. 
ANSWER:  
Tammany Hall 
 [or Society of St.  
Tammany 
; or Sons of St.  
Tammany 
; or  
Tammany 
 Society; 
or  
Columbian Order 
] 
140-13-87-14155 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  11 of 15 
56. Friedrich Jahn attempted to achieve this goal by training supporters in gymnastics. People seeking this 
goal were targeted by the repressive Carlsbad Decrees after supporter Karl Sand assassinated Ludwig von 
Kotzebue. An economic precursor to this goal was the customs union known as the Zollverein. This goal 
was achieved in 1871 with the crowning of Wilhelm I as emperor. For the point, identify this 
nineteenth-century cause by which Prussia grew to incorporate several other principalities. 
ANSWER:  
German unification 
 [or the  
creation of Germany 
 or other equivalents] 
019-13-87-14156 
57. This vehicle's mission was to launch TDRS-B and release Spartan Halley. Shortly after leaving Max-Q, 
this vessel's commander, Dick Scobee, was told \"go with throttle up,\" after which a joint rotation event 
prevented frozen O-rings from containing hot exhaust gas. The Rogers Commission report on this vessel's 
fate explained that crew members such as teacher Christa McAuliffe lost consciousness almost 
immediately. For the point, name this space shuttle which broke up shortly after launch in 1986. 
ANSWER:  
Challenger 
019-13-87-14157 
58. This ruler executed his son Aleksei for conspiring with emperor Charles VI. This monarch built a navy 
after working undercover with a shipbuilder in Zaandam. He secured ice-free ports on the Baltic after 
winning the Battle of Poltava, which ended the Great Northern War he fought against Sweden. He 
personally shaved beards off the boyars after returning from Western Europe. For the point, name this 
Russian tsar whose westernizing efforts can be seen in a namesake city on the Gulf of Finland. 
ANSWER:  
Peter the Great 
 [or  
Peter I 
 of Russia; prompt on  
Peter 
] 
080-13-87-14158 
59. This man’s niece Harriet Lane was known as \"The Democratic Queen\" during his time as minister to 
England. The  
Star of the West 
 was fired upon late in this man's term in office. He earned the nickname 
\"Ten-Cent Jimmy\" for his statement that ten cents a day was adequate for most men. He endorsed the 
Lecompton Constitution and previously helped draft the Ostend Manifesto. For the point, name this 
President under whom secession began following the election of Abraham Lincoln. 
ANSWER: James  
Buchanan 
030-13-87-14159 
60. In the fourteenth century, this office was passed back and forth between the Luxembourg and 
Wittelsbach dynasties. The Golden Bull of 1356 set the procedure for filling this office, naming the Count 
Palatine, the Margrave of Brandenburg, and the Archbishop of Trier among seven electors. This office was 
dominated by the Hapsburgs during the rise of Protestantism, which weakened this office. For the point, 
name this office which controlled German-speaking Europe in the Middle Ages. 
ANSWER:  
Holy Roman Emperor 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
019-13-87-14160 
61. A dark block of green jade covers this man's grave in his Gur-e-Amir mausoleum, which was expanded 
by his grandson Ulugh Beg. In a battle, this man ordered camels carrying burning hay to be prodded in the 
direction of enemy war elephants. A campaign he fought against Tokhtamysh ended the Golden Horde, 
after which this man set his sights on Delhi. This skull-pyramid enthusiast ruled from Samarkand. For the 
point, name this Central Asian conqueror who was nicknamed for his disability. 
ANSWER:  
Tamerlane 
 [or Emir  
Timur 
; or  
Tarmashirin 
 Khan; or  
Timur 
 Leng; or  
Timur 
 the Lame] 
020-13-87-14161 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  12 of 15 
62. Some participants of the Stonewall riots had recently returned from a memorial service for this woman. 
Her daughter, who played Sally Bowles in the 1972 film  
Cabaret, 
 is Liza Minelli. She starred in several 
movies with Andy Rooney. In a 1939 film, her co-stars sang \"If I Were King of the Forest\" and \"If I Only 
Had a Heart,\" and she sang \"Somewhere Over the Rainbow.\" For the point, name this actress who played 
Dorothy in  
The Wizard of Oz. 
ANSWER: Judy  
Garland 
 [or Frances  
Gumm 
] 
121-13-87-14162 
63. This ruler defeated Sushim to win a war of succession, and a turning point in his reign came when he 
saw the Daya River following a battle. He explained his beliefs in many Rock Edicts and built several 
stupas and lion-topped pillars. This ruler’s children Mahinda and Sanghamitra (SAHN-gah-MEET-ruh) 
were missionaries to Sri Lanka. For the point, name this Mauryan emperor who, after seeing the carnage in 
his conquest of Kalinga, converted to Buddhism. 
ANSWER:  
Ashoka 
 [or  
Asoka 
] 
224-13-87-14163 
64. One of these objects, with the head of a gold-sheet bull with a lapis lazuli beard, is a major artwork 
from Mesopotamia. A monkey plays this instrument in a fresco from Thera. Larger versions of this 
instrument include the barbiton and kithara. Many of these objects were made from turtle shells, because, 
according to mythology, Hermes crafted one out of a turtle's shell and gave it to Apollo as penance for 
stealing cattle. For the point, name this string instrument from Ancient Greece. 
ANSWER:  
lyre 
020-13-87-14164 
65. An event known by this name was re-investigated by the Saville Inquiry. Another event known by this 
name started as a workers' procession organized by Georgy Gapon, before the crowd was fired upon by 
Nicholas II's army guards in 1905. An event known by this name occurred during a civil rights 
demonstration through the streets of Londonderry in Northern Ireland, when the British army shot 
demonstrators. For the point, name these events in which people were injured on the first day of the week. 
ANSWER:  
Bloody Sunday 
066-13-87-14165 
66. This colony’s first governor was John Carver. Settlers of this colony established fur-trading posts at the 
mouths of the Kennebec and Penobscot Rivers. This colony maintained peaceful relations with the 
Wampanoag chief Massasoit (MAH-suh-SOY-it). About a third of its original settlers had passed through 
the Dutch city of Leiden; those men included William Bradford and Myles Standish. For the point, name 
this colony that was founded in modern-day Massachusetts by the Pilgrims. 
ANSWER:  
Plymouth 
 Colony [or New  
Plymouth 
] 
185-13-87-14166 
67. The mutiny of the slave ship  
Meermin 
 occurred off the coast of this city. This city's Boulders Beach has 
been home to a colony of African penguins since 1982. Devil's Peak and Lion's Head rise on either side of 
this city's Table Mountain. Off the coast of this city is Robben Island, where Nelson Mandela was long 
imprisoned. For the point, identify this South African city whose name comes from its location near the 
south tip of the continent. 
ANSWER:  
Cape Town 
, South Africa 
192-13-87-14167 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  13 of 15 
68. This man sang \"I'm heading for the last roundup\" while he used a fake gun made of wood to escape 
from Crown Point. He learned his most notorious skill during ten years in Indiana jails following his 
participation in the robbery of a grocer in his boyhood home of Mooresville. Anna Sage was the \"lady in 
red\" who led him into an FBI trap at the Biograph Theater. For the point, name this \"public enemy number 
one,\" a prolific bank robber who was killed in 1934. 
ANSWER: John Herbert  
Dillinger 
019-13-87-14168 
69. The British ship  
Kowshing 
 was sunk during this war, which began after Kim Ok-kyun's quartered body 
was returned by Yuan Shikai. This war was pushed after the Bean Controversy showed one side's 
dependence on maintaining influence in Korea. The Pescadores, Taiwan, and the Liadong Peninsula were 
ceded by the losers of this war in the Treaty of Shimonoseki. For the point, identify this 1894 to 1895 war 
in which China fought in Manchuria against another Asian power. 
ANSWER: First  
Sino-Japanese 
 War 
019-13-87-14169 
70. Phases A through D of the Hallstatt culture mark a transition to this material's use. It was used by the 
Guptas to create a famous pillar in Delhi. Migrating Celts helped spread the use of this material through 
Europe. The Hittites built their empire on the strength of this material, often produced with the help of a 
blast furnace. For the point, identify this metal that names the third of the three common archaeological 
ages, which supplanted the earlier Bronze and Stone Ages. 
ANSWER:  
iron 
080-13-87-14170 
71. An attempt to block Stephen Langton from assuming this office led to an interdict being placed on 
England. Reginald Pole replaced Thomas Cranmer in this office when \"Bloody\" Mary took the throne. This 
office was established by the later St. Augustine, who converted Ethelbert of Kent. Thomas a Becket held 
this office when he was murdered. For the point, identify this position, the former head of the Roman 
Catholic Church in England and now the leading ecclesiastical office in Anglicanism. 
ANSWER:  
Archbishop of Canterbury 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
019-13-87-14171 
72. One story by this man describes John T. Unger’s trip to Percy Washington's home \"in the West.\" 
Another of his characters marries Hildegarde Moncrief at the age of fifty but later separates after he grows 
younger. This author of \"A Diamond as Big as the Ritz\" and \"The Curious Case of Benjamim Button\" was 
named for his distant cousin, who wrote \"The Star-Spangled Banner.\" For the point, name this author of a 
novel narrated by Nick Carroway,  
The Great Gatsby. 
ANSWER: Francis Scott Key  
Fitzgerald 
030-13-87-14172 
73. Opponents of this movement pointed to the \"acheiropoieta\" (ack-eer-oh-poy-EY-tuh) as evidence for 
divine backing. This practice started with an attempt to remove an object from the Chalke Gate, and was 
escalated by the Council of Hieria. This belief was condemned at the Second Council of Nicaea 
(nye-SEE-uh), convened by Empress Irene. It began in the eighth century under Leo the Isaurian. For the 
point, name this movement in the Byzantine Empire against the veneration of religious art. 
ANSWER:  
iconoclasm 
 [or  
iconoclast 
ic movement/controversy] 
019-13-87-14173 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  14 of 15 
74. Soldiers in this war cried \"remember the Raisin!\" after a massacre at the Battle of Frenchtown. Gordon 
Drummond and Phineas Riall were wounded at this war's bloodiest battle, which was fought near Niagara 
Falls. In this war, one side's capital was burned at the Battle of Bladensburg. John Quincy Adams helped 
draft the treaty which ended this war. For the point, name this war between the Americans and British, 
named after the year in which it began. 
ANSWER: War of  
1812 
192-13-87-14174 
75. A charred corpse was all that remained of one employee of this organization, who \"cried in rage\" on 
radio broadcasts picked up by U.S. intelligence in Turkey. The death of Sergei Korolyov signaled the 
decline of this organization, whose successes included the first ICBM and the dog Laika on the Soyuz and 
Vostok programs. For the point, Valentina Tereshkova and Yuri Gagarin were cosmonauts in what 
program, which launched Sputnik in 1957? 
ANSWER:  
Soviet space 
 program [prompt on  
Russian space 
 program] 
020-13-87-14175 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set C     Bee Round 4     Page  15 of 15 
