2013 NHB Set A 
Bee Round 1 
BEE ROUND 1 
1. Jacques-Benigne Bossuet (BUH-sway) was the foremost French exponent of this doctrine. Robert 
Filmer's defense of this idea was demolished by the argument that Adam only has one \"true heir\" in John 
Locke's first Treatises of Government. The Stuart Dynasty's belief in this idea provoked Parliamentary 
resistance in the English Civil War and Glorious Revolution. For the point, name this philosophy which 
held that a monarch received his authority to rule from God. 
ANSWER:  
divine right 
 of kings [prompt on monarchical  
absolutism 
] 
080-13-88-11101 
2. Though it's not Russia, this country's 1918 civil war between \"Reds\" and \"Whites\" ended with the 
takeover of Fort Ino. A set of 1975 accords signed in this country's capital brought a thaw in the Cold War. 
It fought in the Continuation War after another conflict in which this country established the Mannerheim 
Line. Nazis fought in this country's northern part in the Lapland War. For the point, name this Nordic 
country that fought the Soviets in the Winter War. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Finland 
 [or  
Suomi 
] 
192-13-88-11102 
3. A government created from one of these events provided work for the unemployed with the National 
Workshops. A series of these events forced the convocation of the Frankfurt Parliament. Lajos Kossuth led 
one of these events in Hungary. Metternich lost his job after one of these events, which coincided with the 
publishing of \"The Communist Manifesto.\" For the point, name this series of nationalist revolutions that 
took place in a single year of the nineteenth century. 
ANSWER: the Revolutions of  
1848 
 [prompt on  
revolutions 
; or  
French Revolutions 
 until \"Frankfurt\" is 
read] 
080-13-88-11103 
4. In a suite, this man is defeated by the boastful Hary Janos (YAHN-osh). This man was the dedicatee of a 
symphony whose finale takes themes from the same composer's  
The Creatures of Prometheus. 
 An 
orchestral piece that begins with four cellos and two violas commemorates this man's invasion of Russia 
and is the  
1812 Overture 
. Beethoven's third symphony was originally titled after this man, who was 
defeated at Waterloo. For the point, name this French military leader. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon 
 Bonaparte 
228-13-88-11104 
5. At age fifty-nine, this woman married the nineteen-year-old con artist Antonio Buchignani. Joan 
Crawford starred as this woman in  
The Gorgeous Hussy. 
 She married John Timberlake, who died in 1828, 
and earned the sympathy of a President whose own wife Rachel Donelson had died the same year. Floride 
Calhoun's snubbing of this woman led to the creation of the Kitchen Cabinet. For the point, name this 
woman at the center of the Petticoat Affair during the Jackson administration. 
ANSWER: Margaret \"Peggy\"  
Eaton 
 [or Margaret \"Peggy\"  
O'Neill 
] 
190-13-88-11105 
2013 NHB Set A     Bee Round 1     Page  1 of 6 
6. In 1985, this organization was targeted by Operation Wooden Leg. This group moved to Lebanon after 
the Cairo Agreement and eventually transferred its headquarters to Ramallah. This organization is 
dominated by the Fatah Party and does not include Hamas, and it recognizes Israel's right to exist as of the 
Oslo Accords. For the point, name this group, formerly led by Yasser Arafat, which fights for an 
independent state for a certain group of Arabs. 
ANSWER:  
PLO 
 [or  
Palestinian Liberation Organization 
; or  
Munazzamat at-Tahrir al-Filastinayya 
; 
do not accept \"Palestinian Liberation Front\"] 
191-13-88-11106 
7. This politician's speeches often denounced the Congressional trio of \"Martin, Barton, and Fish.\" He 
campaigned on the song \"Happy Days are Here Again,\" mocking his opponent's promise of a \"chicken in 
every pot.\" This man defeated Wendell Willkie in one of his elections, and he handed Thomas Dewey his 
first Presidential defeat. The 22nd Amendment was signed in response to his electoral success. For the 
point, name this president who won four elections. 
ANSWER:  ranklin Delano  
F Roosevelt 
 [or  
FDR 
; prompt on  
Roosevelt 
] 
190-13-88-11107 
8. A member of this denomination, Norman Morrison, set himself on fire in a 1965 protest at the Pentagon. 
This sect's beliefs are depicted in the painting  
The Peaceable Kingdom. 
 Levi Coffin, a member of this 
religion, assisted over three thousand slaves on the Underground Railroad. Richard Nixon was raised as a 
member of this faith, which was founded by George Fox. For the point, name this pacifist group that 
stresses the \"inward light\" and was instrumental in the history of Pennsylvania. 
ANSWER:  
Quakers 
 [or Society of  
Friends 
] 
030-13-88-11108 
9. In a political cartoon, this man is shown as a snake swallowing the Democratic donkey. A popular 
speaker on the Chautauqua circuit, he founded the newspaper  
The Commoner. 
 Because he could not 
support the U.S. entering World War I, he resigned as Woodrow Wilson’s Secretary of State. At a 
convention, this politician said mankind would not be crucified while defending free silver. For the point, 
name this populist Democrat who gave the \"Cross of Gold\" speech in 1896. 
ANSWER: William Jennings  
Bryan 
052-13-88-11109 
10. The Stairs of Mourning led down to this place. This place was first made architecturally viable when 
the surrounding marshlands and waste were drained by the Cloaca Maxima. The Tabularium and an arch 
erected by Septimius Severus are surviving structures in this place, home to an assembly area known as the 
Comitium. This area between the Capitoline and Palatine hills was home to many temples and government 
buildings. For the point, name this center of Roman public life. 
ANSWER: Roman  
Forum 
 [or  
Forum 
 Romanum; or  
Forum 
 Magnum; or  
Foro 
 Romano] 
020-13-88-11110 
11. This emperor was advised by Agapetos the Deacon and ordered the final closure of the Platonic 
Academy in Athens. This emperor and his wife were vilified in the  
Secret History 
 of Procopius, which 
recounted how his generals suppressed violent chariot fans at the Nika riots. This man sent Narses and 
Belisarius to reconquer North Africa and Italy for the East. For the point, name this sixth-century emperor 
who ruled the Byzantines at their largest territorial extent. 
ANSWER:  
Justinian 
 I [or Flavius Petrus Sabbatius  
Justinian 
us Augustus] 
104-13-88-11111 
2013 NHB Set A     Bee Round 1     Page  2 of 6 
12. This city's first female mayor, Patience Lanning, presided over its 1970s re-design spearheaded by I.M. 
Pei. Charlie Porter took a photograph in this city of a bloody infant in the hands of Chris Fields, a 
firefighter. An action in this city was inspired by the sieges of Ruby Ridge and Waco, and the perpetrator 
was caught by not having a license plate.  For the point, identify this state capital in which the Alfred P. 
Murrah building was bombed by Terry Nichols and Timothy McVeigh. 
ANSWER:  
Oklahoma City 
233-13-88-11112 
13. This actress played Mrs. Carmichael, a woman who continually annoyed banker Mr. Mooney. On 
another television show, she portrayed a housewife who once got drunk while filming a television 
commercial and gave birth to her son, \"Little Ricky.\" This woman played the title character on a show 
featuring Ethel and Fred Mertz. For the point, name this red-headed comedienne who starred with husband 
Desi Arnaz in a 1950s sitcom where she played Mrs. Ricardo. 
ANSWER: Lucille \"Lucy\"  
Ball 
052-13-88-11113 
14. This island's town of Himera was the landing site of Gylippus. A commander on this island waited 
twenty-seven days after a lunar eclipse to let his troops depart, allowing for their massacre in the interim. 
Nicias and Alcibiades (al-seh-BYE-uh-deez) led Athenian troops here during the Peloponnesian War. For 
the point, name this Mediterranean island targeted in a failed \"expedition\" to its colony of Syracuse. 
ANSWER:  
Sicily 
 [or  
Sicilia 
; or  
Sicilian Expedition 
] 
104-13-88-11114 
15. Participants in this event foreswore the \"queue\" hairstyle and were accordingly called \"Longhairs.\" This 
event was prompted by a dream by a failed scholar instructing him to eradicate Earth's demons. It was put 
down by Chinese Gordon's \"Ever Victorious Army,\" ending the \"Heavenly Kingdom\" proposed by Hong 
Xiuquan (shee-KWAN). For the point, name this Chinese rebellion that was contemporaneous with the 
U.S. Civil War and caused about twenty million deaths. 
ANSWER:  
Taiping 
 Rebellion 
190-13-88-11115 
16. This dynasty was weakened by the rising power of the Arnulfings following the Battle of Tertry. Pope 
Zachary deposed a member of this dynasty in 752, ending the reign of Childeric III and allowing the line 
that formerly held the post \"mayor of the palace\" to rise to the throne. This dynasty first became prominent 
under Clovis I and was supplanted by Charles Martel and Pepin the Short. For the point, name this dynasty 
that ruled in what is now France prior to the rise of the Carolingians. 
ANSWER:  
Merovingian 
 Dynasty 
019-13-88-11116 
17. In one scene of this novel, the central characters controversially put on the Elizabeth Inchbald play  
Lovers' Vows. 
 Edward Said condemned this novel for condoning imperialism, arguing that the central 
estate was supported by overseas slave labor in Antigua. The protagonist of this novel eventually marries 
Edmund Bertram, whose father Sir Thomas owns the title estate. For the point, name this novel about 
Fanny Price, written by Jane Austen. 
ANSWER:  
Mansfield Park 
014-13-88-11117 
2013 NHB Set A     Bee Round 1     Page  3 of 6 
18. This politician spoke against Jacques Delors's ideas of integration in a speech by shouting \"No, No, 
No!\" This leader was challenged by Michael Haseltine after supporting a poll tax. This prime minister 
gained public approval for a military action during which the  
HMS Conquerer 
 sunk the  
ARA General 
Belgrano; 
 that invasion sought to retake the Falkland Islands. For the point, name this Conservative British 
prime minister nicknamed \"the Iron Lady.\" 
ANSWER: Margaret  
Thatcher 
048-13-88-11118 
19. This man defeated Mark Green to hold his current office for the first time, and his last re-election was 
over Bill Thompson. The software company founded by this man provides a \"terminal\" service which gives 
financial data. This independent left the Republican Party in 2007 and has been a leading voice in favor of 
gun control. His prohibition on large sodas was struck down in July 2013. For the point, name this 
successor of Rudy Giuliani as mayor of New York City. 
ANSWER: Michael  
Bloomberg 
190-13-88-11119 
20. In a 1937 book, Talcott Parsons proclaims this author to be \"dead\" since nobody reads him. In a dissent 
in the  
Lochner 
 case, Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote that the Fourteenth Amendment did not enact this man's 
teachings. This author of  
Social Statics 
 predicted that at the end of human development, the \"perfect man in 
the perfect society\" would be created. For the point, name this English Social Darwinist who coined the 
term \"survival of the fittest.\" 
ANSWER: Herbert  
Spencer 
052-13-88-11120 
21. While working for this publication, artist Henri Huet depicted the wounded medic Thomas Cole. After 
being fired from  
Collier's Weekly, 
 artist Robert Capa joined this publication to cover World War II. Its first 
cover featured a photograph from frequent contributor Margaret Bourke-White, and it published the photo 
of a sailor embracing a nurse on VJ Day. For the point, name this magazine, the photojournalist counterpart 
to Henry Luce's  
Time 
 magazine. 
ANSWER:  
Life 
052-13-88-11121 
22. A photograph taken in this state shows Vivian Malone Jones attempting to register for classes. This 
state's governor made the \"stand in the schoolhouse door\" to fight integration at its flagship university and 
proclaimed the slogan \"segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever.\" This state was where 
four girls were killed in the 1963 bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church. For the point, name this 
Southern state governed by George Wallace. 
ANSWER:  
Alabama 
052-13-88-11122 
23. The Treaty of San Stefano allowed free passage of neutral vessels through these two bodies of water. 
They were allowed to be remilitarized by the 1936 Montreux (mon-TROO) Convention, replacing the ban 
on militarization in the Treaty of Lausanne. The Truman Doctrine was issued partially in response to the 
Soviet Union possibly gaining control of this shipping lane. For the point, name these two straits that 
connect the Aegean and Black Seas. 
ANSWER:  
Turkish Strait 
s [or  
Bosporus 
 and  
Dardanelles 
; or  
Bosphorus 
 and  
Dardenelles 
; or  
Bosporus 
and  
Hellespont 
; or  
Bosphorus 
 and  
Hellespont 
; do not accept or prompt on partial answer] 
121-13-88-11123 
2013 NHB Set A     Bee Round 1     Page  4 of 6 
24. The \"Marblehead\" Regiment, or 14th Continental, joined John Sullivan's division immediately after this 
event, in which Prince Whipple legendarily participated. This action was prompted by a victory at Iron 
Works Hill, which prevented Carl von Donop from reinforcing Johann Rall. Hessians were massacred at 
the Battle of Trenton due to this event, which was painted by Emmanuel Leutze. For the point, name this 
Christmas 1776 action taken by the Continental Army. 
ANSWER: George Washington's  
cross 
ing the  
Delaware 
 River [or obvious equivalents; prompt on Battle 
of  
Trenton 
 until it is read] 
190-13-88-11124 
25. The winner of this year's election was labeled \"by far not so dangerous a man\" as the person who came 
in second. It resulted in the addition of the Twelfth Amendment to the Constitution. This election ended in 
a tie in the Electoral College, which led to the Alexander Hamilton-led House electing the winner over 
Aaron Burr. For the point, name this Presidential election in which Vice-President Thomas Jefferson 
defeated President John Adams, ending Federalist control of the White House. 
ANSWER: United States Presidential election of  
1800 
052-13-88-11125 
26. This man created a world map in which Sri Lanka is the dramatically oversized island \"Taprobane.\" He 
compiled an early authoritative text on astrology called  
Tetrabiblos. 
 This author of the  
Geography 
 and the  
Almagest 
 created the geocentric model of the planets, in which everything orbited around the Earth. For the 
point, name this ancient scientist, a resident of Alexandria and namesake of the pre-Copernican conception 
of the solar system. 
ANSWER: Claudius  
Ptolemy 
 (TAHL-um-ee, but accept English pronunciations) 
052-13-88-11126 
27. The Shizoku was made up of former members of this class who received a pension during the Meiji 
period. Saigo Takamori led a revolt of these people in Satsuma. The code of this class of people called for 
them to commit suicide by slashing their bellies if they were dishonored. Masterless members of this class 
of people were called \"ronin,\" and these people used a wakizashi short sword and a katana long sword. For 
the point, name this warrior class of feudal Japan. 
ANSWER:  
samurai 
 [or  
bushi 
; or  
buke 
] 
186-13-88-11127 
28. Louis XII won a victory against this city at Agnadello. This city, that was opposed by the League of 
Cambrai, fought the Wars of Saint Sabbas and Chioggia (kee-OH-juh) with Genoa. This city's rulers 
ceremonially threw a ring into its waters to demonstrate its marriage to the sea. It controlled Cyprus and 
Crete as part of its trading empire. This city, known as the \"Most Serene Republic,\" was ruled by a doge. 
For the point, name this Italian city known for its canals. 
ANSWER:  
Venice 
 [or  
Venezia 
] 
232-13-88-11128 
29. Baseball Hall of Famer Tris Speaker cracked down on corruption during seven years as this city's 
boxing commissioner. A team from this city lost the 1997 World Series to the Marlins when Jose Mesa 
blew a save. This city's NFL team, which was once led by Earnest Byner and Bernie Kosar, briefly went 
defunct in the 1990s after Art Modell moved the franchise to Baltimore. For the point, name this city which 
reached the NBA Finals in 2007 behind Lebron James and is home to the Indians and Browns. 
ANSWER:  
Cleveland 
, Ohio 
019-13-88-11129 
2013 NHB Set A     Bee Round 1     Page  5 of 6 
30. This man entered into a successful firm with Matthew Boulton, which helped finance his experiments. 
One of his inventions, a copying machine, was widely used until the twentieth century. This man improved 
upon a device made by Newcomen that separated the condenser, allowing that device to be used for 
applications other than water pumping. For the point, name this engineer who developed an improved 
steam engine, and names the SI unit for power. 
ANSWER: James  
Watt 
140-13-88-11130 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set A     Bee Round 1     Page  6 of 6 
