1. George Chesney wrote a book where the Royal Navy is destroyed by "fatal engines" of this country. The Battle of Dorking was the first in the genre of "invasion literature" about this country attacking England. A poem describing the world before England went to war with this country describes "Never such innocence, Never before nor since." Another poem about a war with it denounces "the old Lie" and is by Wilfred Owen. For 10 points, name this country that England fought in World War I. ANSWER: Germany 
2. This song is credited to the 1619 author "John Bull." A variant of it has lyrics supporting Marshal Wade and urges the crushing of the rebellious Scots. This song's closing lyrics urge the listeners "to sing with heart and voice" while hoping the title person will "defend our laws." Its melody is used for the American song "My Country 'Tis of Thee." For 10 points, name this national anthem of Great Britain, whose title refers to the office of monarch. ANSWER: " God Save the Queen " [or " God Save the King "] 
3. A shortage that occurred near the beginning of this war was popularly known as the Shell Crisis. Von Moltke the Younger lost at the Battle of the Marne during this war. Later during this war, Winston Churchill received criticism for his handling of the Gallipoli Campaign. For 10 points, identify this war instigated by Franz Ferdinand's death in 1914. ANSWER: World War I [or Great War; or First World War] 
4. After the fall of this location, Seth Warner captured the nearby Fort Crown Point. During the recapture of this location, Simon Fraser led the British charge up Mount Hope. Before this fort was retaken by John Burgoyne from Arthur St. Clair during the Saratoga campaign, artillery from this fort was transported to Boston by Henry Knox. The Green Mountain Boys under Ethan Allen helped capture this fort. For 10 points, name this New York fort captured by Benedict Arnold. ANSWER: Fort Ticonderoga 
5. This man gave a speech comparing his rival to Yazid I and denouncing the White Revolution. He insisted on a counter invasion that extended his country's eight year war with Iraq. This man issued a fatwa against Salman Rushdie ten years after overthrowing Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. For 10 points, name this ayatollah who led the Islamic Revolution in Iran in 1979. ANSWER: Ruhollah Khomeini [or Ruhollah Musavi ] 
6. This meeting delegated much of its work to a splinter group led by "Dictator John" Rutledge, the Committee of Detail. John Dickinson argued against slavery at this event, which was held after the Mount Vernon and Annapolis Conferences. The Virginia and New Jersey plans were put forth at this event, leading to Roger Sherman's Connecticut Compromise. For 10 points, name this meeting of America's founding fathers at Philadelphia to create the document framing the U.S. government. ANSWER: Constitutional Convention [or Philadelphia Convention until "Philadelphia" is read] 
7. This event was perpetrated by the founder of the newspaper Agrani . In its aftermath, the RSS was temporarily banned from activity and suspicion was laid on the leader of Mahasabha, Vinayak Savarkar. The Kapur Commission investigated this incident, which led to the hanging of Narayan Apte. The words "Bapu is already late" were uttered outside the Birla House to this event's perpetrator, Nathuram Godse. For 10 points, name this event in which a leader of Indian nonviolence was killed. ANSWER: assassination of M ohandas Karamchand Gandhi [or or the assassination of M ahatma Gandhi ; prompt on assassination of Gandhi ] 
8. The Khodynka Tragedy occurred during this man's coronation. The October Manifesto was written during his time in power, which also saw the completion of the Trans-Siberian Railway. This man's son received help from the mystic Rasputin, who seemingly helped his hemophilia. For 10 points, name this last tsar of Russia who was executed with his family in 1918. ANSWER: Nicholas II of Russia [or Nikolay Aleksandrovich ; prompt on Nicholas ] 
9. This city is home to two articifial lakes formed by the river Alster. Situated between Lower Saxony and Schleswig-Holstein, it is a federated state in its own right. Its port on the river Elbe is the fourth-largest in Europe. For 10 points, name this second-largest city in Germany. ANSWER: Hamburg 
10. A man claimed to have called Abraham Ribicoff a "faker" at this event when Ribicoff decried "Gestapo tactics." Dan Rather was punched while reporting on this event, which occurred concurrently with protests in Grant Park. The same summer as this event, a similar meeting in Miami selected Richard Nixon as presidential candidate. For 10 points, name this meeting in Chicago that nominated Hubert Humphrey for President after a series of violent episodes. ANSWER: 19 68 Democratic National Convention [or 19 68 DNC ; prompt on partial answer] 
Quarter Two
1. One result of this event was the establishment of the Despotate of Epirus. This event also resulted in the removal from power of Alexius Murtzuphlus, as well as Alexius III and Alexius IV. This crusade's original leader, Theobald III of Champagne, died before it left and was replaced by Boniface of Montferrat. This crusade conquered Zara in order to pay off its debt to Venice. For 10 points, name this crusade that failed to reach the Holy Land after it sacked Constantinople. ANSWER: Fourth Crusade BONUS: This doge set up the deal between the Fourth Crusade and Venice that resulted in the attacks on Zara and Constantinople. ANSWER: Enrico Dandolo 
2. This event was sparked in part by the arrival of the Eleanor and Beaver at Griffin’s Wharf. This event grew out of a series of talks at the Old South Meeting House. The response to this event was the passage of the Intolerable Acts, which closed off one city’s port. This event resulted in three hundred and forty-two chests owned by the East India Company being dumped out by men dressed like Native Americans. For 10 points, name this 1773 event that occurred in a harbor in Massachusetts. ANSWER: Boston Tea Party BONUS: Along with the Eleanor and Beaver , this ship was involved in the Boston Tea Party, and it shares its name with an Ivy League school. ANSWER: Dartmouth 
3. An early example of this action was led by Brennus after the Battle of the Allia. Honorius led the losing side during a conflict leading to one of these events. One case of this action occurred in the wake of Petronius Maximus usurping the throne. This act was carried out on one occasion by Alaric, leader of the Visigoths, and on a later occasion by Gaiseric, a Vandal king. For 10 points, name these events that took place in 387 BCE and 410 and 455 CE, which involved capturing a certain "eternal city" in Italy. ANSWER: sack of Rome [accept anything that includes the idea of Rome being taken] BONUS: This pope may have persuaded Attila to not sack Rome, but he was much less successful in his negotiations with Gaiseric three years later. ANSWER: Leo I [or Leo the Great ; prompt on Leo ] 
4. Generals Phillips, Arnold, and Cornwallis conspired to destroy 10,000 hogsheads of this substance. The Chesapeake Consignment System dictated how this substance would be sold overseas. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson nearly went bankrupt after its prices fell precipitously. Colonial sentiment soared after Britain switched to Turkish and Egyptian-grown varieties of it. This substance was first grown in the United States from seeds brought from Trinidad by John Rolfe. For 10 points, name this nicotine-containing drug. ANSWER: tobacco BONUS: Name this kind of inland tax levied on the sale and production of such products as alcohol and tobacco. ANSWER: excise tax [or sin tax; or duty of excise special tax] 
5. One holder of this position succeeded Hubert Walter and led the Barons in forcing King John to sign the Magna Carta. Another holder of this post had his authority weakened by the Constitutions of Clarendon, and was martyred by four knights who responded to a plea to get rid of a "turbulent priest." For 10 points, name this senior clerical position held by Stephen Langton and Thomas Becket. ANSWER: Archbishop of Canterbury [prompt on partial answer] BONUS: Name the Plantagenet king, husband of Eleanor of Aquitaine, who ruled after the end of the Anarchy and hated Thomas Becket. ANSWER: Henry II [or Henry Curtmantle ; or Henry FitzEmpress ; prompt on Henry ] 
6. Due to the Harari Decision, this country has a series of Basic Laws instead of a constitution. In 1978, this nation launched Operation Litani against its northern neighbor to counter the Coastal Road Massacre led by Fatah. Its surprise attack on the Egyptian Air Force led to it claiming the Golan Heights during the Six Day War. In 1993, this nation signed the Oslo Accords that allowed for the PLO to rule Gaza and parts of the West Bank of this country's capital. For 10 points, name this nation with capital at Jerusalem. ANSWER: State of Israel [or Medinat Yisra'el ] BONUS: Name the current leader of the PLO and member of the Fatah faction, who is also the current President of the Palestinian National Authority. ANSWER: Mahmoud Abbas [or Abu Mazen ] 
7. In Wales, troops for this event were gathered by Baldwin of Ford. One leader of this campaign earned a crucial victory at the Battle of Iconium before drowning in the Saleph River. This expedition was prompted by the capture of Mount Hattin by the Ayyubids and was led by kings such as Richard the Lionheart, Philip Augustus, and Frederick Barbarossa. For 10 points, name this crusade that aimed to regain Jerusalem from Saladin. ANSWER: Crusade BONUS: The Crusade was called by the eighth pope of which name? The first pope of this name is known as "the Great." ANSWER: Gregory 
8. In 1991, this country's elections saw sixteen seats won by the Beer-Lovers Party, whose platform involved discussing politics in bars which served beer. Democracy had come to this country following the original Round Table Talks, which legitimized a group that arose from a dockworkers' strike. That marked a turn from the former hardline Communism of this country, whose capital was the namesake of a "pact" among Soviet bloc states. For 10 points, name this country where Lech Walesa's Solidarity party came to power. ANSWER: Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska ] BONUS: This former Archbishop of Krakow encouraged the Solidarity movement during trips to Poland while serving in a more prestigious religious post. ANSWER: Pope John Paul II [or Karol Jozef Wojtyla ] 
Quarter Three
CATEGORY: THE ROMAN REPUBLIC QUESTION: During the Roman Republic... 1. What mass of common people opposed the patricians in the "Struggle of the Orders?" ANSWER: plebeians [or plebs ] 2. What folded cloth was the main garment of Roman men? ANSWER: toga 3. Two colleagues simultaneously held what highest elected office? ANSWER: consul 4. Office was elected by the lower classes and could veto legislation? ANSWER: Plebeian tribune [or tribuni plebis; or tribune of the plebs; or tribune of the plebeians; or tribune of the people] 5. What leader of the "populares" implemented reforms to professionalize the Roman army? ANSWER: Gaius Marius 6. What king of Epirus (EHP-uh-rus) took heavy losses despite winning the Battle of Asculum (ASK-yuh-lum) against Rome? ANSWER: Pyrrhus of Epirus 7. What office in charge of public buildings was generally attained before the praetorship? ANSWER: aedile 8. What two brothers were murdered for pursuing land reform and citizenship for Rome's allies? ANSWER: the Gracchi [or Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus ] 
CATEGORY: BRITISH TREATIES QUESTION: With which nation did Britain sign the…. 1. Treaty of St. Petersburg? ANSWER: Russia n Federation [or Rossiya ; or Rossiyskaya Federatsiya ] 2. Treaty of Nanjing? ANSWER: People's Republic of China [or Zhongguo ; or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo ] 3. Rush-Bagot Treaty? ANSWER: United States of America [or America ; or US A] 4. Sykes-Picot Agreement and Cobden-Chevalier Treaty? ANSWER: France [or French Republic ; or Republique Francaise ] 5. Treaty of London, 1864, which ceded the Ionian islands? ANSWER: Greece [or Hellenic Republic ; or Ellas ; or Ellada ; or Elliniki Dhimokratia ] 6. Treaty of Waitangi? ANSWER: New Zealand 7. Treaty of the Dardanelles, 1809? ANSWER: Ottoman Empire 8. Treaty of Rawalpindi? ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanestan ] 
CATEGORY: THE SOUTHERN THEATER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR QUESTION: Name the battle in the southern theater of the American Revolution that saw... 1. The surrender of Cornwallis to George Washington. ANSWER: Yorktown 2. The defeat of Banastre Tarleton’s forces by Daniel Morgan in South Carolina grazing lands. ANSWER: Cowpens 3. The capture of the South's largest city and the surrender of Benjamin Lincoln. ANSWER: Charleston 4. The death of Major Patrick Ferguson at a promontory on the North Carolina-South Carolina border. ANSWER: Kings Mountain 5. A strategic victory for Nathanael Greene over Cornwallis at a North Carolina county seat. ANSWER: Guilford Courthouse 6. The death of Baron Johann de Kalb and the loss of over 900 patriot soldiers in a major defeat for Horatio Gates in South Carolina. ANSWER: Camden 7. The defeat of Baron von Steuben by British general William Philips at a Virginia site that later saw the Battle of the Crater in the Civil War. ANSWER: Blandford [or Petersburg ] 8. The last major battle of the Revolutionary War in the Carolinas, in which Nathanael Greene and Francis Marion fought Alexander Stewart near Charleston. ANSWER: Eutaw Springs 
Quarter Four
1. Jacques Rossi wrote a handbook detailing his experiences with this system, the subject of the Vorkuta Uprising and the Kengir Uprising. This agency created the White Sea-Baltic Canal and operated the mines of the (+) Kolyma region. Administered by the NKVD, this organization was compared to a vast (*) "archipelago" of individual islands by Alexander Solzhenitsyn, who documented the terrible conditions within it that led to fifteen million deaths. For 10 points, name this agency operating the forced labor camps of the Soviet Union. ANSWER: the Gulag [or the Chief Administration of Corrective Labor Camps and Colonies ; or Glavnoye upravleniye ispravityelno-trudovykh lagerey i koloniy ; prompt on Soviet labor camps or equivalents] 
2. This man was nominated for president by “The Great Agnostic,” Robert Ingersoll. He wrote “kindly burn this letter” to end the suspicious Mulligan letters. In one election, his nomination for president prompted a party revolt among the (+) Mugwumps. The leader of the Half Breeds, he lost one election partially due to Samuel Burchard’s speech denouncing (*) “Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion.” For 10 points, name this Republican leader who lost the 1884 presidential election to Grover Cleveland and who was mocked as the “continental liar from the state of Maine.” ANSWER: James Gillespie Blaine 
3. Future Polish dictator Josef Pilsudski collaborated with one side of this war in an attempt to sabotage the eventual losers' military efforts. An attack on unarmed fishing boats during this conflict nearly caused a war with Britain in the (+) Dogger Bank incident. The Baltic Fleet suffered a devastating defeat in this war while attempting to relieve the siege of Port Arthur. The Battle of (*) Tsushima in this war led to Theodore Roosevelt mediating the Treaty of Portsmouth. For 10 points, name this loss for a European country against an imperial Asian force at the turn of the twentieth century. ANSWER: Russo-Japanese War 
4. George W. Curtis headed an 1871 committee to implement the goals of this movement. Along with ending Reconstruction and lowering tariffs, this was a major platform of the Liberal Republican party. The (+) Half-Breeds supported this cause in opposition to Roscoe Conkling's Stalwarts. This movement gained momentum after Charles (*) (git-OHZ) Guiteau's assassination of James Garfield and had a success in the passage of the Pendleton Act. For 10 points, name this movement that sought an end to the "spoils system" of political appointments. ANSWER: civil service reform [or the merit system ; or the end of the spoils system ; or equivalents] 
5. This country's first armed independence movement ended under the terms of the Treaty of Szatmar. The Chrysanthemum Revolution created a democratic republic in this country, which was, within a year, overthrown and replaced by Europe's second Communist state, led by (+) Bela Kun. This country's sovereignty was established by the Compromise of 1867, but, under the terms of the Ausgleich (OWS-glike), it was still ruled by the emperor (*) Franz Joseph. For 10 points, name this country that was united with Austria under the Dual Monarchy. ANSWER: Hungary 
6. In the first celebration of this holiday, a vicar erected a large wooden cross at Tinui Taipos. In one service during this holiday, people stand-to during dawn and engage in two minutes of silence before a (+) bugler plays the Last Post and ends the service with the Reveille (REH-vuh-lee), the bugler's wake-up call. That is the Dawn Service and it was first held at the (*) Sydney Cenotaph. This holiday commemorates the first major action of two British Commonwealth Countries in World War I, the landing at Gallipoli. For 10 points, identify this April 25 holiday celebrated in Australia and New Zealand. ANSWER: ANZAC day [or Australian and New Zealand Army Corps day] 
7. As Chief Justice, this man’s court ruled that community interests had priority over private property in Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge . This man ruled that the President could not (+) suspend habeas corpus in Ex parte (*) Merryman . This man declared the Missouri Compromise unconstitutional and claimed descendants of slaves were not citizens in an 1857 case. For 10 points, name this Chief Justice who wrote the majority opinion in Dred Scott . ANSWER: Roger Brooke Taney (TAW-nee) 
8. During the Manhattan Project, this physicist along with Hans Bethe created equations to calculate the yield of a nuclear bomb. This man provided a quantum explanation for Landau’s theory of superfluidity. While working on the Rogers Commission investigating the (+) Challenger explosion, this man demonstrated the fragility of the O-rings by dunking one into a cup of ice water. This man won the Nobel prize along with Tomonaga and Schwinger for his work on (*) quantum electrodynamics. For 10 points, what Cal Tech physicist is most famous for his colorful lifestyle chronicled in his autobiography whose title asks “Surely You’re Joking?” ANSWER: Richard Phillips Feynman 
