NASAT 2013 
Round 7 
Tossups 
1. Before this character’s death, he sees two paths, equally straight, which concerns him, because he has 
only ever seen one. This man is introduced in the chapter “Vague Flashes on the Horizon”, where he is 
described as a “dog son of a wolf” with a human face. This son of a gypsy fortune-teller is curious about 
the “beggar who gives alms.” This one-time employee at the Bagne of Toulon confirms the identity of an 
apple thief named Champmathieu, which leads him to hand in his resignation to Monsieur Madeleine. He is 
tied to a pole after attempting to infiltrate the Friends of the ABC, but drowns himself after allowing 
Marius to escape from the barricades. For 10 points, name this police officer, Jean Valjean’s antagonist in  
Les Miserables 
. 
ANSWER: Inspector  
Javert 
190-13-83-07101 
2. This man’s distinction between “means-end rational” and “value-rational” actions led to Talcott 
Parsons’s theory of social action. One book that this man wrote claimed that the lack of Messianic 
prophecy in Hinduism led to a lack of incentive to innovate. He used a tool called the “ideal type” to argue 
that the excessive rationalization of Western society, particularly prevalent in bureaucracies, trapped people 
inside an “iron cage.” This thinker, who defined a state as an institution monopolizing the use of force in  
Politics as a Vocation 
, claimed in a different text that the idea of predestination led to the association of 
wealth with moral rectitude. For 10 points, name this German thinker who wrote  
The Protestant Ethic and 
the Spirit of Capitalism 
. 
ANSWER: Max  
Weber 
080-13-83-07102 
3. Two brothers in this play are described as \"plum-trees that grow crooked over standing-pools.\" A noble 
in this play tells her executioners to \"pull, and pull strongly, for your able strength must pull down heaven 
upon me.\" In a scene in this play set near a tomb, an \"Echo\" makes macabre predictions for the 
protagonist's husband. The protagonist first reveals herself to be pregnant when she eats some apricots 
offered to her by a stable-master doubling as a spy. In this play's final scene, Bosola takes revenge on the 
title character's murderous brothers, Ferdinand and the Cardinal, who commanded her not to remarry. For 
10 points, name this tragedy by John Webster. 
ANSWER:  
The  Duchess of Malfi 
190-13-83-07103 
4. This leader is likely to sign a law banning \"propaganda\" that treats same-sex relationships as equal to 
heterosexual relationships. This leader sponsored an effort to save an endangered species of crane by 
leading them along migration routes by hang glider. This leader's government operates a television network 
called RT that recently signed on Larry King. This leader angrily responded to the American Magnitsky 
Bill by forbidding Americans to adopt orphans from his country. In June, this leader and his wife jointly 
announced that they were divorcing after 30 years of marriage. For 10 points, name this black belt in judo 
who serves as the dictatorial president of Russia. 
ANSWER: Vladimir Vladimirovich  
Putin 
080-13-83-07104 
NASAT 2013     7     Page  1 of 11 
5. This book introduced truth tables as an alternative to the use of constants and axioms. It includes the 
story of a Paris court that used toy cars as an analogy for its picture theory of the proposition. Its sixth 
section calls the propositions of logic, mathematics, and philosophy “pseudo-propositions,” and claims this 
book itself only serves as a ladder which must be thrown to the side once it's been climbed. The 
introduction to this book was written by the author's teacher, Bertrand Russell. In the C.K. Ogden 
translation, this book ends “Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent” and begins “The world 
is all that is the case.” For 10 points, name this book by Ludwig Wittgenstein. 
ANSWER:  
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus 
 [or  
Logisch-Philosophische Abhandlun 
] 
121-13-83-07105 
6. This king's humanist adviser, Guillaume Bude, convinced him to found a secular rival to the Sorbonne 
emphasizing the teaching of Hebrew and Greek, the College de France. The life of this ruler is partially 
chronicled by the  
Heptameron 
 of his sister Margaret. This Christian king controversially formed the 
\"unholy alliance\" with the Ottoman Empire. This non-Bourbon king reversed his previous toleration after 
Protestants nailed an anti-Catholic poster to his door during the Affair of the Placards. This ruler was 
forced to give up Burgundy in the Treaty of Madrid, signed after he lost the decisive Battle of Pavia to the 
Holy Roman Empire. For 10 points, identify this Valois king of France who fought many useless wars 
against Charles V. 
ANSWER:  
Francis I 
 [or  
Francis of Angouleme 
; prompt on  
Francis 
] 
145-13-83-07106 
7. In an epic poem from this country, Joy-Giving Girl gets engaged to the son of Beautiful-Rich, Ibonia. 
This nation celebrates the New Year on Alahamady Be. The traveler's palm is one plant endemic to this 
island, whose language's transcription in the Arabic script was known as Sorabe. Maromokotro is located 
on the Tsaratanana Massif in this country's north, while its central plateau is home to most of the Merina 
People. Antsirabe and Toamasina are among this country's most populous cities. Its national language is 
Malagasy and it is separated from the mainland by the Mozambique Channel. For 10 points, name this 
island nation east of Africa to which lemurs are indigenous. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Madagascar 
192-13-83-07107 
8. The coupling of evanescent fields is often analogized to this phenomenon. False vacuums decay via this 
phenomenon to form bubbles in cosmic inflation. This phenomenon was first discovered when complex 
discrete eigenvalue solutions to the Schrodinger equation were found by George Gamow, who was 
studying alpha decay. A diode that exhibits negative resistance works as a result of this phenomenon, a fact 
first discovered by Leo Esaki. A conducting probe is held extremely close to a sample in order to image at 
the atomic level in a type of scanning microscope that uses this phenomenon. For 10 points, name this 
phenomenon in which a particle penetrates a potential barrier even though it lacks the energy to do so. 
ANSWER: quantum  
tunneling 
066-13-83-07108 
9. During a Columbus Day speech at Carnegie Hall, this man said \"there is no room\" in the US for 
\"hyphenated Americans.\" At a party convention, this man said \"We stand at Armageddon and we battle for 
the Lord.\" He gave a speech called \"Citizenship in a Republic,\" which has a passage that says \"it is not the 
critic who counts,\" but \"the man who is actually in the arena.\" With Candido Rondon, this man led a 1913 
scientific expedition to the \"River of Doubt\" in Brazil. He was shot in 1912 by John Schrank while 
campaigning for President, but said it \"took more than that to kill a Bull Moose.\" For 10 points, name this 
man who earlier succeeded William McKinley as President. 
ANSWER:  heodore  
T Roosevelt 
 [or  eddy  
T Roosevelt 
; or  
TR 
; prompt on  
Roosevelt 
] 
052-13-83-07109 
NASAT 2013     7     Page  2 of 11 
10. One class of methods for performing this operation takes the sum from one to n of a weighting function 
times a function and is accurate to degree two n minus one. The number of increments must be a multiple 
of three in order to use the 3/8 rule for this procedure. That class is named for Gauss. The n equals two case 
of the Newton-Cotes formula for this procedure approximates a curve using parabolas, and is called 
Simpson's Rule. This procedure can more easily be done with trapezoids or rectangles, when it's called a 
Riemann sum. For 10 points, name this procedure used to find the area under a curve. 
ANSWER: numerical  
integration 
 [or word forms; or  
quadrature 
] 
190-13-83-07110 
11. This molecule is produced in the cytoplasm by ATP citrate lyase before being added to the growing 
chain in fatty acid synthesis. In plants, this molecule can be converted into succinate via the glyoxylate 
cycle. When too much of this molecule is release into the bloodstream, it forms ketone bodies and can lead 
to ketosis. That can result from this molecule’s release during beta oxidation. The enzyme dihydrolipoyl 
dehydrogenase creates this molecule as a product. This molecule and a similar one are combined to form 
mevalonate to begin cholesterol synthesis. A dehydrogenase converts a precursor into this molecule before 
it enters the Krebs cycle. For 10 points, name this molecule, which is converted from pyruvate during 
cellular respiration. 
ANSWER:  
acetyl CoA 
 [or  
acetyl coenzymeA 
] 
140-13-83-07111 
12. A player of this instrument worked with his wife Abbey Lincoln on an album inspired by the 
Emancipation Proclamation, the  
Freedom Now 
 suite, and led an ill-starred quintet with Clifford Brown. 
Another player of this instrument recorded the album  
Moanin' 
 and founded an octet that launched the 
careers of Wynton Marsalis and Wayne Shorter, the Jazz Messengers. In Benny Goodman's band, Gene 
Krupa played this instrument, whose other users included Max Roach and Art Blakey. For 10 points, name 
this percussion instrument often played in jazz bands along with cymbals. 
ANSWER:  
drum 
s 
080-13-83-07112 
13. When this character is prohibited from drinking wine, he bribes a porter to bring him wine from behind 
his bed, which contributes to his later contraction of jaundice. This man's attempts to reach Udine through 
side roads fail, forcing him to float down a river on a log. He ends the novel he appears in by stating, \"After 
a while I went out and left the hospital and walked back to the hotel in the rain.\" His lover gives him a St. 
Anthony Medal after being introduced to him with Helen Ferguson. This friend of Rinaldi vacations in 
Montreux with a woman who dies after giving birth in Lausanne. For 10 points, name this lover of 
Catherine Barkley, an ambulance driver and protagonist of Ernest Hemingway's  
A Farewell to Arms. 
ANSWER: Frederic  
Henry 
 [or  
Frederic 
 Henry] 
192-13-83-07113 
14. One musician from this country was hailed for his \"flawless\" interpretation of Tartini's  
Devil's Trill 
 but 
faced the end of his career after a traffic accident in Times Square left him paralyzed. Another composer 
from this country produced \"Complaints, or the Maiden and the Nightingale,\" part of a suite inspired by 
early 19th century paintings. Another composer from this country produced an opera based on the Atlantis 
legend and included Candela's performance of a \"Ritual Fire Dance\" his ballet  
Love, the Magician 
, though 
he is best known for a ballet in which a magistrate fails to seduce a miller's wife. For 10 points, name this 
country, home to the composer of  
The Three-Cornered Hat 
, Manuel de Falla. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Spain 
 [or Reino de  
Espana 
] 
020-13-83-07114 
NASAT 2013     7     Page  3 of 11 
15. This woman's son killed her uncle Perses in order to regain a throne. King Alcinous agreed to shelter 
this woman only if she was married, then convinced her to marry in the middle of the night. This woman 
had to leave Greece after her husband recognized a sword left behind in Troezen; thus, this wife of Aegeus 
failed to kill Theseus. This sister of Apsyrtus hypnotized Talos into removing a nail from his foot. She 
convinced Pelias' sons to cut up their father, and escaped in a chariot pulled by dragons after sending 
Glauce a poisoned dress. She also gave her husband an ointment before he sowed a field with dragons' 
teeth. For 10 points, name this enchantress, the wife of Jason. 
ANSWER:  
Medea 
190-13-83-07115 
16. According to one chronicle, this battle featured a giant axeman who killed 40 soldiers before falling in 
combat. The losing commander at this battle had earlier captured York after defeating Morcar of 
Northumbria at the Battle of Fulford. Reinforcements in this battle arrived for one side from Riccall under 
Eystein Orri. The losing commander was accompanied at this battle by the brother of the eventual winner, 
Tostig. This engagement was sparked by a succession crisis that followed the death of Edward the 
Confessor, and it set the stage for the winning side to lose another battle later that year. For 10 points, name 
this defeat of an invading Viking force under Harald Hardrada. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Stamford Bridge 
145-13-83-07116 
17. Place name or people acceptable. The sailor Dymas lived in this place, where a deity went in disguise 
as Dymas’s daughter. Samuel Butler believed that a woman from this place adopted the pseudonym Homer 
to write poetry. In this place, the singing of Demodocus brings a visitor to tears. A resident of this location 
inspired the character of Gertie MacDowell. Arete is the queen of this place, whose sailors were 
transformed with their ship into stone by an angry Poseidon. Alcinous’s daughter, a princess of this island, 
comes across a nude man while doing laundry in Book VI of a Homeric epic. For 10 points, Nausicaa lives 
on what island, the last place Odysseus lands before returning home to Ithaca? 
ANSWER:  
Phaeacia 
 [or  
Skheria 
; or  
Phaeacia 
ns] 
104-13-83-07117 
18. Operations Shark and Harpoon were fake plans meant to hide the truth about this action. This action's 
planner noted when it took place that \"the world will hold its breath and make no comment.\" This action 
was outlined in the Lossberg study developed under Alfred Jodl. The intent behind it was to reach the \"A-A 
line\" and then bomb everything eastward. This action's first major phase culminated with the failed 
Operation Typhoon, and its major fighting was at the Battle of Smolensk. The code name for this action 
was Operation Barbarossa, and it was a violation of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. For 10 points, name this 
action begun on June 22, 1941, in which an Axis power disastrously opened up an eastern front in World 
War II. 
ANSWER: Nazi  
Germany invading the Soviet Union 
 [or  
Nazis invading Soviet Union 
; or either of the 
first two answers with  
Russia 
 instead of \"Soviet Union\"; accept Operation  
Barbarossa 
 before read; prompt 
on answers like \" 
Nazi-Soviet War 
\"] 
052-13-83-07118 
NASAT 2013     7     Page  4 of 11 
19. These things were first reported to the public in a 1973 paper by Klebesadel, et al., and they were 
studied by the BATSE instrument on the Compton Observatory. The afterglow of these things was first 
detected by the satellite BeppoSAX. One type of these things repeats at regular intervals and that type's 
origin is likely magnetars. They were first detected by the Vela satellites. These things are classified into 
long and short; the latter is thought to be caused by the merger of binary neutron stars while the former is 
likely a result of the core collapse of a rapidly rotating, massive star. For 10 points, identify these most 
energetic emissions in the universe. 
ANSWER:  
gamma ray burst 
s [or  
GRB 
s] 
066-13-83-07119 
20. An expose of this company was Patrick Wright's 1979 book  
On a Clear Day You Can See 
 \"this 
company.\" Joseph Alioto said it displayed a kind of \"monopoly evil\" for its work in eliminating 
competition in San Francisco. Its longtime president was Alfred P. Sloan, and its headquarters is at the 
Renaissance Center. A man who resigned from this company in 1973 was future accused-drug-trafficker 
John DeLorean. Secretary of Defense Charles Wilson said that what was good for the US \"was good for\" 
this company. One of this company's \"sporty\" products was the subject of the first chapter of Ralph Nader's 
book  
Unsafe at Any Speed 
. For 10 points, name this car company founded in Flint, Michigan, whose brands 
include Chevrolet and Buick. 
ANSWER:  
General Motors 
 Corporation [or  
GM 
] 
052-13-83-07120 
21. In the background of this painting, a man watches as two bears dance with their backs to each other. In 
its right foreground, a man wearing a red tunic and a feathered cap seemingly controls a globe floating 
above his left hand. A woman ties the devil to a pillow in the bottom left of this painting, below a house 
that takes up the majority of its left half, from which a man urinates onto a sign. Sometimes called  
The Blue 
Cloak, 
 it depicts two men holding each other by their noses, representing mutual trickery, over a stack of 
cards falling to the ground, representing the element of chance in man's fate. For 10 points, name this 
painting by Peter Bruegel the Elder, a literal depiction of idioms. 
ANSWER:  
Netherlandish Proverbs 
 [or  
Flemish Proverbs 
 or  
The  Topsy Turvy World , 
 accept  
The  Blue 
Cloak 
 before mention] 
192-13-83-07121 
22. Bruton's tyrosine kinase is essential for the creation of these cells. Follicular dendritic cells are so 
named because they were first discovered in follicles of these cells. These cells express CD19 and CD20. 
These cells present antigens bound to a class II MHC. Somatic hypermutation and V(D)J recombination of 
heavy and kappa or lambda chains occurs in them. The humoral branch of adaptive immunity is mediated 
by them. These cells produce antibodies. For 10 points, identify this lymphocyte that is produced and 
matures in the bone marrow, unlike the lymphocytes which mature in the thymus, T cells. 
ANSWER:   cells [or   lymphocytes] 
B B 
066-13-83-07122 
23. Toni Morrison wrote about this concept \"and the Literary Imagination\" in her book of criticism  
Playing 
in the Dark. The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym 
   ends with the narrator seeing a shrouded figure with skin 
of this color. Another novel mentions how stones of this color were considered good luck among the 
Romans and asks whether it “shadows forth the heartless void and immensities of the universe, and thus 
stabs us from behind with the thought of annihilation.” In that novel, one character calls for the death of a 
figure of this color in the chapter “The Quarter-Deck.” The narrator of that work is the only survivor of the 
destruction of the  
Pequod 
 by the animal of this color. For 10 points, name this color of the whale 
Moby-Dick. 
ANSWER:  
white 
 [or  
white 
ness] 
121-13-83-07123 
NASAT 2013     7     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2013 
Round 7 
Bonuses 
1. Zhu Xi's book  
Family Rituals 
 elaborated the \"Neo-\" form of this religion. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this system whose emphasis on filial piety and other forms of ancestor worship made it a 
target during the Cultural Revolution. 
ANSWER:  
Confucianism 
[10] This student of Confucius's grandson Zisi is known as the \"second sage\" of Confucianism for his 
fourth century BCE writings. 
ANSWER:  
Mencius 
 [or  
Mengzi 
; or  
Mengtzu 
; or  
Mengko 
] 
[10] The social order of Confucianism is based on the \"five relationships,\" which include friend and friend, 
father and son, ruler and subject, husband and wife, and this relationship. 
ANSWER: older and younger  
brother 
s [or obvious equivalents; prompt on \" 
sibling 
s\"] 
019-13-83-07201  
2. This artist photographed a pair of creepy-looking identical twins and a Jewish giant at home with his 
parents. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this woman who also photographed a child holding a toy hand grenade in Central Park. 
ANSWER: Diane  
Arbus 
[10] This woman, who photographed Japanese-American children taking the pledge of allegiance before 
being interned, is best known for a photograph depicting the hardship of the Depression,  
Migrant Mother 
. 
ANSWER: Dorothea  
Lange 
[10] Another female American photographer, Gertrude Kasebier, was a leading figure in this late-19th 
century movement in photography. Broadly speaking, this movement helped turn photography into an art 
form like painting by manipulating negatives to create an emotional response. 
ANSWER:  
Pictorialism 
 [accept word forms] 
080-13-83-07202  
3. This man frequently demonstrated his faith by punishing himself through applying a torch to his bare 
chest. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Franciscan friar best known for founding the chain of missions throughout the American 
West at places like Mission Carmel and Mission San Juan Capistrano. 
ANSWER: Junipero  
Serra 
 [or Miquel Joseph  
Serra 
] 
[10] Serra was based in this present-day state, where a statue of him can be found at Golden Gate Park. 
ANSWER:  
California 
[10] Sketches of the mission ended up in the California library named for a historian with this last name. 
Another historian with this surname was Polk's Secretary of the Navy and wrote the multi-volume  
History 
of the United States 
 in the nineteenth century. 
ANSWER:  
Bancroft 
 [or Hubert Howe  
Bancroft 
; or George  
Bancroft 
] 
052-13-83-07203  
NASAT 2013     7     Page  6 of 11 
4. Types of this technique include size exclusion and HPLC, while another form of it involves placing a 
piece of paper partially in a solvent. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this common laboratory technique, in which compounds in mixtures are separated based on 
factors such as solubility and boiling point. 
ANSWER:  
chromatography 
[10] During chromatography, the analyte is placed in this type of substance before it is passed through its 
opposite, the stationary phase. 
ANSWER:  
mobile 
 phase 
[10] In thin layer chromatography, this quantity, symbolized Rf, can be calculated by dividing the distance 
traveled by the analyte by the distance traveled by the solvent. 
ANSWER:  
retention factor 
 [or  
retardation factor 
] 
140-13-83-07204  
5. This river encapsulates the Maira River and flows through Piacenza. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this longest river in Italy, which flows through Turinon on the way to its mouth, near Venice. 
ANSWER:  
Po 
 River 
[10] The Po River flows into this sea east of Italy, which separates the peninsula from the Balkans. 
ANSWER:  
Adriatic 
 Sea 
[10] South of the Adriatic Sea is the Ionian Sea. The two seas are connected by this strait, the site of a 1997 
tragedy in which nearly a hundred Albanians drowned in it. 
ANSWER: Strait of  
Otranto 
192-13-83-07205  
6. This poem by the author of \"The Drunken Boat\" begins with the line, \"Once, if my memory serves me 
well.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this nine-part poem that features two sections titled \"Delirium\" and that depicts the speaker's 
descent into the underworld. 
ANSWER:  
A  Season in Hell 
 [or  
Une  Saison en Enfer 
] 
[10]  
A Season in Hell 
 and \"The Drunken Boat\" were written by this French poet, an influence on the 
surrealists who had an affair with Paul Verlaine. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Rimbaud 
[10] Verlaine wondered if the subject's hair was \"blond, brunette, reflecting russet gleams?\" in \"My 
Familiar Dream,\" a poem from this first collection of his. This 1866 collection includes the sections 
\"Melancholy\" and \"Sad Landscapes.\" 
ANSWER:  
Saturnine Poems 
 [or  
Poemes Saturniens 
] 
192-13-83-07206  
7. While painting a picture of the monastery of Santa Margharita in Prato, this artist abducted a novice nun 
from the order and kept her against her will in his house. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 15th century Florentine painter, held in much higher esteem for his  
Barbadori Altarpiece 
and his frescoes for the choir of the Cathedral of Spoleto, where he was buried. 
ANSWER: Fra Lippo  
Lippi 
 [or Fra Filippo  
Lippi 
] 
[10] This apprentice of Fra Lippo Lippi painted  
The Mystical Nativity 
 and  
The Birth of Venus 
 later in life. 
ANSWER: Sandro  
Botticelli 
 [or Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni  
Filipepi 
] 
[10] Lippi painted himself as a penitent monk in his 1441  
Coronation 
 of this person, who is raised to 
heaven while standing on a cloud in a Titian painting. 
ANSWER: the  
Virgin 
 Mary [or  
Saint Mary 
; or  
Madonna 
; prompt on  
Mary 
 alone] 
020-13-83-07207  
NASAT 2013     7     Page  7 of 11 
8. The first and last sections of W. G. Sebald's  
The Rings of Saturn 
 consider this writer, whose minor works 
include  
Religio Medici 
 and  
The Garden of Cyrus 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 17th-century English prose author who was inspired by an archaeological find in Norfolk to 
write his most famous work,  
Hydriotaphia, 
 or  
Urn-Burial 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Browne 
[10] This author, who extolled Browne's \"little twist in the brains\" in a letter, may be better known for 
poems like \"Kubla Khan\" and \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.\" 
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor  
Coleridge 
[10]  
Urn-Burial 
 provides the epigram for this Edgar Allan Poe short story, in which an orangutan turns out 
to be responsible for the title crimes. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Murders in the Rue Morgue 
\" 
080-13-83-07208  
9. This man collaborated with Charles Richter in developing the Richter magnitude scale. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this German seismologist who names a seismic velocity discontinuity at the bottom of the 
D-double prime layer. 
ANSWER: Beno  
Gutenberg 
[10] The D-double prime layer is found in the lower portion of this layer of the earth, which is located 
between the outer core and crust. 
ANSWER:  
mantle 
[10] The upper mantle contains this type of zone near the boundary of the lithosphere and asthenosphere. It 
is marked by a slightly reduced seismic velocity and can create a shadow zone unrelated to the one created 
by the outer core. 
ANSWER:  
low velocity 
 zone 
052-13-83-07209  
10. One of these creatures was killed by Francois Antoine in 1765, who stuffed it, and another was killed 
by Jean Chastel in 1767. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify these animals who were accused of attacking Frenchmen in the 1760s, inspiring the legend of 
the \"Beast of Gevaudan.\" Some sources claimed they killed over 100 people in this time, inspiring massive 
hunts. 
ANSWER:  
wolves 
 [or  
wolf 
; do not accept other answers—despite mythical explanations for the Beast, the 
only things ever killed were actual wolves] 
[10] The wolf killed by Antoine was sent to this royal palace, which was constructed by Louis XIV and 
which contained the Hall of Mirrors. 
ANSWER:  
Versailles 
[10] Louis XV put a bounty on the beast. A more notable incident in his reign was this May 1745 victory in 
the War of the Austrian Succession, a great victory for Maurice de Saxe over the Duke of Cumberland. 
Louis was personally present at this battle, which was fought in present-day Belgium. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Fontenoy 
052-13-83-07210  
NASAT 2013     7     Page  8 of 11 
11. One piece in this collection, \"Puck,\" is commonly played by beginning piano students. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this set of 66 works for solo piano, including the opening \"Arietta\" and the later \"Wedding Day 
at Troldhaugen.\" 
ANSWER:  
Lyric Pieces 
 [or  
Lyriske stykker 
] 
[10] The  
Lyric Pieces 
 were composed by this Norwegian, who included the famous melody \"In The Hall of 
the Mountain King\" within his incidental music to  
Peer Gynt. 
ANSWER: Edvard Hagerup  
Grieg 
[10] The first  
Peer Gynt 
 suite opens with this movement, which depicts a scene from the fourth act of the 
play that shows the sun rising in Morocco. 
ANSWER: \" 
Morning 
 Mood\" [or \" 
Morgen 
stemning\"; or \" 
Morgen 
stimmung\"] 
192-13-83-07211  
12. In this play, Father Dewis is having an affair with a woman who wants the city to put up a statue of her 
dead son, Ansel. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which Vince is not recognized by his grandfather Dodge when he brings his 
girlfriend Shelly to his family's home, where the offspring of Tilden and his mother Halie's incestuous 
union was killed years before. 
ANSWER:  
Buried Child 
[10]  
Buried Child 
 was written by this American playwright of  
The Tooth of Crime 
 and  
True West 
. He also 
played Chuck Yeager in the movie  
The Right Stuff 
. 
ANSWER: Sam  
Shepard 
[10] Shepard played the ghost of the title prince's father in Michael Almereyda's adaptation of this 
Shakespeare tragedy. 
ANSWER:  
Hamlet 
023-13-83-07212  
13. According to the theory of recapitulation, ontogeny recapitulates this. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this concept, the entire evolutionary history of a species. It often is demonstrated on namesake 
\"trees\" showing the branching off of new organisms. 
ANSWER:  
phylogeny 
 [or  
phylogenetics 
; or word forms] 
[10] This type of phylogenetic group consists of a single common ancestor and all of its descendants. 
ANSWER:  
clade 
 [or  
monophyletic 
 group; or  
holophyletic 
 group] 
[10] A clade must have one of these traits, which an earlier ancestor did not possess, but which all 
descendants do. They are contrasted with plesiomorphies. 
ANSWER:  
apomorphy 
 [or word forms; or  
synapomorphy 
] 
190-13-83-07213  
NASAT 2013     7     Page  9 of 11 
14. This man was the teacher of Hortense Powdermaker. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this linguist who taught at the University of Chicago and Yale. He is best known for lending his 
name to the principle of linguistic relativity with his student. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Sapir 
[10] Sapir studied the extinct Yana language which was primarily spoken in this modern day country. One 
of its speakers was Ishi. 
ANSWER: the  
United States 
 of America [or  
U.S. 
A.; or  
America 
; prompt on  
California 
] 
[10] Sapir said one of the hardest languages to work with was Dene, a variant of this North American 
language family whose individual languages are spoken throughout Canada, the Northwest, and Mexico. 
Forms of this language family include Navajo and Western Apache. 
ANSWER:  
Athabaskan 
 [or  
Athapaskan 
; or  
Northern Athabaskan 
; or  
Pacific Coast Athabaskan 
; or  
Southern Athabaskan 
] 
052-13-83-07214  
15. Alan Sokal's hoax paper in  
Social Text 
 purported to be aimed \"Toward a Transformative Hermeneutics\" 
of one type of this theory. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this theory which seeks to prove that spacetime itself is quantized, made up of dozens of spin 
networks of a certain shape. 
ANSWER:  
loop quantum gravity 
 [or  
LQG 
; prompt on  
quantum gravity 
] 
[10] Loop quantum gravity competes with this other theory for validation. It holds that all elementary 
particles are made up of the namesake oscillating, one-dimensional shapes. 
ANSWER:  
string 
 theory [or  
M-theory 
] 
[10] Loop quantum gravity and string theory are both examples of this kind of theory, which attempt to 
fully explain all phenomena. 
ANSWER: theories of  
everything 
 [or  
TOE 
; do not accept or prompt on \"grand unified theory\"] 
020-13-83-07215  
16. Characters in this novel include the incompetent midwife Dr. Slop, who flattens the title character’s 
nose with forceps soon after his birth. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel, which focuses on the birth and early life of the title character, as well as the story of 
his Uncle Toby. It was written by Laurence Sterne. 
ANSWER:  
Tristram Shandy 
 [or  
The Life and Times of  Tristram Shandy , Gentleman 
] 
[10] Another character in  
Tristram Shandy 
 is this carefree parson, who is likely Sterne’s alter ego. He is 
the protagonist of Sterne’s  
A Sentimental Journey 
. 
ANSWER:  
Yorick 
[10] In Sterne's  
A Sentimental Journey, 
 Smelfungus is based on this author of  
Roderick Random 
 and  
Humphry Clinker, 
 satirizing his attitude in his  
Travels through France and Italy 
. 
ANSWER: Tobias  
Smollett 
140-13-83-07216  
17. Answer the following about a mostly-obsolete device, for 10 points each. 
[10] Though word processors on computers have largely replaced this device, this mechanical invention 
can still print letters on a page in ink given the appropriate keystrokes on its QWERTY keyboard. 
ANSWER:  
typewriter 
[10] The typewriter and the QWERTY keyboard were both invented by this Wisconsinite. 
ANSWER: Christopher Latham  
Sholes 
[10] This alternate layout for a keyboard is supposedly more efficient than the QWERTY keyboard. It puts 
all the vowels on the left hand's home row. 
ANSWER:  
Dvorak 
 Simplified Keyboard 
080-13-83-07217  
NASAT 2013     7     Page  10 of 11 
18. In this novel, Lata carries on a flirtation with Kabir. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this long novel in which Mrs. Rupa Mehra attempts to find the title character and marry off her 
daughter. 
ANSWER:  
A  Suitable Boy 
[10]  
A Suitable Boy 
 was written by Vikram Seth, whose novel-in-verse  
The Golden Gate 
 employed the 
stanza used in this earlier novel-in-verse by Alexander Pushkin. 
ANSWER:  
Eugene Onegin 
[10] In Seth's novel  
An Equal Music, 
 the pianist Julia, the former lover of the violinist Michael, has begun 
to contract this condition, threatening her playing career. 
ANSWER:  
deaf 
ness 
192-13-83-07218  
19. This character disguises himself as an old man named Gangleri to visit Valhalla, where he meets Harr, 
Janharr, and Thridi on seats of different heights. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this king of Sweden who goes to visit the Norse gods in a section of the Prose Edda. 
ANSWER:  
Gylfi 
[10] In the Gylfaginning, Gylfi visits this home of the Norse Aesir, which can be reached via the rainbow 
bridge Bifrost. 
ANSWER:  
Asgard 
[10] The Gylfaginning is followed by the Skaldskaparmal, in which this Norse sea god converses with 
Bragi about poetry. The nine billow maidens are this god's daughters. 
ANSWER:  
Aegir 
080-13-83-07219  
20. The \"ham and eggs diplomat,\" Dwight Morrow, negotiated an end to this conflict. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this conflict from 1926 to 1929 that was a popular uprising directed against the anti-Catholic 
policies of Plutarco Calles. 
ANSWER:  
Cristero 
 War [or La  
Cristiada 
] 
[10] Calles had previously fought in the Mexican Revolution on the side of the Constitutional Army. At 
Agua Prieta, he defeated this man, the commander of the Division of the North, who was pursued by John 
Pershing after raiding Columbus, New Mexico. 
ANSWER: Pancho  
Villa 
 [or Francisco  
Villa 
; or Doroteo  
Arango 
] 
[10] During the Revolution, Calles originally supported this man, who eventually became president. This 
reformer was killed in the Ten Tragic Days that brought Victoriano Huerta to power. 
ANSWER: Francisco Indalecio  
Madero 
052-13-83-07220  
21. The death of Alvaro de Bazan led to this man gaining a new command. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this admiral mocked as an incompetent buffoon for his failure in commanding an August 1588 
expedition in which he lost fifty of Philip II's ships. 
ANSWER: Duke of  
Medina-Sidonia 
 [or Alonso  
Perez de Guzman 
] 
[10] The Spanish Armada failed to overthrow this \"Virgin Queen\" of England. 
ANSWER:  
Elizabeth I 
 [prompt on  
Elizabeth 
] 
[10] The Duke was mocked again after this Spanish city was captured by the Earl of Essex and Sir Charles 
Howard in 1596. It was previously raided by Francis Drake in an event called \"The Singeing of the King of 
Spain's Beard.\" 
ANSWER:  
Cadiz 
052-13-83-07221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     7     Page  11 of 11 
