NASAT 2011 
Round 8 
Tossups 
1. The assumption in Britton's lemma is that the word is equal to this. Any element of a coset H acts as one 
of these for H. In a group, if an element is of this type, it must commute with all other group elements and 
furthermore there is only one of these elements in a group. This is the result of a function composed with its 
inverse. In algebra, there are usually written as e. For matrices, this a matrix with ones down the diagonal 
and zeros elsewhere. For 10 points, name these elements and functions that preserve the operand 
exemplified by how one times any integer b is b. 
ANSWER:  
identity 
 element [or  
identity 
 function; or  
identity 
 map] 
001-11-30-08102 
2. This philosopher compares a central notion of one work to the claim that a woman either bought a 
left-hand and a right-hand glove, or a pair of gloves, but not both. He claimed that his mission was to 
correct the “logical geography” of a certain type of knowledge in a work whose mission he declares is to 
determine the “logical cross-bearings” of concepts. He criticized a position he claims stems from the 
confusion of Galilean scientific principles as applying to all existing things, the so-called “Official 
Doctrine.” He claimed that the statements “there occur mental processes” and “there occur physical 
processes” are not in the same category. For 10 points, name this author who called Cartesian dualism the 
“ghost in the machine” in his work  
The Concept of Mind 
. 
ANSWER: Gilbert  
Ryle 
026-11-30-08103 
3. One poem by this author asks, \"who are you, who are you?\" and begins, \"Thinking, tangling shadows in 
the deep solitude.\" This poet wrote \"the verse falls to the soul like dew to the pasture\" in a poem that 
claims, \"love is so short, forgetting is so long.\" He repeated the line, \"Deserted like the wharves at dawn\" in 
a poem that claims, \"It is the hour of departure.\" He wrote the lines, \"'The night is shattered and the blue 
stars shiver in the distance.\" He began one poem with the line \"The memory of you emerges from the night 
around me.\" For 10 points, name this poet, whose poem that begins, \"Tonight I can write the saddest lines\" 
is found in his collection  
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair 
. 
ANSWER: Pablo  
Neruda 
095-11-30-08104 
4. A defector from this man’s regime later published the book Red Horizons, which detailed many of this 
ruler’s shadowy operations. Salvador Dali complimented this man on his use of a scepter. This man 
advocated youth involvement in construction and got rid of collegiate sociology programs as part of his 
“July Theses”. Another of his policies declared mothers who had more than 10 children as “heroines” and 
outlawed most cases of abortion. This man’s downfall came after he attempted to remove Laszlo Tokes 
from his position as a pastor in Timisora, and he succeeded Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej as the General 
Secretary of his nation’s Communist Party. For 10 points, name this man who was executed along with his 
wife Elena on Christmas Day, 1989, the communist dictator of Romania. 
ANSWER: Nicolae  
Ceaucescu 
048-11-30-08105 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. On a holiday sacred to this deity, bilwa leaves are placed atop a symbol of him, which is bathed in yogurt 
and rose water every three hours. In one story, this god appeared as a massive pillar of fire and challenged 
two other deities to find its endpoints. This god is often depicted crushing the evil dwarf Apasmara. This 
god incinerates the god of love after being woken up by Kama. This god is often depicted in the form of 
Nataraja, the cosmic dancer. Worship of this god can involve “linga”, or sacred stones. This god rides the 
bull Nandi and uses a trident as a weapon. His wives include Parvati and Kali. For 10 points, name this 
Hindu god called “the destroyer”. 
ANSWER:  
Shiva 
021-11-30-08106 
6. This author wrote a novel in which the teetotaler Coupeau falls from a hospital roof into a play titled  
Drink 
. He wrote about the maiden Angelique who waits many years to marry a knight only to die the first 
time they kiss in the novel  
 The Dream  
. The title character of another of his novels is first encountered at a 
performance of  
The Blonde Venus 
 and ruins her lovers Philippe Hugon and the journalist Fauchery. This 
author wrote a novel in which the rich Gregoires only gives warm clothes and not food to the impoverished 
family of Maheude. Later in that novel, Etienne organizes a strike at the Montsou coal mines. This author 
included  
Nana 
 in his twenty-novel cycle,  
Les Rougon-Macquart 
. For 10 points, name this French novelist 
who wrote  
Germinal 
 and “J’Accuse”. 
ANSWER: Emile Francois  
Zola 
094-11-30-08107 
7. Two changes of setting in this opera are accompanied by the \"Transformation Music.\" The title character 
of this opera throws away his bow and arrow in shame after shooting down a swan. Another of its 
characters is doomed to wander the earth forever because she laughed at Christ on the cross. Six 
flower-maidens try to seduce the protagonist of this opera in an enchanted garden owned by the villain 
Klingsor. After having his feet washed by Kundry, the protagonist of this opera heals the wound of 
Amfortas with the spear that had stabbed Christ. For 10 points, name this opera about an Arthurian knight 
who seeks the holy grail, the last completed opera of Richard Wagner. 
ANSWER:  
Parsifal 
015-11-30-08108 
8. One deviation from this ideal system is mathematically described by an equation that includes a term 
proportional to the cube of position, where the proportionality constant is less than zero in the \"soft\" case. 
That equation is the Duffing equation. Another deviation from this ideal system is mathematically 
described by an equal that includes a term proportional to the time derivative of position, where the 
proportionality constant is known as the damping coefficient. This system itself is described by a 
second-order differential equation formed by equating Newton's Second Law and Hooke's Law. For 10 
points, sinusoidal motion is typical of what kind of system exemplified by pendulums and 
masses-on-springs? 
ANSWER:  
simple harmonic oscillator 
 [or  
SHO 
; or  
simple harmonic motion 
; or  
SHM 
; or mass-on-a- 
spring 
 until \"masses\"; or  
pendulum 
 before mentioned; prompt on harmonic  
oscillator 
] 
003-11-30-08109 
9. In 2003, this country saw the debut of the Blank Noise Project, a women’s movement designed to 
counteract the widespread sexual harassment known as “eve-teasing.” It is engaged in a longtime dispute 
over the Aksai Chin region with the country on its northeast border, which is separated by the Line of 
Actual Control. In this country’s northwest, the border runs through the Thar Desert and the Rann of 
Kutch, which cover territory in the states of Haryana and Rajasthan. For 10 points, name this larger of the 
two countries which were partitioned in 1947, the southern neighbor of Pakistan. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
India 
 [or  
Bharat 
] 
019-11-30-08110 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This politician had his men rough up those who didn't discard green ballot envelopes in favor of red 
votes. This man resigned from his powerless role as Interior Minister for the Commission of Administrative 
Reforms. Lucien Conein offered $40,000 to this man's generals to stage a coup, leading to his arrest at 
Cholon and his convoy stopping in front of railroad tracks, where he and his brother were killed. Brothels 
and opium dens were closed under the guidance of his brother's wife, Madame Nhu. Thich Quang Duc 
immolated himself to protest this man's anti-Buddhism. This successor of Bao Dai was backed by Kennedy 
until 1963. For 10 points, name this Catholic president of South Vietnam. 
ANSWER: Ngo Dinh  
Diem 
020-11-30-08111 
11. In a choral work by this composer, a series of commands shouted by a sergeant are met by a men's 
chorus defiantly singing \"Shema Yisroel.\" His first string quartet is only one movement, takes over forty 
minutes to perform, and consists of asymmetrical phrases this composer called \"musical prose.\" This 
composer founded the Society for Private Musical Performances in order to play modernist music, and 
developed his characteristic style after his wife Mathilde left him for the painter Richard Gerstl. His mature 
pieces, such as his Opus 26 Wind Quintet and  
A Survivor from Warsaw 
, lack a key center and often feature 
the technique of Sprechtsimme. For 10 points, name this leader of the Second Viennese School who 
developed serialism and the twelve-tone row. 
ANSWER: Arnold  
Schoenberg 
004-11-30-08112 
12. One theory to explain these phenomena was offered by the authors of the \"Time to Build\" paper, and 
invokes the neoclassical growth theory to explain them so that interpretations of these phenomena agree 
with long term growth models. That theory, developed by Finn Kydland and Edward Prescott assumes that 
technology shocks are the cause for them. Wesley Mitchell is best known for his work regarding these 
phenomena, and Austrian theory invokes credit levels as the cause of these phenomena, while William 
Jevons thought that varying sunspot levels are the cause for these. They have variable periodicity, as 
described by Kondratieff waves and Kuznets waves, and in the United States they are tracked by the 
NBER. For 10 points, identify these phenomena which are characterized by booms and busts in economic 
activity. 
ANSWER:  
business cycle 
s [accept:  
business cycle fluctuation 
s] 
108-11-30-08113 
13. In the second scene of this play, one character insults two scholars by saying \"But that I am by nature 
phlegmatic, slow to wrath, and prone to lechery.\" The \"B text\" version of this play changes the line \"Never 
too late, if\" and retains the stable-hand Rafe. In one scene, the title character causes antlers to sprout from 
the head of a knight at the court of Charles V, for whom Alexander the Great is conjured. Its protagonist is 
instructed by Valdes and Cornelius. The protagonist of this play wonders \"was this the face that launch'd a 
thousand ships\" after he summons Helen. He dies twenty four years after exchanging his soul for the 
service of Mephistopheles. For 10 points, name this \"tragical history\" by Christopher Marlowe. 
ANSWER:  
The Tragicall History of the Life and Death of  Doctor Faustus 
020-11-30-08114 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. Elongated shadows are cast by the heads of the figures in this painting upon a long, segmented mirror 
just behind them. A match container and a baton lie on one table in this painting, which is connected to 
another by a folded newspaper. George Moore's response to the female figure in this painting was \"What a 
slut.\" That figure, who wears white headgear, has her hands clasped under the table and her gaze fixed 
downward depressingly, and has been identified as the actress Ellen Andrée. Next to that woman is a man 
who is cut off by the edge of the painting, and between them is a glass of the title substance. For 10 points, 
identify this painting that depicts the alienation caused by a kind of alcohol, created by Edgar Degas. 
ANSWER:  
L' Absinthe 
 [or  
The  Absinthe Drinker 
; or  
Glass of Absinthe 
; or  
A  Sketch of a French Café 
; or  
Figures at Café 
] 
020-11-30-08115 
15. This event is believed to have fulfilled a prophecy found in Chapter 9, Verse 9 of the Book of 
Zechariah, and this event also has parallels with the treatment of Jehu in Chapter 9 of Second Kings. There 
is a dispute over whether this event involved one or two animals. The primary animal used during this 
event was found tied up but had never been used before. During this event, the crowd cried out “Hosanna, 
Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord” and waved tree branches. The commemoration of this 
event begins Holy Week and occurs seven days before Easter. For 10 points, name this event 
commemorated on Palm Sunday, in which Jesus rode a donkey into Christianity’s holiest city. 
ANSWER:  
Entry of Christ into Jerusalem 
021-11-30-08116 
16. The propylthio version of this compound is used in the treatment of hyperthyroidism. A derivative of 
this compound is administered with leucovorin in a common chemotherapy drug; that derivative is the 
5-fluoro version. This compound is synthesized via the decarboxylation of orotic acid. Nirenberg showed 
that polymers composed exclusively of it code for peptides containing only phenylalanine. The 
deamination of cytosine leads to this compound, a pseudo-version of which is present in tRNA. Originally 
discovered in hydrolyzed herring sperm, this pyrimidine has two ketone groups. For 10 points, name this 
base pair which replaces thymine in RNA and pairs with adenine. 
ANSWER:  
Uracil 
 or  
uridine 
048-11-30-08117 
17. This man’s stepfather, Henry Watkins, was able to help get this man’s career started by finding him 
work in the chancery office of Peter Tinsley. As a state representative, this man introduced a resolution for 
all members to wear homespun clothing, which eventually led to his fighting a duel with Humphrey 
Marshall. He was the defendant in a lawsuit filed by Charlotte Dupuy in an attempt to secure her release 
from slavery. This politician worked on the Treaty of Ghent with a man for whom he later served as 
Secretary of State. That role came about after an event dubbed the \"Corrupt Bargain\" took place. For 10 
points, name this member of the Whig party who was known as the Great Compromiser. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Clay 
, Sr. 
088-11-30-08118 
18. The Karlsruhe experiment tested this using sodium. Glatzmaier and Roberts developed the first 
self-consistent model for studying this theory. A similar theory in astronomy was shown to be possible by 
Eugene N. Parker by overcoming issues raised by Cowling's anti-theory of this. It gives rise to alpha and 
omega effects One issue in modeling this is heat flow across the CMB. Proposed mechanisms for the 
required energy include the freezing of deposited materials and decay of radioactive isotopes. The velocity 
needed for this to work is dependent on the magnetic Reynold's number. For 10 points, name this theory 
that Earth's magnetic field is caused by moving, electrical conductive fluid in the outer core. 
ANSWER: geo 
dynamo 
 theory 
001-11-30-08119 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. Richard Wagner and other revolutionaries were forced to flee this city after its disastrous “May 
Uprising” was squashed in 1849. Frederick II was allowed to control Silesia in return for acknowledging 
Francis I as Holy Roman Emperor in a treaty named for this city, which ended the Second Silesian War. 
Napoleon marched the Imperial Guard ninety miles in three days to save this city from Schwarzenberg in 
his last great victory in Germany. This city was known as the “Florence on the Elbe,” and replaced 
Wittenberg and Meissen as the capital of Saxony. For 10 points, name this German city that was 
extensively firebombed by the Allies during World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Dresden 
015-11-30-08120 
20. The protagonist of this novel is unable to obtain information after Randolph Driblette's suicide. Stanley 
Koteks refers the main character to John Nefastis who claims to have invented a perpetual motion machine, 
and she visits a bar named The Scope with where she learns about the Peter Pinguid Society from Mike 
Fallopian. The protagonist has a vision of a post horn while investigating Richard Wharfinger's play  
The 
Courier’s Tragedy 
. This novel begins when the protagonist becomes the executor of Pierce Inverarity's 
estate whose stamp collection contains a symbol associated with the Trystero organization. For 10 points, 
name this novel in which Oedipa Maas discovers a conspiracy between rival mail companies, written by 
Thomas Pynchon. 
ANSWER:  
The  Crying of Lot 49 
064-11-30-08121 
21. The protagonist of this novel is duped by a man claiming to be part of a secret society called the “calf’s 
head.” The artist Pellerin constantly changes his portrait of a woman nicknamed the “Marshal,” while the 
main character goes to an auction where he is shocked to find that his own his own furniture is being sold 
in retaliation for borrowing money from his mistress Madame Dambreuse. The protagonist of this novel 
shares an apartment during law school with Charles Deslauriers and during a voyage down the Seine in this 
novel’s opening chapter he first sees his love, Madame Arnoux. For 10 points, name this novel about 
Frederic Moreau, written by Gustave Flaubert. 
ANSWER:  
Sentimental Education 
 [or  
L'Éducation Sentimentale 
] 
109-11-30-08122 
22. The forces of one side in this battle were partially commanded by Moharem Bey, whose note to the 
enemies asking them not to advance into the main field of combat was met with a reply that they intended 
to give orders and not to take them. This battle broke out when one side spotted a fireship being prepared 
for launch, and it took place at the site of the ancient city of Pulos. The winning side was aided by French 
ships under Henri de Rigny and Russian vessels under Login Geiden, and that side's commander was 
Edward Codrington, who became the last person to win a battle of wooden capital ships. Ibrahim Pasha's 
violations of the Treaty of London led to, for 10 points, which 1827 naval battle during the Greek War of 
Independence? 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Navarino 
040-11-30-08123 
23. The Q-e scheme regards the reaction rate of monomeric examples of these substances. AIBN is used to 
create these substances for synthesis reactions and another example of these is TEMPO. The effectiveness 
of starting a reaction using these can be decreased by solvent cage effects. Heat or an initiator is used to 
create these through homolysis of precursors like diatomic chlorine. Specific applications of these species 
include both polymerization and cracking. They aren't carbocations, but they can be stabilized by 
hyperconjugation and mechanisms involving them use fishhook curly arrows. For 10 points, name usually 
reactive these species with an unpaired electron, whose damage to cells can be prevented by antioxidants. 
ANSWER: free  
radical 
001-11-30-08124 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 8 
Bonuses 
1. Name some dissenting religious movements, for 10 points each. 
[10] Lead by John Wycliffe, this English movement stressed the importance of scripture in Christianity and 
claimed that the office of the Pope lacked any justification. 
ANSWER:  
Lollards 
[10] This sect stresses the importance of the Holy Spirit and “inner light,” the direct awareness of God 
present in all people. One belief of this sect is the \"peaceable kingdom,\" the idea that predatory animals will 
become docile after the return of Christ. 
ANSWER:  
Quaker 
s [or  
Society of Friends 
] 
[10] Supported by Blaise Pascal, this belief claimed to be derived from St. Augustine and put a great 
emphasis on original sin. It was declared heretical in 1655 in the bull  
Cum occasione. 
ANSWER:  
Jansenism 
100-11-30-08201 
2. As a baby, his face was run over by a carriage carrying the Hillards family’s groceries. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this character who decides to go to Harvard after dreaming of his dead brother Ben while 
spending his last night in the Dixieland boardinghouse run by his mother Eliza. 
ANSWER:  
Eugene 
 Gant [prompt Gant; do not accept or prompt George Webber] 
[10] Eugene Gant first appears in this author's novel  
Look Homeward, Angel  
, which takes its title from 
Milton’s  
Lycidas 
. He wrote a sequel titled  
Of Time and the River 
. 
ANSWER:  
Thomas Wolfe 
 [prompt Wolfe; prompt T Wolfe; do not accept or prompt Tom Wolfe] 
[10] Eugene lives in his mother boarding house in this fictional town based on Wolfe's hometown of 
Asheville, North Carolina. 
ANSWER:  
Altamont 
079-11-30-08202 
3. Mr. Wakem buys the title residence in this novel. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this novel that concludes with siblings Tom and Maggie Tulliver dying after a flood ravishes 
their village of St. Ogg’s. 
ANSWER:  
The  Mill on the Floss 
[10]  
The Mill on the Floss 
 is a novel by this author of  
Middlemarch 
. 
ANSWER: George  
Eliot 
 [or Mary Ann  
Evans 
] 
[10] In George Eliot’s  
Silas Marner 
, Silas ends up caring for this child of Molly Farren and Godfrey Cass. 
ANSWER:  
Eppie 
094-11-30-08203 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Software like QEMU run these and Xen acts as a monitor for these. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these programs that run a self-contained operating system on top of a host machine. They 
protection from certain attacks by preventing the host machine from being compromised even if these are 
compromised. 
ANSWER:  
virtual machine 
[10] This other technology used to stop attacks randomizes the location of important data in a process' 
memory space, such as the libraries it uses. 
ANSWER:  ddress  pace  ayout  andomization 
A S L R 
[10] One way to prevent external attacks is by using one of these programs that blocks predetermined types 
of network traffic. Commonly this is done by shutting off certain ports or stopping traffic to and from 
certain addresses. 
ANSWER:  
firewall 
066-11-30-08204 
5. Originally composed for harpsichord, it was twice recorded by Canadian pianist Glenn Gould. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this set of nine canons and twenty-one adaptations of a central aria, named for one of the 
composer’s students. 
ANSWER:  
The  Goldberg Variations 
[10] This Baroque German composer wrote  
The Goldberg Variations 
. 
ANSWER: Johannes Sebastian  
Bach 
[10] This Danish contemporary of Bach earlier included thirty-two variations for harpsichord in  
La 
Capricciosa 
 and composed the oratorio  
Membra Jesu Nostri 
. 
ANSWER: Dietrich  
Buxtehude 
079-11-30-08205 
6. Name the following about reform in ancient Rome, for 10 points each: 
[10] This emperor increased Roman revenues enormously by standardizing tax collecting and spreading it 
consistently around the empire. He was known as Octavian until he became the first emperor. 
ANSWER:  
Augustus 
[10] The advocacy of Terentilius was crucial in the creation of this ancient law code, which was completed 
after a plebeian secession in 449 BC. 
ANSWER:  
Twelve Tables 
[10] This reformer proposed serious populist land reforms in the Lex Sempronia Agraria and was killed 
while running for tribune in 133 BC. 
ANSWER:  
Tiberius Gracchus 
 [prompt on  
Gracchus 
] 
015-11-30-08206 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. One version of this scene, in the main altar of the Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari, shows God the Father 
at the top welcoming the title figure with open arms. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this scene, where the twelve apostles can be seen gathered around the title female’s tomb in a 
version by Rubens. 
ANSWER: The  
Assumption 
 of the Holy  
Virgin 
 Mary [or  
Assumption of Mary 
] 
[10] One notable version of  
The Assumption of the Virgin 
 was painted by this man, who included two 
cheetahs in his  
The Meeting of Bacchus and Ariadne 
. He also painted the  
Madonna of the Pesaro Family 
. 
ANSWER:  
Titian 
 [or Tiziano  
Vecelli 
 or Tiziano  
Vecellio 
] 
[10] Titian is probably best known for this painting, which heavily influenced Manet’s  
Olympia 
. In it, a dog 
sleeps next to the nude title character as two servants look into a chest in the background. 
ANSWER:  
The  Venus of Urbino 
094-11-30-08207 
8. Most continuous logistic solutions for a population approach this value. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this maximum population size of a given species that an environment can support. 
ANSWER:  
carrying capacity 
[10] Square instances of these mathematical objects named for Leslie can be used to model a discrete age 
structured population. 
ANSWER:  
matrix 
 [or  
matrices 
] 
[10] The first row of a age structured Leslie matrix contain the class specific values of this reproductive 
potential of a female. This is not the same as fertility, which is the realized version of this. 
ANSWER:  
fecundity 
001-11-30-08208 
9. Name these masters of the short story, for 10 points each. 
[10] This French author of “Le Horla” wrote about the devastating realization that the title object was a 
fake in “The Necklace.” 
ANSWER: Guy de  
Maupassant 
[10] This Russian came to prominence with his novel  
The Village 
 but is largely remembered for stories like 
“The Gentleman from San Francisco.” 
ANSWER: Ivan Alekseyevich  
Bunin 
[10] This Canadian has cemented her reputation as a short story author with collections titled  
Runaway 
,  
Dance of the Happy Shades 
, and  
Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage 
. 
ANSWER: Alice  
Munro 
015-11-30-08209 
10. Answer these questions about quasiparticles, for 10 points each. 
[10] This quasiparticle, which is the quantum of the normal vibrational mode, represents the vibrational 
energy that arises from oscillating atoms in a crystal. 
ANSWER:  
phonon 
[10] Phonon distributions can be probed using this form of spectroscopy. It works by having laser light 
interact with vibrations in matter, producing Stokes and Anti-Stokes frequencies. 
ANSWER:  
Raman 
 spectroscopy 
[10] Phonons are utilized by the Debye model of heat capacity which predicts that at low temperatures, the 
heat capacity is proportional to this power of the ratio of the temperature to the Debye temperature. 
ANSWER:  
cubic 
 [or  
cube 
; or  
third 
] 
024-11-30-08210 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. This conflict is also known as the Saltpeter War. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this war in which Peru and Bolivia fought together against another neighboring country. 
ANSWER: War of the  
Pacific 
[10] Peru and Bolivia fought against this nation that signed the Treaty of Piece and Friendship with Bolivia 
in 1904 in its capital of Santiago. 
ANSWER:  
Chile 
[10] In 1880, the three parties conducted failed negotiations aboard this U.S. ship, for which the conference 
is named. Chile refused to withdraw its forces from lands it had occupied during the war. 
ANSWER:  
Lackawanna 
 Conference [or  
Arica 
 Conference] 
081-11-30-08211 
12. This country became an independent nation after the 2006 severance of its union with Montenegro. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this country of Gavrilo Princip, who assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand. 
ANSWER:  
Serbia 
[10] Although the Serbian Milos Obilic managed to assassinate Murad I, Prince Lazar was defeated by the 
Ottomans at this 1389 battle. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Kosovo 
[10] The Battle of Kosovo occurred on the feast day of this saint, who was martyred with Modestus and 
Cresentia under Diocletian. He is the namesake of a massive Cathedral in Prague. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Vitus 
015-11-30-08212 
13. Her autobiography,  
The Long Loneliness, 
 describes why she converted to Catholicism after several 
years of working for socialist newspapers. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this leader of the Catholic Worker movement, who co-founded that group’s namesake 
newspaper with Peter Maturin. 
ANSWER: Dorothy  
Day 
[10] An earlier newspaper that Day worked for shared its name with this anti-slavery journal operated by 
William Lloyd Garrison. 
ANSWER:  
The  Liberator 
[10] Another Catholic public figure of the 1930s was this publisher of  
Social Justice, 
 a Detroit priest whose 
popular radio program attacked Jews and the Roosevelt administration. 
ANSWER: Father Charles Edward  
Coughlin 
019-11-30-08213 
14. This bandleader assembled a nonet for an album that helped spark “West Coast Jazz,” his  
The Birth of 
the Cool 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this jazz trumpeter who included the track “Freddie Freeloader” on his album  
Kind of Blue 
. 
ANSWER: Miles  
Davis 
[10] Davis worked with Gil Evans on this album, which includes arrangements of \"Concierto de Aranjuez\" 
and other songs from an Iberian nation. 
ANSWER:  
Sketches of Spain 
[10] This Davis album includes tracks like “Pharaoh’s Dance” and “Spanish Key” and was controversial at 
the time for including electric instruments and a rock sensibility. 
ANSWER:  
Bitches Brew 
015-11-30-08214 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. Name these German sociologists, for 10 points each. 
[10] This thinker argued that a state has a “monopoly on the use of force” and credited the reformation for 
the rise of capitalism in  
The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism 
. 
ANSWER: Max  
Weber 
[10] This man was best known for drawing the distinction between the concepts of Gemeinschaft and 
Gesellschaft, which are loosely translated as community and society. 
ANSWER: Ferdinand  
Tonnies 
[10] This author of  
The Philosophy of Money 
 discussed the ways that urban life effects the intellectual in 
his essay  
The Metropolis and Mental Life 
. 
ANSWER: Georg  
Simmel 
015-11-30-08215 
16. This man classified tautological, contradictory, and empirical statements as the meaningful ones in his 
work that tries to eliminate the title constructs,, his  
 Pseudoproblems in Philosophy  
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German thinker that also wrote  
 The Logical Structure of the World  
. 
ANSWER: Rudolph  
Carnap 
[10] This philosophical discipline is the oft-discussed disciplined to be eliminated in Carnap's  
Pseudoproblems in Philosophy.  
 This discipline generally deals with the first cause of things. Kant wrote 
about the  
 this  
 of morals. 
ANSWER:  
metaphysics 
[10] Carnap's compatriot Hempel attacked this approach to acquiring knowledge with the raven paradox. 
This approach involves deriving generalizations from specific cases. 
ANSWER:  
induction 
033-11-30-08216 
17. Children are encouraged to scream on this holiday, which is celebrated one day later in walled cities. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Jewish holiday commemorating Esther’s deliverance of the Jews from an evil Persian king. 
ANSWER:  
Purim 
[10] Celebrants of Purim are supposed to get so drunk that they cannot distinguish the phrase “Blessed be 
Mordechai” from the words “Cursed be [this man],” the evil Persian councilor. 
ANSWER:  
Haman 
[10] It is considered a mitzvah on Purim to pronounce the names of the ten sons of Haman in this manner. 
ANSWER:  
in one breath 
 [or equivalents] 
079-11-30-08217 
18. Paul Ehrenfest classified these based on the order derivative of the free energy with respect to a 
thermodynamic state variable needed for a discontinuity. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this changes that are also the study of Landau theory. 
ANSWER:  
phase transition 
 [or  
phase change 
] 
[10] On a PT diagram, these curves separate phases such as liquid and solid. 
ANSWER:  
coexistence 
 curve 
[10] The coexistence curve for a liquid and its vapor can be determined this equation named for two 
scientists. It states that the derivative of the log of pressure with respect to temperature equals delta H over 
R T squared. 
ANSWER:  
Clausius-Clapeyron 
 equation 
001-11-30-08218 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. One story about this man in the Muslim tradition claims that Muhammad invoked his knowledge of this 
man to prove to members of the Quraysh that he was a prophet of God. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Old Testament prophet, who more notably was swallowed by a giant fish when he tried to 
shirk his duty. 
ANSWER:  
Jonah 
[10] Jonah is sent to warn this city to repent. When the citizens of this city do indeed renounce their evil 
ways, Jonah becomes despondent out of worry that his task was pointless. 
ANSWER:  
Nineveh 
[10] The story of Jonah appears in the second Biblical book of this name, which also includes the 
assumption of the throne by David's son Solomon. 
ANSWER:  
Kings 
081-11-30-08219 
20. The characters of this work flee Florence for ten days as a plague passes through the city. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this collection of 100 short stories by Giovanni Boccaccio. 
ANSWER:  
The  Decameron 
[10] In the last story from  
The Decameron 
, this extremely patient character marries Gualtieri, who tests her 
by pretending to have their children executed and to leave her for another woman. 
ANSWER:  
Griselda 
[10] A famous section of  
The Decameron 
 describes a parable about three of these objects in which Saladin 
questions Melchizedek about the origins of the three major monotheistic religions. It was later borrowed by 
Gotthold Lessing for  
 Nathan the Wise 
. 
ANSWER:  
ring 
s 
088-11-30-08220 
21. This property is share by both the empty and whole space. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of set, the complement of an open set. 
ANSWER:  
closed 
 set 
[10] This type of set consists of the set of all subsets of a starting set. For a starting set with n elements, this 
type of set consists of 2^n elements. 
ANSWER:  
power 
 set 
[10] These are sets with relational structure such that every non-empty subset has a least element. 
ANSWER:  
well ordered 
 set 
064-11-30-08221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 8     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
