VHSL Regular Season 
Round 18 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This President signed a bill allowing use of the line-item veto that was later overturned. The AmeriCorps program was created 
during this man's presidency. Members of this man's cabinet included Robert Reich and Warren Christopher, the latter of whom 
helped to broker the Oslo Accords. This President appointed Stephen Breyer to the Supreme Court. This man approved the \"don't 
ask, don't tell\" policy in the army. For 10 points, name this President whose tenure was marked by the Whitewater and the 
Lewinsky scandals, and whose wife is the current Secretary of State. 
ANSWER:  William Jefferson  
Clinton 
038-09-2-03101 
2. The Towers of Hanoi was formulate by a scientist from this country, and a different scientist from this country names a theorem 
that provides the basis for RSA. A \"twister\" that generates random numbers is named for a man from here, and he names numbers 
that are the target of the GIMPS program. Those numbers are special primes.  For 10 points, name this country home to Marin 
Mersenne and the namesake of the program Pascal. 
ANSWER:  
France 
033-09-2-03102 
3. This author wrote a novel that begins and ends in the middle of the same sentence and that includes Humphrey Earwicker. 
Another of this man's novels opens by reproducing a lullaby about a moocow that meets Baby Tuckoo. This author wrote about 
Gabriel Conroy's realization that his wife Gretta loves Michael Furey in his short story “The Dead.” He created the character Buck 
Mulligan in a novel that features a Jewish businessman who is cuckolded by Molly. For 10 points, name this author of  
Finnegans 
Wake A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man Dubliners 
,  ,  , and a book about Leopold Bloom,  
Ulysses 
. 
ANSWER:   James Augustine Aloysius  
Joyce 
027-09-2-03103 
4. The British version of this show was created by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant. In that show, Gervais plays the 
incompetent David Brent, who along with Tim Canterbury and Dawn Tinsley works for Wernham-Hogg. In the US version, which 
premiered in 2005, a British flag appears on the boss' desk in tribute to the show's origins. Tim and Dawn's US complements are 
Jim and Pam in, for 10 points, what television series in which employees of the Scranton branch of the Dunder-Mifflin Paper 
Company deal with bumbling regional manager Michael Scott? 
ANSWER:  
The  Office 
045-09-2-03104 
5. In one work, this author wrote about Jotham Riddle, who is promoted by Sheriff Jones. In another work by this author, the 
singing teacher David Gamut uses his slingshot and offers to take the place of \"Le Cerf Agile.\" In a novel, this author described 
the marriage of Oliver Edwards to Elizabeth, the daughter of Judge Marmaduke Temple. Colonel Munro's daughter Cora is taken 
by Magua in a work by this author, which prompts Uncas's father Hawkeye to kill Magua. For 10 points, name this American 
author who wrote  
The Pioneers 
 and  
The Last of the Mohicans 
. 
ANSWER:    James Fenimore  
Cooper 
033-09-2-03105 
6. This condition is most commonly caused by a gain-of-function mutation on a fibroblast growth factor receptor gene.  That 
mutation results in abnormal inhibition of chondrocyte division, so the condition is called achondroplasia.  People with this 
condition can be proportional if it is caused by abnormally low levels of pituitary growth hormone, but those with achondroplasia 
have only abnormally sized arms and legs.  For 10 points, give this condition in which a person is abnormally short. 
ANSWER:  
dwarf 
ism [prompt on reasonable synonyms for  
short people 
] 
003-09-2-03106 
7. This figure was kidnapped by twin giants Otis and Ephialtes and imprisoned in a jar until he was rescued by Hermes. At the 
request of his mother, Hera, this god was wounded by Diomedes during the Trojan War. This deity turned the watchman 
Alectryon into a rooster after Helios discovered this god with the wife of Hephaestus. This god was accompanied by his sister, 
Enyo, and his sons Demios and Phobos. Children resulting from this god's affair with Aphrodite included Harmonia and Eros. For 
10 points, name this Greek god of war. 
ANSWER:   
Ares 
005-09-2-03107 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 18     Page  1 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Though he is not Thomas Edison, this man developed what would become the Neo-Bechstein Flugel electric piano and an 
electric lamp that did not use a tungsten filament. This man's \"New Heat Theorem\" is a restatement of the Third Law of 
Thermodynamics. An equation after this man contains a constant multiplied by temperature and the natural log of the reaction 
quotient. For 10 points, name this German chemist, who won the 1920 Nobel Prize in Chemistry and whose equation can find the 
electromotive force or Gibbs free energy for an electric half-cell. 
ANSWER: Walther Hermann  
Nernst 
003-09-2-03108 
9. This author created his own mythology that includes Orc, the creative passion, and Urizen, the tradition. This author of  
The 
Marriage of Heaven and Hell 
 wrote two collections of poetry which both include poems titled \"Divine Image\" and \"The Chimney 
Sweeper.\" This author asked \"Who made thee?\" in one of his poems. He wrote another poem that asks \"What immortal hand or 
eye, could frame thy fearful symmetry!\" of a creature \"burning bright in the forests of the night.\" For 10 points, name this author 
who wrote  
Songs of Innocence and Experience 
, a collection that contains his poems \"The Lamb\" and \"The Tyger.\" 
ANSWER:   William  
Blake 
034-09-2-03109 
10. During the First Continental Congress, this man wrote an  
Address to the People of Great Britain 
. In another work, this man 
wrote \"Concerning Danger from Foreign Force and Influence.\" French outrage over one of this man's actions largely led to the 
Quasi-War. That action by this man consisted of negotiating a treaty with Lord Grenville. This man wrote five of the Federalist 
Papers. This man's namesake 1794 treaty opened favorable relations with Great Britain. In another role, this man heard the case  
Chisolm v. Georgia 
. For 10 points, name this first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. 
ANSWER:  John  
Jay 
028-09-2-03110 
11. This composer opened his Piano Concerto in G with a whip crack and also wrote a piano piece depicting playing water,  
Jeau 
d'eux 
. He wrote a technically difficult movement about an imp named \"Scarbo\" in his  
Gaspard de la Nuit 
. He also wrote a piano 
solo on the dance of a Spanish princess,  
Pavane for a Dead Princess 
, and orchestrated Mussorgsky's  
Pictures at an Exhibition 
. 
His most famous work contains many repetitions of the same theme with growing dynamic intensity. For 10 points, name this 
French Impressionist composer of  
Bolero 
. 
ANSWER:   Joseph-Maurice  
Ravel 
036-09-2-03111 
12. Participants in this rebellion fought against Queen Cockacoeske of the Pamunkey. This rebellion was sparked by a Doeg raid 
on the farm of Thomas Matthews. John Ingram led the rebels in this conflict once its leader died of dysentery. This rebellion was 
ended by the Treaty of Middle Plantation after Governor William Berkeley finally regained control of the colony. In this rebellion, 
disgruntled frontiersman took up arms against Native Americans and burned the capital of Jamestown. For 10 points, name this 
rebellion led by the namesake member of the House of Burgesses in 1676 in Virginia. 
ANSWER:    
Bacon 
's Rebellion 
035-09-2-03112 
13. This author wrote about Richard Digby turning into the title metal after drinking water from a cave in \"The Man of Adamant.\" 
This author of a campaign biography for Millard Fillmore wrote about Reverend Hooper's refusal to remove sinister headwear in 
\"The Minister's Black Veil.\" This man included a story about Aylmer killing Georgianna while trying to remove the title blemish 
in his story collection  
Mosses from an Old Manse 
. For 10 points name this author of \"The Birthmark\" also known for novels like  
The House of the Seven Gables 
 and  
The Scarlet Letter 
. 
ANSWER:     Nathaniel  
Hawthorne 
015-09-2-03113 
14. After threatening to abdicate, this ruler divided his territory into the zemshchina and a portion administered directly by him. 
This man created a guard for that portion which terrorized the country, the oprichniki. This man also called the first of his 
country's assemblies of the land, or zemsky sobors. This ruler accidentally killed his heir in a fit of rage. This man was the first to 
be given the title of tsar. For 10 points, name this ruler of Russia most famous for his torture and killing of many boyars. 
ANSWER:   
Ivan IV 
 of Russia [or  
Ivan the Terrible 
; or  
Ivan Grozny 
; or  
Ivan the Awesome 
 and equivalents] 
023-09-2-03114 
15. One of this author's poems notes that a \"boy too far from town to learn baseball\" could \"do worse than be a swinger\" of the 
title tree. Another of his poems takes place on \"the darkest evening of the year\" and ends with the narrator remembering he has 
\"miles to go before I sleep.\" One of this author's character's claims that \"Good fences make good neighbors.\" This author of 
\"Birches\" and \"Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening\" wrote that \"two roads diverged in a yellow wood.\" For 10 points, name 
this poet who wrote \"Mending Wall\" and \"The Road Not Taken.\" 
ANSWER:   Robert Lee  
Frost 
015-09-2-03115 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 18     Page  2 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 18 
Directed Round 
1A. One form of it is the pathetic fallacy, and examples of it are the characters Death and Sloth in  
The Pilgrims Progress 
. Name 
this practice of giving human qualities to non-humans. 
ANSWER:   
personification 
1B. In this film, \"Luca Brasi sleeps with the fishes,\" and Michael’s Sicilian wife is blown up in a car. Name this movie starring Al 
Pacino and Marlon Brando as Vito Corleone. 
ANSWER:   
The  Godfather 
2A. He believed that humans went through castration anxiety in his phallic stage, which can only go away once the Oedipus 
complex is resolved. Name this author of  
The Interpretation of Dreams 
. 
ANSWER:  Sigmund  
Freud 
2B. This country was accused of having the military harvest organs by a Swedish journalist. Name this country that is led by 
Prime Minister Binyamin Natanyahu. 
ANSWER:  State of  
Israel 
 [or Medinat  
Yisra’el 
] 
3A. They are often used to write nouns, adjectives, and verb roots. Name this Japanese script that uses Chinese characters, 
contrasted with hiragana and katakana. 
ANSWER:   
Kanji 
3B. This substance is made of linking pyrimidines and purines, and two strands of it are held together by hydrogen bonds. Name 
this substance that is tightly coiled in chromosomes. 
ANSWER:   
DNA 
 [or  
deoxyribonucleic acid 
] 
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve for y in terms of x: 6x + 9y = x - 6. 
ANSWER:    
y = (-5x - 6)/9 
 [or equivalents] 
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Add: (x  + 8x  - 8x + 3) + (3x  + 7x  - 3). 
3 2 3 2 
ANSWER:    
4x  + 15x  - 8x 
3 2 
5A. The 14 isotope of this element is used in dating, and it has 4 electroms in its valence shell. Name this element that creates a 
dioxide that is used in photosynthesis, with number 6. 
ANSWER:   
carbon 
 [or  ] 
C 
5B. It began to grow when the Kanawha canal was built to connect it to Richmond, and near it is Appomattox courthouse. Name 
this city, home to Liberty University. 
ANSWER:   
Lynchburg 
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the area of a rectangle with a width of four inches and twice as long as it is 
wide. 
ANSWER:    
32 square inches 
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Convert 61/125 into decimal form. 
ANSWER:    
0.488 
7A. He frequently writes commentaries for Granma, the official party news organ of his country, and recently appeared in a 
televised meeting with Venezuelan students. Name this former dictator of Cuba. 
ANSWER:  Fidel  
Castro 
 Ruz 
7B. Its proponents are known for writing metanarratives that deconstructed how the novel is structured. Name this school of 
literature, adhered to by figures like John Barth. 
ANSWER:   
postmodernism 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 18     Page  3 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8A. This region has been shown to be where seismic waves rapidly increase their velocity. Name this boundary between the 
Earth’s mantle and crust. 
ANSWER:   
Moho 
 [or  
Mohorovicic 
 discontinuity] 
8B. He names an equation expressing changes in chemical potential in terms of the change in pressure and temperature of a 
system with Duhem. Name this scientist, who names a free energy. 
ANSWER:  Josiah Willard  
Gibbs 
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. A box of 20 components contains five bad components. If you pull two components 
out of the box, what is the probability that exactly one of them is bad? 
ANSWER:    
15/76 
 [or  
75/380 
 or equivalents] 
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. If twelve pennies make a shilling, and twenty shillings make a pound, how many 
pounds is 312 pennies? 
ANSWER:    
1.3 
 pounds 
10A. Rogers Hornsby joined the lineup of this team in 1915. For 10 points, name this team that is housed in Busch Stadium, 
formerly home to stars such as Bob Gibson and Mark McGwire. 
ANSWER:  Saint Louis  
Cardinals 
 [or  
Saint Louis 
 Cardinals] 
10B. One painting with this name by Hieronymous Bosch is a triptych flanked by heaven and hell. Name this title shared by a 
John Constable painting of a wagon crossing a stream. 
ANSWER:   
The  Haywain 
027-09-2-03116 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 18     Page  4 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 18 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In 1921, Percy Cox oversaw a plebiscite in this country which ratified Faysal I (FEISS-ul) as its king. In 1968, the Arif 
government of this country was overthrown by the Revolutionary Command Council. This country's government used chemical 
weapons against internal opposition at Halabja in 1988, in fear that this natino's minorities might collaborate with this country's 
eastern neighbor. During rule by the Baath Party, this country fought a 1980 to 1990 war with Iran. For 10 points, name this 
country whose invasion of Kuwait in 1990 sparked the first Persian Gulf War. 
ANSWER:  Republic of  
Iraq 
 [or Al-Jumhhuriyah al- 
Iraq 
iyah] 
019-09-2-03117 
2. After being damaged in a studio, the first version of this painting was acquired by a museum in Bremen only to be destroyed in 
a British air raid nearly one hundred years later.  The second version, a full sized copy of the first, was exhibited in New York 
before being donated to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1897, and it is a copy of that work that resides in the West Wing in the 
White House.  One anachronism found in this work of art is that the flag depicted did not actually exist at the time of the event 
shown.  For 10 points, name this Emmanuel Leutze painting depicting James Monroe and his superior in a boat. 
ANSWER:   
Washington Crossing the Delaware 
040-09-2-03118 
3. This ruler oversaw the murder of Crispus and Fausta. The gold coin this man established, the solidus, was used for centuries. 
The son of Helena, this ruler consolidated power by defeating Licinius at Chrysopolis. In one battle, this man defeated Maxentius. 
This ruler issued the Edict of Milan. This man allegedly saw a cross with the words \"In this sign, conquer\" during the Battle of 
Milvian Bridge. For 10 points, name this first Christian Roman Emperor. 
ANSWER:   
Constantine I 
 of Rome [or  
Constantine the Great 
; or Flavius Valerius  
Constantinus 
; prompt on  
Constantine 
] 
030-09-2-03119 
4. A three dimensional generalization of this law was formulated by Cauchy and makes use of the compliance matrix. A constant 
used in this law is equal to \"Young's Modulus times cross-sectional area over length.\" This law only holds for a material's elastic 
range, where stress is linearly related to strain.  This law gives a restoring force equal to the displacement from equilibrium times a 
material-dependent constant, symbolized \"k.\"  For 10 points, name this law often used to model springs, which is named for an 
English scientist. 
ANSWER:  
Hooke 
's Law 
028-09-2-03120 
5. In one story by this author, Malandain accuses Hauchecorne of stealing a pocketbook. This author created George du Roy in  
Bel-Ami 
 and wrote of Rachel the Jewess killing a cruel German major in his story “Mademoiselle Fifi.” He also wrote a story in 
which a group of travelers in a stagecoach forces a prostitute to sleep with a Prussian officer. Mathilde Loisel works for years to 
pay for the loss of a jewel that turned out to be fake in another of his stories. For 10 points, name this author of “Ball of Fat” and 
“The Necklace.” 
ANSWER:    Henry René Albert Guy de  
Maupassant 
034-09-2-03121 
6. Indigenous minorities in this country are collectively known as \"scheduled tribes.\" Another group which is protected from 
discrimination by this country's constitution was renamed \"Children of God\" or \"Harijans\" (HARR-ee-johnz). That group includes 
all people in this country who make a living by fishing, tanning hides, or handling bodily fluids. This country is also home to 160 
million Muslims, though more Muslims lived here before the 1947 partition of this country. The \"untouchables\" fall outside the 
caste system of, for 10 points, what country, whose laws attempt to forbid bigotry in favor of the majority, Hindus? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
India 
 [or  
Bharat 
] 
019-09-2-03122 
7. Eleven days after a victory at the Battle of Gravelines over this, one monarch gave the Speech to the Troops at Tilbury. This 
expedition was supported by Pope Sixtus V. If this expedition had gone according to plan, an army under Alexander Farnese 
would have been transported to its destination. The Duke of Medina Sidonia commanded this, and men such as Charles Howard 
and Francis Drake defeated this expedition. For 10 points, name this massive, failed naval expedition by Philip II, which tried to 
capture England from Elizabeth I in 1588. 
ANSWER:  Spanish  
Armada 
 [or Invincible  
Armada 
; or  
Great and Most Merry Navy 
] 
035-09-2-03123 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 18     Page  5 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Hyperphosphorylation of tau proteins in this disease causes neurofibrillary tangles of microtubules. Plaques of amyloid beta 
accumulate during the progression of this disease and the cholingeric theory of this disease states that it is caused by a decrease in 
acetylcholine. This disease causes the death of neurons in the hippocampus and is a form of dementia. For 10 points, name this 
disease that causes neural degeneration and the loss of cognitive ability in the elderly, a disease that inflicted Ronald Reagan. 
ANSWER:  
Alzheimer 
's Disease 
036-09-2-03124 
9. The second piece in this work mentions the False Dawn, and the narrator hears the Tavern urge him to awake. Another piece in 
this work states that neither piety, wit, nor “all thy tears” can wash out a word that has been written. This work has been notably 
translated by Edward FitzGerald. In one of the famous poems in this collection, the narrator asserts that the wilderness is paradise 
with “a jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and thou.” For 10 points, name this series of quatrains by the Persian poet Omar Khayyam. 
ANSWER:     
Rubaiyat  of Omar Khayyam 
034-09-2-03125 
10. A solo for the fourth horn appears in the third movement of this composition, which opens with soft tremolos in the strings and 
a pianissimo theme played by a wind trio.One portion of this composition's final movement is a 6/8 march that includes a setting 
of the words \"Froh, wie seine Sonnen fliegen.\" That fourth movement is a theme and variations, ending with a finale involving 
orchestra and vocalists singing text written by Friedrich Schiller. For 10 points, name this symphony whose final chorus is set to 
the poem \"Ode to Joy,\" which was the last symphony written by Ludwig van Beethoven. 
ANSWER:    
Symphony 
 No.   by Ludwig van  
9 Beethoven 
 [or  
Choral 
 Symphony; or  
Beethoven's Ninth 
; or Symphony No.  
9 
after \"Beethoven\"] 
032-09-2-03126 
11. New species that appeared during this period include coralline algae and the invertebrate rudists and belemnites.  The 
Morrison Formation was formed during it as a remnant of the Sundance Sea, while other geographic developments include the 
formation of the Gulf of Mexico and the splitting of Pangaea into Laurasia and Gondwana.  Named after the Swiss mountain range 
in which it was originally formulated by Abraham Werner, this is, for 10 points, which middle period of the Mesozoic Era found 
between the Triassic and the Cretaceous? 
ANSWER:   
Jurassic 
 Period 
040-09-2-03127 
12. This figure disguised his wife as his sister in order to extort money from both a Pharaoh and Abimelech. This figure was 
blessed by Melchizedek, and this man sent Eliezer to his homeland to look for a bride for one of his sons. The younger of this 
man's two sons was born a year after his mother laughed at pair of visiting angels, while the elder was exiled into the desert with 
his mother Hagar. For 10 points, name this first Jewish patriarch, husband of Sarah, and father of Ishmael and Isaac. 
ANSWER:   
Abraham 
 [or  
Avaraham 
; or  
Ibrahim 
] 
005-09-2-03128 
13. The hyperbolic version of this function is \"e to the x, minus e to the negative x, all over two.\" Taking a side length of a triangle 
and dividing by this function applied to the opposite angle gives the diameter of the circle that circumscribes the triangle. In a 
triangle, for any angle the value of this function divided by the length of the opposite side is a constant, a result known as this 
function's namesake law. For 10 points, name this trigonometric function which is the reciprocal of the cosecant, and which is 
defined for an angle in a right triangle as opposite over hypotenuse. 
ANSWER:  
sine 
028-09-2-03129 
14. In one poem, this author called science the \"true daughter of old time.\" He also wrote a poem about a \"blood-red thing that 
writhes\" and is the hero of a tragedy called \"Man.\" That poem by this author is \"The Conqueror Worm,\" which appears in his story 
in which Lady Rowena becomes the title character, \"Ligeia.\" In another story by this man, Montresor describes how he got his 
revenge on Fortunato. Several of his stories feature the detective C. Auguste Dupin, including \"The Purloined Letter.\" For 10 
points, name this American writer known for such poems as \"Lenore\" and \"The Raven.\" 
ANSWER:   Edgar Allan  
Poe 
024-09-2-03130 
15. These people were soundly defeated by a Mamluk force under Baibars at the Battle of Ayn Jalut.  This group's conquest of 
Hungary was greatly aided by the battle plans of Subotai. Under Hulagu, this people sacked Baghdad in 1258. This group also 
overthrew the Song Dynasty and set up the Yuan Dynasty in China. This people's invasion of Japan was defeated by a kamikaze, 
or massive typhoon.  For 10 points, name this people of the steppes of central Asia, governed by Khans such as Kublai and 
Genghis. 
ANSWER:   
Mongol 
s 
003-09-2-03131 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 18     Page  6 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 18 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. These features together form a structure that sits above the calyx. The term merosity refers to how many of these structures a 
plant has. Monocots have a multiple of three of these structures. Where one might expect these structures in asters, many \"ray 
florets\" are exhibited, which are merely flowers with a single one of these. The tepals differentiate into sepals and these structures. 
For 10 points, give this term for the colorful components of a flower. 
ANSWER:   
petal 
s 
022-09-2-03132 
2. One character in this work shows a chest of jewelry to her friend Martha after her mother donates another chest to the church. 
The title character of this work has an assistant named Wagner, and is challenged to a duel by Valentine. In the second part of this 
drama, the protagonist has a son named Euphorion with Helen of Troy. This work opens with a prologue set in heaven describing 
a wager. The first part of this drama ends with Gretchen imprisoned after the title character is tempted by Mephistopheles. For 10 
points, name this Wolfgang von Goethe (GUr-tah) play about a man who sells his soul to the devil. 
ANSWER:    
Faust 
015-09-2-03133 
3. This thinker condemned religious persecution in \"A Letter Concerning Toleration\". This man believed that since knowledge 
was gained only through experience, the mind was, at birth, a blank slate or \"tabula rasa\" in  
An Essay Concerning Human 
Understanding 
.For 10 points, identify this English philosopher who refuted the divine right of kings in \"Two Treatises on 
Government\"  and stated that all men were entitled to life, liberty, and property. 
ANSWER:  John  
Locke 
005-09-2-03134 
4. The entropy of one of these may be found exactly by the Sackur-Tetrode equation, and Bose-Einstein statistics describe one of 
these substances made up of photons. The free electron model analyzes the valence electrons of a metal as though they behaved 
like one of these. Substances tend to behave more like these as temperature increases and particle number decreases, thereby 
decreasing the relative size of intermolecular forces. For 10 points, name these substances, which name an equation of state often 
given as PV = nRT. 
ANSWER:  
ideal gas 
 [prompt on  
gas 
] 
022-09-2-03135 
5. This economist co-wrote  
A Monetary History of the United States 
 with Anna Schwartz, and co-wrote  
Free to Choose 
 with his 
wife Rose. He popularized the quantity theory of money with his 1956 restatement of it, and he argued against the Bretton Woods 
system and occupational licensing in  
Capitalism and Freedom 
. For 10 points, name this economist who, along with George 
Stigler, is considered one of the founders of the Chicago School. 
ANSWER: Milton  
Friedman 
024-09-2-03136 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 18     Page  7 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
