2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 14 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The rate-limiting step of the synthesis of this molecule involves the production of mevalonate. 
Unusually, mycoplasma requires this molecule to grow in culture. The synthesis of this molecule can be 
blocked by inhibiting the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase. This molecule, whose levels can be lowered using 
statins, is responsible for maintaining membrane fluidity. For 10 points, name this lipid that serves as the 
precursor for steroid hormones and can also be found in atherosclerotic plaques. 
ANSWER:  
cholesterol 
048-13-90-14101 
2. This novel is set on the day of its author’s first date with his future wife, Nora Barnacle. This novel’s 
final episode is a virtually punctuation-less soliloquy delivered by the protagonist’s wife Molly. In this 
novel, the intellectual Stephen Dedalus is the analogue of Telemachus in 1904 Dublin, while Leopold 
Bloom loosely resembles the title mythological figure. For 10 points, name this massive modernist novel 
written by James Joyce. 
ANSWER:  
Ulysses 
014-13-90-14102 
3. A philosopher belonging to this school described a falsity to oneself as a kind of bad faith. A key part of 
this philosophy is the idea of the absurd, which can grow from viewing the world as being without design 
and lead to a state of anxiety. A writer given this label considered \"the most urgent of questions\" to be 
suicide in his essay,  
The Myth of Sisyphus. 
. For 10 points, name this philosophy developed by Albert 
Camus and the author of  
Being and Nothingness 
, Jean-Paul Sartre. 
ANSWER:  
existentialism 
 [accept word forms] 
023-13-90-14103 
4. A light source placed at the focus of a mirror of this type will reflect all parallel rays. This curve can be 
defined as the locus of all points equidistant from the focus and directrix. This curve can be formed by 
intersecting a plane through just the top of a mirrored right circular cones, making it the only conic section 
that passes the vertical line test. For 10 points, identify this curve that corresponds to the graph of quadratic 
functions like y equals x squared. 
ANSWER:  
parabola 
 [or word forms] 
066-13-90-14104 
5. This author begins a novel with the murder of Ambassador Roj Sarton. In that book, Elijah Baley 
partners with this author’s recurring character, R. Daneel Olivaw, to find the killer. This man created 
“three laws” for a type of character who could not injure a human being and who had to obey human 
orders. These rules apply to characters like the title entity in  
The Positronic Man 
. For 10 points, name this 
science fiction author who wrote the collection  
I, Robot 
. 
ANSWER: Isaac  
Asimov 
 [or Isaak  
Ozimov 
] 
052-13-90-14105 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  1 of 9 
6. This author divided a book into the sections “objects,” “food,” and “rooms,” and that book consists of 
what this writer called “word clusters.” Pablo Picasso noted this author would eventually resemble the 
aged, heavyset depiction that he painted of her. Along with partner Alice B. Toklas, this author of  
Tender 
Buttons 
 maintained a Parisian salon that welcomed many Lost Generation members. For 10 points, name 
this female American poet who wrote the lines “Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose.” 
ANSWER: Gertrude  
Stein 
052-13-90-14106 
7. This is the number of amino acids in the standard ER retention sequence. Streptavidin binds to this many 
molecules of biotin. The gene responsible for Huntington’s disease maps to this chromosome. This is the 
number of polypeptide subunits in hemoglobin, as well as the number of sperm generated from a single 
primary spermatocyte. For 10 points, give this number, which is also the number of bases in DNA and the 
number of legs a tetrapod has. 
ANSWER:  
four 
048-13-90-14107 
8. In one novel from this country, a man escapes his family living in a big city to begin an affair with the 
denizen of a hot springs town. Another author from this country described the arson of one of its landmarks 
in  
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, 
 and killed himself on television after staging a failed right-wing 
coup. A story from this country describes a girl's attempt to fold a thousand paper cranes to cure her 
leukemia. For 10 points, name this Asian nation whose postmodern literary movement stems from the 
trauma of two atomic bomb attacks. 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nippon 
-koku; or  
Nihon 
-koku] 
020-13-90-14108 
9. A documentary about people working in this medium follows Thierry Guetta through his transformation 
into Mr. Brainwash. This artistic medium depicted in  
Exit Through the Gift Shop 
 is practiced by Banksy. 
During World War II, this medium was used with the phrase \"Kilroy was here.\" For 10 points, name this 
artistic medium that can be signed with a tag, and which is frequently at odds with law enforcement 
because it can involve vandalizing public property with spray cans. 
ANSWER:  
graffiti 
 [or  
urban 
 art; or  
street 
 art; accept  
tagging 
 before it is read] 
023-13-90-14109 
10. The distance from this object is a prominent component of the Milankovitch cycles. This object is 
studied by SOHO and THEMIS. The Homestake experiment only detected about a third of the expected 
neutrinos from this object. An eleven year cycle is displayed by lower temperature \"spots\" on the surface of 
this object. Pierre Janssen discovered helium by studying the spectrum of the chromosphere of this object. 
For 10 points, identify this star found at the center of the Solar System. 
ANSWER:  
Sun 
066-13-90-14110 
11. This colony was home to a Frenchman who claimed \"individuals...are melted into a new race\" to 
answer the question \"What is an American?\" in his  
Letters from an American Farmer. 
 At a 1754 meeting in 
this colony, Benjamin Franklin proposed a failed plan to unify the 13 colonies. This colony was renamed in 
honor of James II after its Dutch governor, Peter Stuyvesant, ceded it to the English. For 10 points, name 
this colony whose history includes the Albany Congress and the Battle of Long Island. 
ANSWER:  
New York 
080-13-90-14111 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  2 of 9 
12. This poem’s speaker states, “All went blind; all lame; drunk with fatigue,” and later describes a 
“hanging face, like a devil’s sick of sin.” This poem refutes “the Old Lie” from Horace’s  
Odes. 
 This poem 
describes a group of men “bent double, like old beggars under sacks, knock-kneed, coughing like hags” 
before depicting the effects a gas attack in World War I. For 10 points, name this antiwar poem by Wilfred 
Owen with a Latin title. 
ANSWER: “ 
Dulce et Decorum Est 
” 
014-13-90-14112 
13. This man noted that many “red-blooded Americans” would go to Florida State after noticing Jenn 
Sterger. This broadcaster was criticized for ogling Alabama quarterback A.J. McCarron’s girlfriend, 
Katherine Webb. In September 2013, he asked Eminem if the Detroit Lions would cover the point spread in 
an awkward interview. He is noted for using the catch phrase “You are looking live…” For 10 points, name 
this longtime college football announcer who currently teams with Kirk Herbstreit on ABC. 
ANSWER: Brent  
Musberger 
052-13-90-14113 
14. In Lagrangian mechanics, a generalized coordinate is associated with a generalized one of these 
quantities, and its operator is negative i times h-bar times grad. The conservation of this quantity arises 
from the symmetry of spacetime under translation according to Noether’s theorem. The change in this 
quantity is equal to the applied impulse, and this quantity is conserved in all collisions. For 10 points, name 
this quantity equal to mass times velocity. 
ANSWER: linear  
momentum 
 [or  ] 
p 
048-13-90-14114 
15. This poem describes the “turbid ebb and flow of human misery” in the mind of Sophocles. This 
poem’s final stanza begins, “Ah, love, let us be true to one another!” before describing a “darkling plain” 
where “ignorant armies clash by night.” The speaker of this poem notes how “the tide is full, the moon lies 
fair upon the straits” after beginning, “The sea is calm tonight.” For 10 points, name this poem by Matthew 
Arnold. 
ANSWER: “ 
Dover Beach 
” 
014-13-90-14115 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 14 
Directed Round 
1A.  What physicist developed the path integral formulation and had his Caltech lectures compiled into an 
introductory physics textbook? 
ANSWER: Richard  
Feynman 
1B.  House Republicans have voted over forth times to repeal what act that originally passed in the House 
in March 2010? 
ANSWER:  
Obamacare 
 [or Patient Protection and  
Affordable Care 
 Act; or PP 
ACA 
] 
2A.  What functional group contains an oxygen atom single bonded to two alkyl chains? 
ANSWER:  
ether 
2B.  Soldier Lee Rigby was gruesomely murdered on the streets of what European capital city in May 
2013? 
ANSWER:  
London 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the area of a right triangle which has hypotenuse 17 
and one leg of length 15? 
ANSWER:  
60 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. The cotangent of theta is negative and the cosecant of theta is 
positive. In what quadrant is angle theta? 
ANSWER: quadrant  
II 
4A.  Name the free and open source operating system whose kernel was originally designed by Linus 
Torvalds and which has many different distributions, such as Debian and Fedora. 
ANSWER: GNU/ 
Linux 
4B.  What European country was led for over 20 years by Communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu 
(chuh-CHESS-cue)? 
ANSWER:  
Romania 
5A.  What composer was influenced by gypsy music in composing his  
Hungarian Rhapsodies 
? 
ANSWER: Franz  
Liszt 
 [or  
Liszt 
 Ferenc] 
5B.  What deadly compound, with formula “CN minus”, inhibits cytochrome C in the electron transport 
chain? 
ANSWER:  
cyanide 
6A.  What African river flows between the capital cities Kinshasa and Brazzaville? 
ANSWER:  
Congo 
 River 
6B.  What German author wrote about Hans Castorp in his novel  
The Magic Mountain 
? 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Mann 
7A.  What painting by Jan Vermeer depicts a young woman with a blue and yellow turban and a piece of 
jewelry dangling above her shoulder? 
ANSWER:  
Girl with a Pearl Earring 
7B.  What Apostle originally known as Saul of Tarsus wrote letters to the Romans and Corinthians? 
ANSWER: Saint  
Paul 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  4 of 9 
8A.  What Greek hero rescued Andromeda and beheaded the Gorgon Medusa? 
ANSWER:  
Perseus 
8B.  What Asian country was ruled for six centuries by the Khmer Empire and for four years by the 
Communist Khmer Rouge? 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Cambodia 
 [or Preahreacheanachakr  
Kampuchea 
] 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Franklin eats one egg on the first day of a month, two eggs 
on the second day, three eggs on the third day, and so forth. How many eggs does Franklin eat in the whole 
month of September? 
ANSWER:  
465 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If two distinct letters are selected from the alphabet, what is 
the probability that  
neither 
 is found in the word bankruptcy? Express your answer as a fraction in simplest 
form. 
ANSWER:  
24/65 
10A.  What instrument was played by jazz musicians Louis Armstrong and Miles Davis? 
ANSWER:  
trumpet 
10B.  What insect is known as \"papillon\" (POP-ee-yon) in French and Schmetterling in German? 
ANSWER:  
butterfly 
 [or  
butterflies 
] 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 14 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In a novel by this writer, the main character has her name changed to Mary by her racist boss and is 
abused by her mother’s boyfriend. This author took a verse from Paul Dunbar to be the title of her 
autobiography. She recited her poem “On the Pulse of Morning” at the 1993 inauguration of Bill Clinton. 
This author’s best known novel describes the racism she faced growing up in Stamps, Arkansas. For 10 
points, name this African-American author of  
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings 
. 
ANSWER: Maya  
Angelou 
 [or Marguerite Ann  
Johnson 
] 
052-13-90-14117 
2. Prior to an expedition, this man drew a line with his sword that was crossed by the Famous Thirteen. 
This man was accompanied on another expedition by the missionary Vicente de Valverde. That expedition 
led by this man captured a ruler during the Battle of Cajamarca (cah-hah-MAR-kuh) and killed that ruler 
after having the Ransom Room filled with gold. For 10 points, name this conquistador who overthrew 
Atahualpa (aa-tuh-WAL-puh) when he conquered the Inca empire. 
ANSWER: Francisco  
Pizarro 
023-13-90-14118 
3. The hydrophobic effect is driven by the net increase in this quantity when nonpolar molecules aggregate. 
Generally, this quantity is greater for the side of an equilibrium with more moles of gas molecules or more 
solvated ions. This quantity has the same units of the gas constant, and is multiplied by temperature, then 
subtracted from enthalpy, to determine Gibbs free energy. This quantity for the universe increases in all 
spontaneous processes. For 10 points, name this quantity measuring disorder of a system. 
ANSWER:  
entropy 
 [or  ] 
S 
190-13-90-14119 
4. In one film, this actor plays a character who idolizes Thomas Edison and teams with Finley and China 
Doll. He played Oscar Diggs, who is swept away in his balloon to a magical land where he confronts three 
witches. This actor played a scientist who works with an animal named Caesar to find a cure for 
Alzheimer’s in the film  
Rise of the Planet of the Apes. 
 For 10 points, name this man who played the title 
role in  
Oz the Great and Powerful 
 and Harry Osborn in the Spider-Man movies. 
ANSWER: James Edward  
Franco 
052-13-90-14120 
5. This man was inspired by his study of gall wasp reproduction to develop a 0 to 6 scale; his ranking on his 
own scale is affected by his affair with student Clyde Martin. Paul Gebhard normalized the data collected 
by this man to eliminate skews caused by over-relying on prisoners and prostitutes. For 10 points, name 
this Indiana University researcher who scandalized postwar America with his reports  
Sexual Behavior in 
the Human Male 
 and  
Sexual Behavior in the Human Female. 
ANSWER: Alfred  
Kinsey 
019-13-90-14121 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  6 of 9 
6. Despite a novelty song claiming it is Delaware, this state is home to the lowest highest point in the 
United States at Britton Hill. This state’s official state song refers to a river misspelled by songwriter 
Stephen Foster. It was named after a Spanish explorer landed there during the Easter season and it contains 
the southern portion of the Suwannee River. This state is home to the oldest city in the continental U.S., St. 
Augustine. For 10 points, name this state, the home of the Everglades. 
ANSWER:  
Florida 
052-13-90-14122 
7. This author wrote “Sacco and Vanzetti must not die” and “I am the Scottsboro boys” in his poem 
“America.” In another poem, this man addresses psychiatric patient Carl Solomon by saying “I’m with you 
in Rockland.” That poem also references the pagan god Moloch. This man wrote a poem after the death of 
his mother called “Kaddish.” His best known poem begins by saying he saw “the best minds of my 
generation destroyed by madness.” For 10 points, name this Beat poet who wrote “Howl.” 
ANSWER: (Irwin) Allen  
Ginsberg 
052-13-90-14123 
8. Carl Woese proposed that the first step of this process should be based on 16s RNA differences. In recent 
decades, this process has sought to eliminate paraphyletic groups, instead focusing on evolutionary 
relationships through the cladistic approach. This process now begins with three \"domains,\" including 
archaea and eukaryotes. For 10 points, identify this process which uses Linnean nomenclature and taxons 
such as kingdoms and orders to organize all forms of life. 
ANSWER: biological  
classification 
 of species 
019-13-90-14124 
9. The founder of the colony that became this state won the Battle of Bloody Marsh. After a Supreme Court 
case about this state, Andrew Jackson said “John Marshall has made his decision; now let him enforce it!” 
That 1832 case dealt with Indian lands and vacated the conviction of Samuel Worcester (WOO-ster). For 
10 points, name this state founded as a colony by James Oglethorpe as a haven for English debtors and a 
buffer state between British territory and Spanish Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Georgia 
052-13-90-14125 
10. In this play, a physician is said to have “tuberculosis of the spine,” a euphemism for his venereal 
disease. This play’s protagonist is blackmailed by the bank worker Nils Krogstad, who gives up the plot 
when he is reunited with Christine Linde. In this play’s final scene, a door slam punctuates the 
protagonist’s decision to leave her husband Torvald and their children. For 10 points, name this play about 
Nora Helmer written by Henrik Ibsen. 
ANSWER:  
A  Doll House 
 [or  
A  Doll’s House 
; or  
Et  Dukkehjem 
] 
014-13-90-14126 
11. The Hardinge Bridge was built over this geographical object. This geographical entity was 
mythologized as the wife of King Shantanu brought down to earth by Shiva's hair. It flows through the 
cities of Patna and Farakka. This river flows through Varanasi, where the ashes of the dead are thrown into 
it. The Padma is a distributary of this river, which meets the Yamuna at Allahabad and flows into the Bay 
of Bengal. For 10 points, name this sacred river of India. 
ANSWER:  
Ganges 
 River [or  
Ganga 
] 
080-13-90-14127 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  7 of 9 
12. For a matrix A, this thing is equal to the adjoint of A divided by the determinant of A. A function does 
not have one of them if it fails the horizontal line test. Variables have this kind of proportion if their 
product is constant. Trigonometric functions that have this property are prefixed with \"arc\". For a number 
a, it is negative a for addition and one over a for multiplication. For 10 points, identify this operation 
typically denoted with a superscript negative one. 
ANSWER:  
inverse 
 [or word forms] 
066-13-90-14128 
13. Coin tokens are included with the \"Guilds\" and \"Seaside\" expansions to this game. Another expansion 
to this game called \"Alchemy\" includes the use of potions. Each turn in this game is made up of three 
phases called action, buy, and clean-up. Players of this game use copper, silver, and gold to purchase 
estates, duchies, and provinces, which are each worth a certain number of victory points. For 10 points, 
name this deck building card game. 
ANSWER:  
Dominion 
023-13-90-14129 
14. This scientist created latitude and longitude and founded the discipline of geography. For his most 
famous achievement, he used the fact that sunlight only struck the bottom of a deep well at Syene on the 
summer solstice. A technique due to this scientist involves iteratively marking out multiples of primes, 
starting with two, until only prime numbers are left, and is known as his \"sieve\". For 10 points, identify this 
Greek scientist who was the first person to calculate the circumference of the Earth. 
ANSWER:  
Eratosthenes 
 [or  
beta 
] 
066-13-90-14130 
15. Working with one of these companies, John Jervis created the  
Stourbridge Lion. 
 Another of these 
companies survived the Panic of 1873 under Jay Gould's leadership. The ICC was created to regulate prices 
set by these companies. Another of these companies was financed by the \"Big Four,\" a group of 
philanthropists including Leland Stanford. For 10 points, the Union Pacific and Central Pacific were what 
kind of company that worked on a \"transcontinental\" transport system? 
ANSWER:  
railroad 
 companies [or  
railway 
 companies] 
080-13-90-14131 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 14 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This is the most common disease that can be diagnosed with the nuchal translucency test. People with 
this disease show small aggregates of tissue on the iris called Brushfield spots, and this disease can be 
caused by a Robertsonian translocation. People with this disease often suffer from acute lymphocytic 
leukemia and have short stature, a flattened nasal bridge, small chin, and an IQ around 50. For 10 points, 
name this common genetic disease caused by trisomy of chromosome 21. 
ANSWER:  
Down 
 syndrome 
048-13-90-14132 
2. It’s not Attorney General, but this was the position held by the man who said “Now he belongs to the 
ages” after Abraham Lincoln was killed. Andrew Johnson’s attempt to remove a man in this post violated 
the Tenure of Office Act and led to his impeachment. Held by Edwin Stanton and first held by Henry 
Knox, it was until 1947 third in the line of succession to the presidency. For 10 points, name this Cabinet 
position supplanted by the Secretary of Defense, which controlled military affairs. 
ANSWER: Secretary of  
War 
052-13-90-14133 
3. The most widely used classification system for this substance is a taxonomy published by the USDA. 
Pedologists study this substance. During an earthquake, this substance can lose stability by a process 
known as liqeufaction. Nutrients can be leached from this substance and redeposited in lower horizons by 
precipitation. This substance can be classified based on the amount of silt, sand, and clay. For 10 points, 
identify this layer of finely ground particles that overlays bedrock and is colloquially known as dirt. 
ANSWER:  
soil 
 [or  
regolith 
; prompt on  
dirt 
 until it is read] 
066-13-90-14134 
4. During this battle, a detachment of Phocians were surprised by the arrival of troops led by Hydarnes. 
Before this battle, a comment about the arrows of the other side led Dienekes to say that this battle would 
be fought in the shade. Ephialtes betrayed the losing side of this battle by showing the other side a flanking 
mountain path. For 10 points, name this pyrrhic victory for the Persians in which their advance in Greece 
was delayed in a narrow pass by troops under the Spartan king Leonidas. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Thermopylae 
023-13-90-14135 
5. One character in this novel notes the shipment of fifty boxes of earth to a chapel in Carfax. Children in 
this novel go missing after the appearance of a “Bloofer Lady.” A captain’s log tells of strange events that 
happen on the ship  
Demeter 
.With the sacrifice of Quincey and the help of van Helsing, the title creature, 
who was visited by real estate agent Jonathan Harker, is defeated. For 10 points, name this epistolary novel 
about a vampire, written by Bram Stoker. 
ANSWER:  
Dracula 
140-13-90-14136 
What author discussed the “master-slave dialectic” in  
Phenomenology of Spirit 
? 
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich  
Hegel 
This is a calculation question. In a circle of radius 13, a chord of length 24 is drawn. How far from the 
center of the circle is the midpoint of the chord? 
ANSWER:  
5 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     14     Page  9 of 9 
