National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 19 
Tossups 
1. A so-called bulk or second variety of this property exists, but is unimportant in the incompressible case. 
This property can decrease over time in response to applied shear, a phenomenon known as thixotropy. 
This quantity appears multiplying the axial length and volumentric flow rate in the usual form of 
Poiseuille's equation. The effects of this property dominate at low Reynolds' numbers as this quantity is the 
denominator of the Reynolds number. This quantity appears as the constant of proportionality between the 
sheer stress and perpendicular velocity gradient for a Newtonian fluid. This property increases with 
temperature for gases but decreases for liquids; relatedly, for a superfluid below the lambda point, this 
property has a value of zero. For 10 points, name this measure of a fluid's internal resistance to flow. 
ANSWER:  
viscosity 
003-09-12-19102 
2. One figure in this painting wears a hat with red and white triangles and a necklace of beads with a cross. 
A face can be seen in front of a church at the top of this painting. A line connects the eyes of the two largest 
figures in this painting, one of whom feeds a flower to the other. Other figures in this work include a 
woman milking a goat and a man with a scythe next to a woman who, like two of the houses in this 
painting, is upside-down. The two largest figures in this work are a green man and a goat that loom over 
much of the canvass, which may depict the town of Vitebsk, Belarus. For 10 points, name this painting by 
Marc Chagall. 
ANSWER:  
I and the Village 
024-09-12-19103 
3. Miguel Landivar spread rumors that this figure was an escaped convict to support Agostino Mainardi, 
who accused this person of heresy. This person had a vision of God telling him \"I will be propitious to you 
at Rome\" before he experienced an awakening while praying in a cave near Manresa. This mentor of Peter 
Faber and Diego Lainez expressed his belief that obedience was the pre-eminent virtue in his \"Letter on 
Obedience.\" Francis Xavier was a follower of this leader, who created a program of prayer and 
contemplation divided into four weeks in his  
Spiritual Exercises 
. For 10 points, name this founder of the 
Jesuits, a Spanish saint from Loyola. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Ignatius 
 of Loyola 
004-09-12-19104 
4. A cascading Harry Bertoia sculpture falls from the oculus of one building constructed by this architect, 
which contains an aluminum spire atop a windowless brick cylinder surrounded by a moat. He placed a 
green \"oval\" between that structure and a nearby auditorium that he also designed. He designed a thin-shell 
roof over a \"head house\" in a structure that used red carpet in tube-shaped departure-arrival corridors. This 
architect of the MIT Chapel, Kresge Auditorium, and TWA terminal at JFK also designed a structure based 
on a catenary curve, which overlooks the Mississippi River. For 10 points, name this Finnish architect who 
designed the Gateway Arch. 
ANSWER:  
Eero Saarinen 
 [prompt on  
Saarinen 
; prompt on  
E. Saarinen 
; do not accept \"Eliel Saarinen\"] 
020-09-12-19105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  1 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. Strabo describes how an expedition of this people under Brennus supposedly plundered cursed gold from 
Delphi which was later inherited by Marcus Junius Brutus, after which they settled a namesake region of 
north central Turkey. An empire named after this people was founded by Postumus and conquered by the 
Emperor Aurelian in 274 AD. Members of this variant of the La Tene culture killed 46 centurions at 
Cergovia before being defeated at the Siege of Alesia while under the leadership of Vercingetorix. For 10 
points, name this group of people whose defeat was narrated in a series of namesake commentaries written 
by Julius Caesar 
ANSWER:  
Gauls 
059-09-12-19106 
6. In a monologue, this character declares \"deeper than did ever plummet sound / I'll drown my book.\" This 
character accepts responsibility for a servant by saying \"this thing of darkness / I acknowledge mine\" in a 
speech revealing his true identity. That servant had earlier complained that this character \"taught me 
language, and my profit on't / Is, I know how to curse.\" Stephano and Trinculo plot against this character, 
but are foiled by a being this character freed from a cloven pine. This character says \"We are such stuff / As 
dreams are made on, and our little life / Is rounded with a sleep\" in a speech that begins \"Our revels are 
now ended.\" For 10 points, name this character who allows Ferdinand to marry his daughter Miranda, a 
former Duke of Milan who uses magic to control Ariel and Caliban in Shakespeare's  
The Tempest 
. 
ANSWER:  
Prospero 
062-09-12-19107 
7. In one myth, this deity's mother fasted for a year so he could be born, but he did not assume his present 
form until Shani looked at him. This deity slashed the face of the moon after it laughed at him for using a 
serpent to bandage up his sweet-filled stomach. In similar myths, this figure was consoled by Narada, 
became the commander of the celestial armies, and outsmarted his brother Skanda in a contest to 
circumnavigate the world three times. This figure did not allow Shiva to enter his house, and so Shiva 
decapitated him. For 10 points, name this remover of obstacles in Hinduism, a god whose decapitated head 
was replaced by that of an elephant. 
ANSWER:  
Ganesh 
a [or  
Ganapati 
; or  
Vinayaka 
; or  
Pillaiyar 
; or  
Vighnesha 
; or  
Vighneshvara 
] 
064-09-12-19108 
8. In his final years, this composer completed his Opus 73, a set of seven \"moods\" for piano that includes 
the pieces \"Homage to Chopin\" and \"Night Ride.\" This composer adapted the melody of the halling for 
many of the twenty-five folksongs and dances that make up his Opus 17. Simon Barere died while 
performing this composer's only piano concerto, which imitates the beginning of Schumann's piano 
concerto and is in A minor. This composer included his works \"Arietta,\" \"March of the Dwarfs,\" and 
\"Wedding Day at Troldhaugen, in his collection of sixty-six short  
Lyric pieces 
. This composer depicted the 
rising of the sun over the Sahara desert in \"Morning Mood,\" part of his incidental music to  
Peer Gynt 
. For 
10 points, name this composer of \"In the Hall of the Mountain King,\" a Romantic composer from Norway. 
ANSWER: Edvard  
Grieg 
004-09-12-19109 
9. This quantity is equal to the molar mass times the difference in specific heat between a constant pressure 
and constant volume process. The specific heat capacity of a crystal can be approximated by three times 
this quantity, divided by the molar mass, according to the Dulong-Petit Law. It is equivalent to the product 
of Avogadro’s number and the Boltzmann constant, and equals 8.314 joules per mole Kelvin. It is 
multiplied by temperature in the Arrhenius equation, the Nernst equation, and the equation that describes its 
namesake fluids. For 10 points, what fundamental constant symbolized R is used to unify such equations as 
Charles' Law, Gay-Lussac's Law, and Boyle's Law? 
ANSWER: ideal  
gas constant 
 [or universal  
gas constant 
; prompt on   before mentioned] 
R 
034-09-12-19110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  2 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. One person nominated by this group was known for his longtime feud with Secretary of the Navy 
Gideon Welles. That man was John P. Hale. The political cartoon \"Shooting the Christmas Turkey\" shows 
another candidate from this party as a fox grabbing the turkey while two candidates from other parties 
bicker. This group's slogan was coined by Salmon Chase and they nominated one candidate at Lafayette 
Square, Buffalo. Conscience Whigs and Barnburners were the major factions of this group. In 1848, they 
nominated Martin Van Buren for the presidency. For 10 points, name this 19th century American political 
party that opposed the expansion of slavery. 
ANSWER:  
Free Soil 
 Party 
064-09-12-19111 
11. A 1931 conflict regarding this river dealt with the construction of a new toll bridge, which angered 
Governor Ross Sterling. Forks in this river include Prairie Dog Town Fork. General Lucius D. Clay 
managed the construction of the Denison Dam on this river. This river was once jammed by a collection of 
fallen trees running over 150 miles until Captain Henry Miller Shreve cleared the “Great Raft” jamming 
this river and its distributary, the Atchafalaya, in Louisiana. While also flowing through Arkansas, it once 
separated U.S. and Spanish territory as declared in the Adams-Onis Treaty. For 10 points, name this 
colorfully named river, a tributary of the Mississippi, which forms the boundary between Texas and 
Oklahoma. 
ANSWER:  
Red 
 River 
052-09-12-19112 
12. One story by this author is punctuated by the sound of corks popping out of bottles placed next to a fire, 
and ends with Crofton approving a poem recited by Joe Hynes. In another story by this author, Maria loses 
a plum cake on a tram and sings \"I Dreamt That I Dwelt in Marble Halls\" after touching a \"soft wet 
substance\" while blindfolded. This author described the sudden revelations that strike many of his 
characters as \"epiphanies.\" In another of this author's stories, Bartell D'Arcy's song \"The Lass of Aughrim\" 
causes the protagonist's wife Gretta to remember her young lover Michael Furey. For 10 points, name this 
author of \"Clay,\" \"Ivy Day in the Committee Room,\" and \"The Dead,\" which appear in his collection  
Dubliners 
. 
ANSWER: James  
Joyce 
015-09-12-19113 
13. Thirty brief interludes about this figure, some of which are meetings with Michele Besso, appear in a 
book of this man's \"Dreams\" by Alan Lightman. John Statchel and Martin Klein edited several volumes of 
this man's writings for his namesake \"Papers Project.\" Along with Bertrand Russel, this man drafted a 
manifesto that predicated the Pugwash Conferences and calls for people to \"Remember [their] humanity, 
and forget the rest\" to avert the \"utter disaster\" of nuclear war. Another document written by this man and 
Leo Szilard called on FDR to begin work on an atomic bomb before Nazi Germany could. For 10 points, 
name this former patent clerk and anti-nuclear activist, a legendarily intelligent German physicist who 
developed the theory of relativity. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Einstein 
003-09-12-19114 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  3 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. The failed Pombo Amendment aimed to \"improve deterrence\" of this practice. The Page Act allowed 
searches of ships if this activity was suspected. A 1986 act of Congress gave amnesty to people who had 
been doing it since 1982. California's Proposition 187 prohibited medical care to people engaging in this 
activity, which was first defined by the Chinese Exclusion Act. The bracero program was ended partly 
because there was no good way to separate the braceros from individuals engaging in this activity. For 10 
points, name this activity protested by the Minutemen, which is the undocumented entry of foreign 
nationals into the United States. 
ANSWER:  
illegal immigration 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
003-09-12-19115 
15. This author described his longtime inability to write about his adopted home of California in the 
introduction to \"Christ Walked Down Market Street.\" In one of his novels, the hitman Albert Cluveau is 
hired to kill the black political leader Ned; in another novel by this author, the gift of a radio allows the 
teacher Grant Wiggins to connect with his student, who has been compared to a hog by his attorney. He 
claimed that classical music cannot describe the Louisiana State Penitentiary as well as the blues in his 
collection  
Mozart and Leadbelly 
, and wrote about a character who leads a march to Bayonne to protest a 
segregated water fountain at the age of one hundred and ten. For 10 points, name this author who wrote 
about the falsely convicted Jefferson in his tales of black life in Louisiana, which include  
The 
Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman 
 and  
A Lesson Before Dying. 
ANSWER: Ernest James  
Gaines 
019-09-12-19116 
16. This work notes that precious metals such as gold and silver do not rot, thus they can be used in 
exchange for goods that do. This work supports the ability for men to “impound” as much as can be reaped 
from his labor in its section “Of Property.” Published with a work that refutes every point in Filmer’s  
Patriarcha 
, this work claims that by overstepping its power, a state voids the social contract. Stating that 
the state of nature “however free,” is “full of continual dangers,” for 10 points, name this influential work 
of political philosophy by John Locke. 
ANSWER: “ 
Second Treatise of Government 
” [prompt on  
Two Treatises of Government 
, and cut off 
anyone who tries to supply the full title; accept \" 
Second Treatise on Government 
\"; accept descriptive 
answers] 
020-09-12-19117 
17. In 1947, political dissidents in this nation were massacred in what is known as the 228 incident. 
European explorers encountered the Ami and Atayal indigenous tribes while settling this modern nation 
and the western portion of this nation contains the strategically important Pescadores Islands. This nation 
was the home to the Dutch Fort Zeelandia, although it was eventually captured following a long siege led 
by Koxinga. Later, this nation became one of the Asian Economic Tigers and during the Cold War it was 
controlled tightly by the KMT party. For 10 points, name this island nation once known as Formosa. 
ANSWER:  
Taiwan 
 [or  
Formosa 
 early] 
064-09-12-19118 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  4 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. One of this novel's narrators is infuriated at the sound of an adze going \"one lick less,\" and imagines 
protecting his mother by climbing up a hill and throwing rocks at other people's faces. At the end of this 
novel, another character repeats the words \"Yes yes yes yes yes\" while being taken to an insane asylum for 
setting fire to Gillespie's barn. A carpenter in this novel has cement poured on his broken leg at Mottson 
after his father trades for a new team of mules from Flem Snopes. The central family of this novel includes 
the illegitimate son of Reverend Whitfield, a boy who narrates a chapter consisting of the sentence \"My 
mother is a fish,\" and a father who finally procures false teeth after arriving in Jefferson. For 10 points, 
name this novel about Vardaman, Dewey Dell, Cash, Darl, and Anse Bundren's journey to bury their 
matriarch Addie, written by William Faulkner. 
ANSWER:  
As I Lay Dying 
024-09-12-19119 
19. Two models of this action are the zipper and sinking hypotheses. Lactoferrin stimulates this activity and 
sometimes can be found in an organelle resulting from this. C3b is one element that can cause opsonization 
to better allow for this process to occur. Like related processes, it is triggered by Fc receptors. Microglia, 
neutrophils and monocytes are cells that perform this action. Some protists use this process to acquire food, 
but its also used as immune response against bacteria. For 10 points, name this form of endocytosis where a 
cell engulfs a particle or other cell. 
ANSWER:  
phagocytosis 
001-09-12-19120 
20. The Repertory Grid is a theory of this phenomenon which was devised by George Kelly and uses factor 
analysis to determine it. One person to study this posited the “lexical hypothesis” which created broad 
classifications of cardinal, central, and secondary traits. Gordon Allport was an early researcher of \"trait 
theory\" in this field, and Raymond Cattell developed a 16 factor model of it. One model of this 
phenomenon was promulgated by Lewis Goldberg, is remembered with the OCEAN mnemonic, and 
includes the divisions Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. Those 
are known as the Big Five factors of this concept. For 10 points, name this psychological phenomenon 
which is measured by a Minnesota Multiphasic Inventory. 
ANSWER:  
personality 
015-09-12-19121 
21. In the early fifteenth century, supporters of the Count of Armagnac fought a civil war against supporters 
of the ruler of this territory. The Cistercian order was founded in this territory's Cîteaux monastery. Claus 
Sluter sculpted the  
Well of Moses 
 for this territory's monastery Charteuse de Champmol. The monastery of 
Cluny was founded in this territory. The wars named for this territory effectively ended after the Battle of 
Nancy, which resulted in the death of this region's ruler Charles the Bold. For 10 points, name this French 
territory ruled by Philip the Good, whose capital was Dijon. 
ANSWER: Duchy of  
Burgundy 
004-09-12-19122 
22. In this novel, the grocer Greff hangs himself in an ingenious manner that involves a counterweight of 
potatoes and a cacophony of noise. The protagonist is arrested after Gottfried von Vittlar's testimony, and 
one character in this novel dies because he falls in love with a ship's figurehead named Niobe. Another 
character dies by choking when he swallows a party pin. The protagonist's lovers include Sister Dorothea, 
whose severed finger he later finds, and Maria, who gives birth to his son Kurt. The protagonist of this 
novel can shatter glass with his voice and stops growing at the age of three. For 10 points, name this novel 
about Oskar Matzerath [MAHT-zer-aht] by Günter Grass. 
ANSWER:  
The  Tin Drum 
 [or  
Die  Blechtrommel 
] 
024-09-12-19123 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  5 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
23. Sufferers of this disease are unable to produce hypothiocyanate, and eighty percent of patients with this 
disease eventually harbor  
P. aeruginosa 
 by age 18. Sufferers also have congenital absence of the vas 
deferens, and screening for this disease involves measuring an elevated level of immunoreactive 
trypsinogen followed by a sweat test. The gene mutated in this disease produces an functional protein that 
does not fold perfectly due to a delta-508 deletion; that gene is a chloride channel. For 10 points, name this 
genetic disease which results in the buildup of thick mucus in the lungs. 
ANSWER:  
cystic fibrosis 
 [or  
CF 
] 
048-09-12-19124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  6 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 19 
Bonuses 
1. Inverting this property is the same as reversing all spatial coordinates in a system and, for many systems, 
is the same as replacing particles with their corresponding anti-particles. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this property that was thus long considered to comprise a fundamental symmetry along with 
charge conjugation, or C. 
ANSWER: spatial  
parity 
 [prompt on  ] 
P 
[10] The first violation of CP symmetry was detected in the kayon decays because kayons contain this 
quark. Named because it imparts to particles abnormally long lifetimes, it comprises the second generation 
along with the charm quark. 
ANSWER: the  trange quark 
s 
[10] Sakharov included CP violation as one of the three conditions for primordial production of these 
subatomic particles. They are composed of three quarks and include the proton and neutron. 
ANSWER:  
baryon 
s 
064-09-12-19201 
2. This collection’s penultimate work is an epic poem supposedly written by Mr. Jonathan Swift Somers 
which was planned for twenty four books but ends abruptly with the phrase “Bent on the.” For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this collection which includes the poems “Professor Newcomer,” “Indignation Jones,” and 
“Sexsmith the Dentist.” 
ANSWER:  
Spoon River Anthology 
[10]  
Spoon River Anthology 
 was written by this American poet who also wrote a biography of Vachel 
Lindsay. 
ANSWER: Edgar Lee  
Masters 
[10] This first poem of  
Spoon River 
 asks “Where are Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom and Charley” and 
concludes that they are “sleeping, sleeping, sleeping” at the title location. 
ANSWER: “The  
Hill 
” 
015-09-12-19202 
3. One example of these structures is M87. They comprise the convergent, left branch of the Hubble tuning 
fork. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of galaxy that has no spiral structure and looks smooth through a telescope. 
ANSWER:  
elliptical 
 galaxies 
[10] The Faber-Jackson relation for elliptical galaxies relates the velocity dispersion to this measure of the 
energy radiated per unit time. 
ANSWER: the  
luminosity 
 [prompt on  ] 
L 
[10] The velocity dispersion can also be used to determine the mass of an elliptical galaxy by using this 
theorem which for self-gravitating bodies states that the total kinetic energy is half the gravitational 
potential energy. 
ANSWER: the  
virial 
 theorem 
001-09-12-19203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  7 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. This painting was exhibited along with its artist's  
Le Pont de L’Europe 
 at the third Impressionist 
exhibition. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1877 painting that portrays an elegantly dressed couple carrying an umbrella on a sidewalk 
near the Place de Dublin, one of the new boulevards designed by Baron Haussmann. 
ANSWER:  
Paris  Street,  Rainy Day 
 [or  
Paris : A  Rainy Day 
; or  
Paris  Street,  Rainy Weather 
; or  
Rue de  
Paris temps de pluie ,  
; or  
La  Place de l'Europe, temps de pluie 
] 
[10] The painter of  
Paris Street, Rainy Day 
, Gustave Caillebotte, is depicted wearing a straw hat in the 
bottom right of  
The Luncheon of the Boating Party 
, a canvas by this artist of  
Girl with a Watering Can 
. 
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste  
Renoir 
[10] Caillebotte paid the rent for Claude Monet's Paris studio, but many of Monet's best-known works, such 
as his  
Lily Pads 
 and  
Haystacks 
 series, were executed at his home in this French town. 
ANSWER:  
Giverny 
 (ZHEE-vair-nee) 
004-09-12-19204 
5. In this process, aconitase dehydrates and rehydrates the namesake molecule to produce an isomer of it. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this process whose intermediates include oxaloacetate and malate, the latter of which is 
converted to fumarate using FAD. 
ANSWER:  
citric acid 
 cycle [or  
Krebs 
 cycle; or  
TCA 
 cycle] 
[10] This molecule formed from pyruvate enters the Krebs cycle by combining with oxaloacetate to 
produce citrate. 
ANSWER:  
acetyl CoA 
 [or  
acetyl coenzyme A 
] 
[10] If oxaloacetate is not available to react with it, then acetyl CoA enters pathways that result in ketosis 
and acidosis, conditions common in sufferers of this disease in which the body cannot regulate its blood 
sugar levels. 
ANSWER:  
diabetes 
032-09-12-19205 
6. A 1790s US insurrection was caused by an unpopular excise tax. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name that rebellion in Western Pennsylvania, which was named for a certain beverage. 
ANSWER:  
Whiskey 
 Rebellion 
[10] Washington put down the rebellion with the aid of this man, who operated in the southern theater of 
the Revolutionary War. His nickname came from his competent equestrian skills. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Lee 
 III [or \"Lighthorse Harry\"  
Lee 
] 
[10] The rebellion started after shots were fired at this Pennsylvania tax collector while he was leading a 
US marshal through the area. 
ANSWER: John  
Neville 
064-09-12-19206 
7. This character's lover describes her as \"a rebel from the waist down.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this lover of Winston Smith in George Orwell's  
1984 
. 
ANSWER:  
Julia 
[10] In  
1984 
, Oceania is a dictatorship ruled by this possibly mythical founder of the Party, who is opposed 
by Emmanuel Goldstein. Posters throughout Oceania warn that he \"is watching you.\" 
ANSWER:  
Big Brother 
[10] Julia belongs to this youth organization, whose members wear red sashes around their waists 
symbolizing their chastity, and report people who have intercourse to Big Brother. 
ANSWER: Junior  
Anti-Sex League 
059-09-12-19207 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  8 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Along with Jean-Pierre Gorin, this man founded the Dziga Vertov group which paid homage to the great 
Russian director. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French filmmaker whose films include a dystopian film noir about secret agent Lemmy 
Caution entitled  
Alphaville 
, a surrealistic 1987 version of  
King Lear 
, and a film about a playwright’s 
estrangement from his Brigitte Bardot-played wife,  
Contempt 
. 
ANSWER: Jean-Luc  
Godard 
[10] Godard's most important film is this 1960 movie starring Jean-Paul Belmondo as a criminal who 
idolizes Humphrey Bogart and is killed after being betrayed by his American girlfriend Patricia. 
ANSWER:  
Breathless 
 [or  
A  bout de soufflé 
] 
[10] Godard was a director from the New Wave film movement of the late 1950s and 1960s, which took 
place in this country, and included such directors as Francois Truffaut and Alain Resnais. 
ANSWER:  
France 
 [or  
French Republic 
; or  
République française 
] 
052-09-12-19208 
9. For 10 points each, answer the following about wedding gifts that really should have been sent back. 
[10] Hephaestus gave this cursed object as a wedding gift to Cadmus's wife. Later, it was used to bribe 
Eriphyle into convincing her husband Amphiaraus to go to war against Thebes. 
ANSWER:  
necklace of Harmonia 
 [or equivalents] 
[10] This daughter of King Creon of Corinth perished along with her father after trying on a cursed dress 
given as a wedding gift by Medea, the former wife of Jason. 
ANSWER:  
Glauce 
 [or  
Creusa 
] 
[10] Eschewing the gifts for the bride and groom, Eris rolled this object, marked \"For the Fairest,\" into the 
wedding of Peleus and Thetis. Aphrodite, Athena, and Hera all laid claim to it. 
ANSWER: golden  
apple of discord 
 [prompt on  
apple 
; prompt on  
golden apple 
] 
003-09-12-19209 
10. In the late eighteenth century, a controversy over this belief arose between Friedrich Jacobi and Moses 
Mendelssohn. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this belief which equates God with the universe. Unlike theism, it denies that a personal God 
who transcends the world exists. 
ANSWER:  
pantheism 
[10] This seventeenth century Dutch philosopher defended pantheism in his  
Ethics 
. 
ANSWER: Baruch  
Spinoza 
[10] Charles Hartshorne and Alfred North Whitehead supported this alternative to pantheism, which 
believes that God not only interpenetrates all of Nature but also transcends it. 
ANSWER:  
panentheism 
004-09-12-19210 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  9 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. In 2005 a group of MIT students demonstrated that this device was theoretically possible, but only if it 
used an array of flat mirrors instead of a giant parabolic mirror. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ancient device that, according to legend, was used to burn an invading Roman fleet. It was 
probably just an exaggeration made up by a Byzantine writer, the real work being done by arrows tipped 
with Greek fire. 
ANSWER: Archimedes's  
death ray 
[10] Archimedes's death ray, or the more likely substitute of arrows and Greek fire, was used during the 
Roman siege of Syracuse, a city on this island that had earlier been the target of a disastrous Greek 
\"expedition.\" 
ANSWER:  
Sicily 
[10] The siege of Syracuse began after a power struggle resulting from the death of this ninety-year old 
tyrant, who had managed to keep Syracuse out of the First Punic War by signing a 263 BC treaty with 
Rome. 
ANSWER:  
Hiero II 
n   [prompt on  
Hiero 
n] 
003-09-12-19211 
12. He worked with Lindahl and Bowen on a set of criteria important to welfare economics and applied Le 
Chatelier's principle of chemical equilibrium to economics . For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who influenced whole generations of economists with his textbook  
Economics: An 
Introductory Analysis 
. 
ANSWER: Paul Anthony  
Samuelson 
[10] Paul Samuelson developed much of the theory of this type of good, which is non-excludable and 
non-rivalrous. Examples include street signs and air. 
ANSWER:  
public 
 goods 
[10] Much of Samuelson's textbook consists of versions of this man's theories. He argued for government 
intervention into the economy in his landmark  
The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money 
. 
ANSWER: John Maynard  
Keynes 
059-09-12-19212 
13. This novel was originally published as  
Number 44 
, although it was renamed and heavily edited by 
Albert Bigelow Paine. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this book in which Satan visits Eseldorf and destroys Theodor’s faith in humanity. 
ANSWER:  
The  Mysterious Stranger 
[10] This other book by Mark Twain mocks the belief in innate racial superiority by describing a murder 
committed by Tom Chambers, a nearly white slave who was switched at birth with the son of Judge 
Driscoll. 
ANSWER:  
Pudd’nhead Wilson 
[10] In  
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer 
, this character announces his intent to slit the Widow Douglas’ 
nostrils for having him horsewhipped. Muff Potter was nearly hanged for the murder of Dr. Robinson, a 
crime for which this character was actually responsible. 
ANSWER: Injun  
Joe 
030-09-12-19213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  10 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. This battle took place three years after the massacre of Arthur St. Clair’s army by the forces of Little 
Turtle. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1794 victory for Anthony Wayne that took place in Northern Ohio. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Fallen Timbers 
[10] The Battle of Fallen Timbers led to the signing of this 1795 treaty that saw Native American leaders 
cede territory in present day Michigan, Ohio, and Illinois. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Greenville 
[10] 27 years after the Battle of Fallen Timbers, this 1811 battle saw forces of Tenskwatawa defeated by 
William Henry Harrison during Tecumseh’s War. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Tippecanoe 
064-09-12-19214 
15. The targets of these events had to wear a  
sanbenito 
 and carry a taper of yellow wax. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these public ceremonies performed by the Spanish Inquisition, in which accused heretics who 
refused to confess were burned alive. 
ANSWER:  
auto-da-fé 
 [or  
autos-da-fé 
; or  
act of faith 
; or  
acts of faith 
] 
[10] One target of the Spanish Inquisition was this group of Spanish and Portuguese Jews, who pretended 
to convert to Christianity in order to save their lives but secretly practiced Judaism. This group's name 
originated as a Spanish epithet meaning \"swine.\" 
ANSWER:  
marrano 
s 
[10] This Dominican friar staged the LaGuardia trial to convince Ferdinand and Isabella to expel the Jews 
from Spain. His cruelty against marranos as the first head of the Spanish Inquisition may have stemmed 
from his grandmother's status as a Jewish convert. 
ANSWER: Tomas de  
Torquemada 
004-09-12-19215 
16. One work by this man shows the subject holding out his right hand while he holds the title object in his 
left hand. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this \"Elder\" Greek sculptor of the  
Discophoros 
 and the  
Doryphorus 
 or  
Spear-Bearer 
. 
ANSWER:  
Polykleitos 
[10]  
Discophoros 
 should not be confused with  
Discobolus 
, a sculpture of a man preparing to throw a 
discus, which was produced by this other Greek sculptor. 
ANSWER:  
Myron 
[10] Polykleitos's  
Doryphorus 
 exemplifies the aesthetic theory laid out in his  
Kanon 
, central to which is 
this type of pose in which a figure rests his weight on one leg so that the shoulders and hips are twisted 
relative to each other. 
ANSWER:  
contrapposto 
064-09-12-19216 
17. Many chemical compounds possess hydrophobic and hydrophilic regions. For 10 points each: 
[10] Detergents and shampoos contain these compounds that lower the surface tension of a liquid. 
ANSWER:  
surfactant 
s 
[10] Surfactants form these spherical structures that trap hydrophobic material in the interior and surround 
it with the hydrophilic region of the surfactant, where it can then be washed away with water. 
ANSWER:  
micelle 
s 
[10] These other spherical lipid structures are similar to micelles except they are a bilayer. They are often 
used for transfections and drug delivery. 
ANSWER:  
liposome 
s 
064-09-12-19217 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  11 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. This nation contains the eastern portion of the Zagros mountains. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this nation that also contains the large cities of Esfahan, Tabriz, and Tehran. 
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of  
Iran 
[10] This other mountain range in Iran contains Mount Damavand and runs across northern Iran. 
ANSWER:  
Alborz 
 mountains 
[10] The Alborz mountains skirt the shore of this sea that indents northern Iran. Its northern end borders 
Russia. 
ANSWER: the  
Caspian 
 Sea 
026-09-12-19218 
19. One example of these is the heat equation. Separable ones can be solved using separation of variables. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this equations that involve an unknown function and its derivatives. They can be which can be 
ordinary or partial. 
ANSWER:  
differential equation 
s [accept  
DE 
s; accept ordinary  
differential equation 
s or O 
DE 
s; accept 
partial  
differential equation 
s or P 
DE 
s)] 
[10] Differential equations can be classified by this value, dictated by the highest derivative that appears in 
the reduced equation. For a polynomial, it is equal to the power of the highest-degree non-zero term. 
ANSWER: the  
order 
[10] This function is the solution y of x of the separable, first-order differential equation y-prime plus y 
equals 0. 
ANSWER: the  
negative exponential 
 function (or  
decay 
ing  
exponential 
; accept answers of the form 
\"constant times   to the  
e minus 
 x\"; prompt on  
exponential 
) 
059-09-12-19219 
20. Commentaries on this book have included those written by Ho-shang Kung and Wang Pi. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this text that introduced the concept of ziran, or naturalness, which was allegedly written for the 
border guard Yin Xi. 
ANSWER:  
Tao Te Ching 
 [or  
Lao Tzu 
] 
[10] This man probably wrote the  
Tao Te Ching 
, which is sometimes instead named after him, and he is an 
important figure in Taoism. 
ANSWER:  
Lao Tzu 
 [or  
Laozi 
] 
[10] This Taoist philosopher is often quoted by anarchists and evolutionists alike, once presumed to know 
what fish enjoy, and experienced the oft-written about \"Butterfly Dream.\" 
ANSWER:  
Zhuangzhi 
 [or  
Chuang Tsu 
; or Master  
Chuang 
] 
023-09-12-19220 
21. The protagonist of this novel falls in love with Catherine Maheu, a girl who dies of suffocation after a 
mine accident. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel about Etienne Lantier, the thirteenth in the Rougon-Macquart series. 
ANSWER:  
Germinal 
[10] This author of  
Nana 
 and  
Germinal 
 wrote about a woman who plots with Laurent to kill her husband 
and cousin Camille in  
Therese Raquin 
. 
ANSWER: Emile  
Zola 
[10] This Zola novel sees Claude Lantier become obsessed with creating a perfect work of art and his 
eventual suicide despite the best efforts of his wife, Christine Hallegrain. 
ANSWER:  
The  Masterpiece 
040-09-12-19221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 19     Page  12 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
