VHSL States 2011 
Round 6 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Early work on this structure was supervised by Bishop Gundulf. Six ravens with clipped wings are kept 
here to ensure the safety of this building's country. In 1674, two skeletons believed to be those of princes 
were found in this structure. This building is guarded by yeomen in red and gold uniforms known as the 
Beefeaters. For 10 points, name this castle that houses the Crown Jewels of England, and which is where 
Thomas More and Sir Walter Raleigh were held before their execution. 
ANSWER:  
Tower of London 
080-11-25-06101 
2. One method of developing a landscape named for these objects is to employ the random midpoint 
displacement algorithm. One of their original developers applied them to modeling the coastline of Britain. 
They are characterized by having a topological dimension less than their Hausdorff dimension, and some of 
them are named for Moore, Julia, and Koch. They exhibit some form of self-similarity. One of the most 
famous examples of these involves removing the central equilateral triangle from each equilateral triangle 
in a figure repeatedly, named the Serpinski triangle. For 10 points, name these repeating geometric figures 
developed by Benoit Mandelbrot. 
ANSWER:  
fractals 
048-11-25-06102 
3. The title character of one play by this writer says, \"tomorrow we shall make something strong of this 
sorrow,\" after being disillusioned by the corruption of mayoral Candidate Wally O'Hara. That work is  
The 
Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window 
. In another play by this author, Mrs. Johnson's quoting of Booker T. 
Washington prompts Lena to call him a \"fool.\" In that play, Karl Lindner tries to bribe the Younger family 
to stop them from moving into a white neighborhood in Chicago. For 10 points, name this writer of  
To Be 
Young, Gifted, and Black 
 and  
A Raisin in the Sun 
. 
ANSWER: Lorraine  
Hansberry 
030-11-25-06103 
4. Two scientists with this name derived a version of the Clausius-Mossotti formula which relates refractive 
index to polarizability. Another scientist with this name wrote a paper about his namesake \"attractor\" and 
gave one of the first descriptions of chaos theory. Another scientist with this name wrote “On Aggression” 
and performed an experiment in which he imprinted newborn geese upon himself. A physicist with this 
name derived a series of transforms within Minkowski space which take one relativistic reference frame to 
another. For 10 points, give the common last name of these scientists, with first names Ludvig, Konrad, and 
Hendrik. 
ANSWER:  
Lorenz 
 [or  
Lorentz 
] 
048-11-25-06104 
5. This man rejected Kant’s “intuitionism” in favor of empirical observation in one work. He noted that it 
was “better to be Socrates dissatisfied than a fool satisfied” in arguing for the superiority of intellectual 
pleasures, like reading Wordsworth, over physical pleasures. This author of  
A System of Logic 
 argued that 
the government should only take away a man’s rights in order to prevent harm to another person in his  
On 
Liberty 
. He was influenced by the earlier work of Jeremy Bentham in formulating the “greatest-happiness 
principle.” For 10 points, name this British Utilitarian philosopher. 
ANSWER: John Stuart  
Mill 
080-11-25-06105 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. In one essay by this man, an unnamed policeman in Burma is pressured by the natives to kill the title 
creature. In addition to \"Shooting an Elephant,\" this man wrote a novel in which the protagonist is married 
to the absent Katharine and works with Ampleforth, and another novel in which Boxer is exploited before 
being sent to his death by Napoleon. The latter novel sees the implementation of a maxim that states \"all\" 
the title characters \"are equal, but some are more equal than others.\" For 10 points, name this English 
author who wrote the dystopian  
1984 
 and  
Animal Farm. 
ANSWER: George  
Orwell 
 [or Eric Arthur  
Blair 
] 
081-11-25-06106 
7. One of this group's members published the  
Washington Globe 
 and attempted to help negotiate the end of 
the Civil War by organizing the Hampton Roads Peace Conference. Another man who worked with this 
group also served as Postmaster General and founded Gallaudet University, a school for the deaf. Those 
members of this body were Francis Blair and Amos Kendall. Nicholas Biddle lamented that this group 
\"predominated over the parlor,\" and it was often consulted after the Peggy Eaton affair. For 10 points, name 
this informal group that advised President Andrew Jackson. 
ANSWER:  
Kitchen Cabinet 
 [do not accept \"Andrew Jackson's Cabinet\"] 
030-11-25-06107 
8. Post's problem deals with the existence of intermediate value's of this man's namesake degrees. This 
man's namesake tarpit refers to the inability to get past the equivalence of processing systems. His work on 
the  
Entscheidungsproblem 
 lead to his notion of computable numbers. That work also lead to his discovery 
of the undecidability of the halting problem. The construct with which he's most associated has an infinite 
tape and is used as a model of computation. For 10 points, name this English computer scientist whose 
namesake test is designed to determine if humans can successfully mimic human behavior and the inventor 
of a namesake type of machine. 
ANSWER: Alan  
Turing 
081-11-25-06108 
9. One musical set aboard a ship that departs from this country includes the songs “It’s De-Lovely” and “I 
Get a Kick out of You.” That work is  
Anything Goes 
 by Cole Porter.  
On the Town 
 by Leonard Bernstein is 
about sailors from this country. One person from this country goes to Paris in a Gershwin musical. One 
musical set in this country includes the song “You’re the One That I Want” and is entitled  
Grease 
. For 10 
points, name this country that is the home of composer George M. Cohan, who wrote the song “Yankee 
Doodle Boy,” and where musicals are often performed on Broadway. 
ANSWER:  
U.S. 
A [or  
United States 
 of America; or  
America 
] 
027-11-25-06109 
10. When these structures are wounded, they are patched up by peroxisome-dense double membranous 
microbodies named for Woronin. The growth of these structures are controlled by organelles called 
spitzenkorpers. These structures are made up of individual cells that are divided by septa. Yeasts are 
unicellular, and thus do not have these structures. For 10 points, name these branching filaments that 
collectively form the mycelium in fungi. 
ANSWER:  
hyphae 
 [or  
mycelium 
 before stated] 
026-11-25-06110 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. This writer began one poem describing the \"various language\" with which Nature speaks to those who 
hold \"Communion with her visible forms.\" One of this author's poems asks the title creature why \"dost thou 
pursue thy solitary way?\" In another poem, this author instructed the reader \"go not, like the quarry slave at 
night,\" instead urging the reader to \"[lie] down to pleasant dreams.\" For 10 points, name this long-time  
New 
York Evening Post 
 editor who wrote \"To A Waterfall\" and \"Thanatopsis,\" an early American poet. 
ANSWER: William Cullen  
Bryant 
026-11-25-06111 
12. This politician said that an IRS plan to make buying breast-feeding equipment a medical expense was 
part of creating a nanny state in the U.S. In one speech, this politician claimed that \"we also know that 
the… founders …worked tirelessly until slavery was no more in the United States.\" Another slipup for this 
politician allegedly occurred because of the presence of multiple cameras, which made her look to the side 
of the screen while delivering the Tea Party rebuttal to Obama's 2011 State of the Union. For 10 points, 
name this Minnesota Representative expected to run for president in 2012. 
ANSWER: Michele Marie  
Bachmann 
 [or Michele Marie  
Amble 
] 
023-11-25-06112 
13. One work by this man includes the characters Miriam and Donatello, who resembles the title figure. 
This author of  
The Marble Faun 
 wrote a story which sees the title man and his wife Faith stumble upon a 
witches' meeting in the forest, and one in which Georgiana dies after Aylmer removes the title object. In 
addition to \"Young Goodman Brown\" and \"The Birthmark,\" this man wrote a novel in which Hester 
Prynne becomes ostracized after being branded with the title emblem. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Scarlet Letter. 
ANSWER: Nathaniel  
Hawthorne 
081-11-25-06113 
14. This country saw an effort to quell resentment towards the government by distributing 1,000 of its 
dollars to all of its families. The death of Ali Abdul Hadi Mushaimai occurred during a day of coordinated 
protests in this nation designed to occur ten years after the signing of its National Action Charter. The 
Al-Wefaq party officially joined the opposition groups in this country that has seen violence near its 
Roundabout Square and Monument. Governed by King Hamad ibn Isa Al Khalifa, for 10 points, name this 
Arab nation that has seen rioting in its capital Manama. 
ANSWER:  
Bahrain 
040-11-25-06114 
15. The African-American Moses Sash participated in this event and received double the number of 
indictments as its other participants. It was put down on the orders of Governor James Bowdoin, who did 
so using forces under the command of William Shephard. The decisive battle at which this rebellion was 
put down occurred at the Springfield Armory. Many of its participants were captured at Petersham. A 
refusal to abide by a law allowing for the confiscation of farmers' properties led to, for 10 points, what 
rebellion that occurred in 1787 in Massachusetts? 
ANSWER:  
Shays' 
 Rebellion 
040-11-25-06115 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 6 
Directed Round 
1A.  Generals MacArthur and Ridgeway were American commanders during which conflict that saw 
battles at Inchon and Pusan and led to the establishment of a Demilitarized Zone? 
ANSWER:  
Korean 
 War 
1B.  What action is indicated by the verbs “springen” in German, “saltar” in Spanish, and “sauter” in 
French? 
ANSWER:  
jump 
ing 
2A.  Dingane, Mpande, and Cetshwayo were rulers of which African people who were armed by the British 
to fight against the Boers, leading to the battle of Dleke Hill? 
ANSWER:  
Zulu 
s 
2B.  Titled the same as its artist's second album, what song, released on February 11th, contains a repeated 
refrain that asks listeners to not be a drag and just be a queen? 
ANSWER: \" 
Born This Way 
\" 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the determinant of the matrix 
whose first row is [1 3] and whose second row is [2 7]. 
ANSWER:  
1 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. If there are six black socks and six white socks in a drawer, 
what is the probability of drawing a matching pair? 
ANSWER:  
5/11 
4A.  A leading suprematist, which Russian painter is remembered for his geometrically and chromatically 
themed works such as  
Black Square 
 and  
White on White 
? 
ANSWER: Kasimir  
Malevich 
4B.  What American architect collaborated with John Root on the Masonic Temple Building and the 
Flatiron Building in addition to overseeing the 1893 Columbia Exposition? 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Burnham 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find all solutions to the following equation: the quantity x  + 
2 
4 x + 3, all over the quantity 3 x  + 7 x - 6, equals 0. 
2 
ANSWER: x =   [do not accept any answer including \"-3\"] 
-1 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the 95 percent confidence interval for the population 
mean if the sample mean is 20 and the sample standard deviation is 10. 
ANSWER:  
(0,40) 
 (\"0 to 40\") [accept  
(0.4,39.6) 
] 
6A.  Originally developed to aid in determining whether ships' sails should be hoisted, what scale, 
commonly using ratings from a zero to a twelve, is used to measure the intensity of winds? 
ANSWER:  
Beaufort 
 Scale 
6B. Styles of drama named noh and kabuki were developed in which nation whose playwright Zeami 
Motokiyo is known for works such as  
The Feather Mantle 
 and  
The Well Cradle 
? 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The longest diagonal in a right rectangular prism measures 
13 units. If the length, width, and height are all integers, what is the prism's volume? 
ANSWER:  
144 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all values of x on the domain 0 to 2 pi, inclusive, that 
satisfy the equation 2 sine squared x plus five sine x minus 3 equals 0. 
ANSWER: x =  
pi/6 
 and x =  
5 pi/6 
8A.  Name the leader of Czechoslovakia whose idea of \"socialism with a human face\" during the Prague 
Spring led to the Soviet invasion of his country and his removal from power. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Dubcek 
8B.  What British physicist discovered Argon and a namesake scattering, which explains why the sky is 
blue? 
ANSWER: Lord William  
Strutt 
 [or 3rd Baron  
Rayleigh 
] 
9A.  A \"teacher\" and a \"learner\" that would attempt to correctly identify word pairs was at the heart of 
which experiment, performed in Yale University, whose supposed purpose was to identify the effects of 
electric shocks on learning ability? 
ANSWER:  
Milgram 
 Experiment 
9B.  Gabrielle Anwar, Sharon Gless, and Jeffrey Donovan are among the stars of which television show 
known for its freeze frames and narration that centers on ex-spy Michael Weston? 
ANSWER:  
Burn Notice 
10A.  What hypothetical particle is postulated to endow elementary subatomic particles with mass and is 
sometimes called the \"God particle?\" 
ANSWER:  
Higgs 
 boson [or  
Higgs 
 particle] 
10B.  Recent troubles with alcohol and resisting arrest have repeatedly plagued Miguel Cabrera, a player 
for which baseball team that plays home games at Comerica Park? 
ANSWER:  
Detroit 
 Tigers [or Detroit  
Tigers 
] 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 6 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This author wrote a play about a woman who lives for three hundred years,  
The Makropulos Affair 
. This 
writer told of Mr. Bondy's attempt to get the title characters to work on hydroengineering projects instead 
of the pearl-fishing industry in a play about intelligent amphibians found on an island near Sumatra. This 
author of  
The War With the Newts 
 also wrote a play in which Marius, Sulla, and Radius are among the title 
mechanical people manufactured by the Rossum's Universal factory. For 10 points, name this Czech author 
who invented the word \"robot\" in his play  
R.U.R. 
. 
ANSWER: Karel  
Capek 
 (CHAH-peck) 
026-11-25-06117 
2. These compounds are transported by the AcrAB/TolC system. Genes such as neo whose products 
interact with these compounds are often used to positively select gene knockout mice cells. Several classes 
of these are degraded by Beta-lactamase and that class inhibits proper assembly of peptidoglycan. Another 
common mechanism for these substances is the inhibition of translation. Notable examples include 
tetracyclines and penicillin. For 10 points, name these compounds that are used to fight bacterial infections. 
ANSWER:  
antibiotic 
s 
001-11-25-06118 
3. In this work, the title character is entertained at Auerbach's Cellar, and is then taken to the Witch's 
Kitchen. The title character's frustration is expressed in this play's \"Prologue in Heaven.\" Wagner works on 
creating a human being, the Homunculus, in this work. The title character drinks a potion that takes thirty 
years off of his life and seduces Gretchen, and he later has a son Euphorion with Helen of Troy. For 10 
points each, name this play in which the title scholar gives his soul to Mephistopheles, a play by Johann 
Wolfgang von Goethe. 
ANSWER:  
Faust 
030-11-25-06119 
4. Joel Garreau described recently-created examples of these things in his book  
Edge [this] 
, and William 
Whyte subtitled a book about these entities \"Rediscovering the Center\". One writer used the example of 
one named \"obsidian\" to claim they were older than agriculture, and showed how they drove import 
replacement in  
The Economy of [this] 
. That writer, Jane Jacobs, also argued against conventional renewal 
projects in  
Death And Life Of Great American 
 these. Lewis Mumford also described these things \"in 
history\" For 10 points, give this term for large urban centers. 
ANSWER:  
city 
082-11-25-06120 
5. These bodies form through a process that begins with ambipolar diffusion, which leads to cloud collapse. 
During the formation of these bodies, they go through the Hayashi and sometimes the Henyey track. The 
Pillars of Creation are a region in which many of these bodies form. These bodies can be grouped by 
population depending on their metallicity. Their life cycles follow the Main Sequence of the 
Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. For 10 points, name these bodies that include Alpha Centauri and the sun. 
ANSWER:  
star 
s 
026-11-25-06121 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. Works in this style required a chorus to sing a parodos and multiple stasima. This style may take its 
name from the goat skins worn by performers of dithyrambs. Book Six of Aristotle’s  
Poetics 
 defines it as 
\"an imitation of an action that is serious, complete, and of a certain magnitude.\" In an annual contest, three 
of this type of play were presented along with a satyr play. For 10 points, name this style of Greek drama 
contrasted with comedy. 
ANSWER: Greek  
tragedy 
003-11-25-06122 
7. Ernst Ising solved his own model of ferromagnetism for cases in which this measure was one, but Lars 
Onsager solved it for cases in which this measure is two. Minkowski space has a measure of four for this 
property. String theory and M-theory propose that several of them have \"curled up\" at a subatomic level. In 
relativity, the fourth one of them is time. For 10 points, name this minimum number of coordinates needed 
to describe each point within a space, which is three for a cube and two for a square. 
ANSWER:  
dimension 
s 
026-11-25-06123 
8. This man composed a concerto in only two movements, linked by a cadenza, the second of which is a 
rondo based on Latin American themes. Another of this composer’s works is a song cycle based on twelve 
Emily Dickinson poems. This man wrote a Clarinet Concerto to be played by Benny Goodman, and he 
incorporated the folk-song “El Palo Verde” into his  
El Salon Mexico 
. He composed music for a ballet that 
incorporates the Shaker hymn “Simple Gifts” and was choreographed by Martha Graham. For 10 points, 
name this American composer of  
Appalachian Spring 
. 
ANSWER: Aaron  
Copland 
080-11-25-06124 
9. The  
Blue Cliff Record 
 is a text of this school, which was brought to China in the 500s by Bodhinharma 
(bode-HEEN-harm-uh) and to the west in the 1900s by D.T. Suzuki. The Soto sect emphasizes seated 
meditation called  
zazen 
, while the Rinzai sect uses paradoxical riddles called  
koans 
. Descended from 
Mahayana sources, it is widespread in Japan and stresses the importance of wisdom in gaining 
enlightenment. For 10 points, name this school of Buddhism whose name is associated with calmness. 
ANSWER:  
Zen 
 Buddhism [or  
Chan 
 Buddhism; prompt  
Buddhism 
; prompt  
Mahayana 
 Buddhism] 
079-11-25-06125 
10. This quality is described as being both temporal, timeless, and a combination of the two, and its 
attributes of historicism let it avoid the trap of novelties being preferable to repetition. It is remarked as 
lamentable that this term has been linked to the science of archaeology. The essay that analyzes it 
concludes by recommending a move away from analyzing poets to analyzing their works. For 10 points, 
name this concept contrasted with the \"Individual Talent\" in a T. S. Eliot essay, a term referring to bygone 
practices. 
ANSWER: \" 
Tradition 
 and the Individual Talent\" 
040-11-25-06126 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. The protagonist of this work is often disciplined by \"The Tickler\" of Mrs. Joe Gargery. This novel's 
protagonist is nicknamed \"Handel\" by a character who marries Clara Barley, Herbert Pocket. One character 
in this novel lives in Satis House and has not changed out of her wedding dress since being abandoned on 
her wedding day. That character from this novel is Miss Havisham. Abel Magwitch is the anonymous 
benefactor of this novel's main character, who is in love with Estella. For 10 points, name this novel by 
Charles Dickens about Pip. 
ANSWER:  
Great Expectations 
030-11-25-06127 
12. GPR30 is a receptor primarily for this messenger. It is antagonized by tamoxifen. It is created by 
through the conversion of a similar compound by aromatase. Stilbestrol is an analogue of this. This is 
actually a class of hormones including estradiol. Along with progesterone, it is the most common substance 
used in hormone replacement therapy for post-menopausal women. It For 10 points, name these hormones 
associated with female reproductive traits. 
ANSWER:  
estrogen 
 [or  
estradiol 
 before mentioned] 
001-11-25-06128 
13. The Union's victory in this battle depended on the actions of Prentiss and Wallace, who defended the 
\"Hornet's Nest.\" It was fought after the opening of the Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers during the battles 
of Forts Henry and Donelson. Albert Sydney Johnston was killed at this battle, which turned after Don 
Carlos Buell's forces arrived on the second day. For 10 points, name this battle fought at Pittsburg Landing 
that was a major Civil War engagement in southwestern Tennessee. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Shiloh 
 [or Battle of  
Pittsburg Landing 
 before mentioned] 
026-11-25-06129 
14. The Fermi energy explains why electrons do not significantly contribute to this material property at 
high temperatures, and the Debye temperature appears in an equation that shows a cubic dependence of this 
property on temperature at low temperatures. At constant volume, the molar form of this property is equal 
to about twenty-five Joules per mole Kelvin by the Law of Dulong and Petit. For 10 points, name this 
material property typically defined as the amount of heat needed to raise the temperature of one gram of 
substance by one degree Celsius. 
ANSWER:  
specific heat 
 capacity [prompt on  
heat capacity 
 until \"gram\"] 
003-11-25-06130 
15. One being associated with this entity is a son of Seven Macaw named Zipacna, while another figure 
associated with this was frequently depicted with a staff and is Serapis. Another deity of this location is the 
father of Horus who is said to preside over a ceremony in which a person's heart is weighed against a 
feather of Ma'at. Perhaps the most notable deity of this location is a possessor of the cap of invisibility, the 
brother of Zeus and Poseidon who is also associated with the dog Cerberus. For 10 points, name this region 
associated with the Eyptian Osiris and the Greek Hades. 
ANSWER: the  
underworld 
 [or gods of the  
underworld 
; or equivalents such as  
afterlife 
; prompt on  
death 
or word forms only before the word \"location\" is read; do not accept or prompt afterwards] 
081-11-25-06131 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 6 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. The U.S. Geological Survey defines this body of water's northern boundary by three lines, one of which 
connects Fidalgo and McGlinn Islands, and another one of which follows Deception Pass. It borders the 
Kitsap Peninsula and is considered part of the Salish Sea. Admiralty Inlet connects it to the Strait of Juan 
de Fuca. Its namesake Naval Shipyard is in Bremerton, and the largest city on its shores is the seat of King 
County. For 10 points, Tacoma and Seattle are the largest cities on what sound in Washington state? 
ANSWER:  
Puget Sound 
 [or  
Puget 
 Sound after it is mentioned] 
003-11-25-06132 
2. In organic chemistry, common reagents used in this kind of reaction include PCC and chromic acid, and 
this type of reaction converts KA-oil into adipic acid. Two of this kind of reaction are used in the Ostwald 
process for producing nitric acid from ammonia. In biochemistry, Vitamins C and E inhibit this kind of 
reaction, which can be caused by free radicals. For 10 points, name this type of reaction in which a reactant 
loses electrons, which is contrasted with reduction. 
ANSWER:  
oxidation 
003-11-25-06133 
3. This man made Herod the Great Tetrarch of Galilee, and in Athens he was deified as New Dionysus. 
This man's wife Fulvia was given the heads of Rufus and Cicero following the proscription of 43 BCE. He 
led Julius Caesar's left wing at the Battle of Pharsalus. He later organized a mob that drove Caesar's 
assassins from Rome. This man suffered a defeat at the hands of Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa in the naval 
battle of Actium. For 10 points, name this member of the triumvirate who committed suicide following his 
and Cleopatra's defeat at the hands of Octavian. 
ANSWER: Mark  
Antony 
 [or Marcus  
Antonius 
] 
030-11-25-06134 
4. This city's Garden Ring is a series of roads which follow the path of sixteenth-century fortifications. Its 
subway system consists of eleven spoke lines connected by a 20-kilometer ring line, and some of its ornate 
stations are decorated with once-royal chandeliers. This city is home to a theater whose ballet company 
premiered  
Spartacus 
 and a church whose many sanctuaries are each toped with onion domes. This home of 
the Bolshoi Ballet and St. Basil's Cathedral is centered on Red Square. For 10 points, name this home of the 
Kremlin and capital of Russia. 
ANSWER:  
Moscow 
082-11-25-06135 
5. In one novel set in this state, the albino Dave is kidnapped in order to divine a gold lode, which is 
supposedly located in Ty Ty Walden's title estate. That novel is  
God's Little Acre 
, which, like  
Tobacco 
Road 
, was written by Erskine Caldwell. Another work set in this state sees the Misfit murder a quarreling 
family. That work set in this state is \"A Good Man is Hard to Find\" by Flannery O'Connor. For 10 points, 
name this Southern state that was the home of Scarlett O'Hara in Margaret Mitchell's  
Gone With the Wind 
. 
ANSWER:  
Georgia 
030-11-25-06136 
This is a calculation question. What is tangent of pi over 6 times cosecant of pi over 4? 
ANSWER: square  
root 
 of  
6 over 3 
 [or square  
root 
 of  
2/3 
] 
030-11-25-06137 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
What British author wrote  
Decline and Fall 
 and  
Brideshead Revisited 
? 
ANSWER: Evelyn St. John  
Waugh 
030-11-25-06137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2011     Round 6     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
