2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Leaders of this event met at the Parkison's Ferry convention and included a former leader of the 
Regulators, Herman Husband. The federal troops that responded to this event were nicknamed, either for 
their tendency to fall apart under pressure or for their habit of raiding local farmers' fields, as the 
Watermelon Army, and were commanded by Light Horse Harry Lee. For 10 points, name this 1794 event 
in which western Pennsylvanians refused to pay an excise tax on liquor. 
ANSWER:  
Whiskey Rebellion 
019-13-74-05101 
2. Enzymes that break down this compound are inhibited by clavulanic acid. The mecA gene encodes a 
mutant version of this substance’s namesake binding protein that prevents the action of this substance. It 
inhibits the DD-transpeptidase that crosslinks D-amino acids in peptidoglycan (PEP-tid-oh-GLEYE-can). 
This beta-lactam compound inhibits the formation of bacterial cell walls. For 10 points, name this 
substance originally found in a dish of mold by Alexander Fleming, an early antibiotic. 
ANSWER:  
penicillin 
048-13-74-05102 
3. Some of the people who agreed to perform this action hid in Judges Cave after fleeing to Connecticut. 
The Indemnity and Oblivion Act mandated that only the people who had ordered this action were to be 
punished. This action was performed at the Banqueting House of Whitehall on January 30, 1649, after a 
week-long trial on charges of conspiring with Scots to invade England and causing the English Civil War. 
For 10 points, identify this act of regicide, which led to Oliver Cromwell forming the Protectorate. 
ANSWER:  
execution of Charles I 
 [or synonyms for \"execution\" including  
killing 
 or  
beheading 
; prompt 
on  
execution of Charles 
 or other partial answers] 
019-13-74-05103 
4. The \"checkerboard\" version of this procedure is used to generate standard curves for an ELISA assay. 
Potassium permanganate is used in a redox version of this procedure used to find the iron content of a 
sample. When applied to a polyprotic sample, this procedure produces a curve with multiple inflection 
points. For 10 points, name this procedure, that most often uses an acid-base reaction to determine the 
amount of analyte in a solution by dripping in a standard solution. 
ANSWER:  
titration 
048-13-74-05104 
5. The Aarne-Thompson index was created to classify this type of work, which Angela Carter updated in 
her short story collection  
The Bloody Chamber. 
 Bruno Bettelheim applied Freudian psychoanalysis in his 
readings of these works. Charles Perrault wrote several of the best-known works in this genre, including 
\"Bluebeard.\" Other works of this type include \"The Emperor's New Clothes\" and \"Rapunzel.\" For 10 
points, name this genre of story written by Hans Christian Andersen and collected by the Brothers Grimm. 
ANSWER:  
fairy tales 
 [or  
folk tales 
] 
080-13-74-05105 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  1 of 10 
6. This action is done by a well-known quantum algorithm that applies to databases, Grover's algorithm. 
When doing this action to a graph, a stack or queue can be used, respectively, in the depth-first and 
breadth-first varieties. The binary type of these algorithms can only be performed on a list that is sorted. 
\"Engines\" named for this action are designed to retrieve information from the Internet. For 10 points, 
identify this action that involves attempting to find a particular value in a list. 
ANSWER:  
search 
 algorithms [or word forms] 
201-13-74-05106 
7. In this book, Spoade jokingly refers to Shreve as the husband of his roommate. An Italian immigrant 
named Julio believes that one character in this novel is attempting to kidnap his little sister. One character 
in this novel commits suicide by jumping into the Charles River while attending Harvard. The mentally 
retarded Benjy narrates its first section. For 10 points, name this William Faulkner novel, the second 
section of which is narrated by Quentin Compson. 
ANSWER:  
The  Sound and the Fury 
030-13-74-05107 
8. These phenomena can be characterized by discontinuities in the derivative of the free energy, and 
infinite-order ones break no symmetries. An equation important to understanding these phenomena finds 
the slope of the coexistence curve and is named for Clausius and Clapeyron. First-order ones are 
characterized by latent heats; those include deposition and sublimation. For 10 points, name these 
phenomena that include evaporation and condensation, in which matter changes form. 
ANSWER:  
phase transition 
s [or  
phase change 
s; or  
phase transformation 
s] 
048-13-74-05108 
9. One character in this novel travels around the country with a man thirty years younger than her named 
Germaine. In this novel, Adam receives ritual scars before marrying Tashi, an event relayed by Nettie, the 
protagonist’s sister. Its first page details the narrator’s rape by a man she believes to be her father. Its 
protagonist is given up in marriage to Albert, a former lover of Shug Avery. For 10 points, name this novel, 
primarily composed of letters to God from Celie, by Alice Walker. 
ANSWER:  
The  Color Purple 
192-13-74-05109 
10. All practicing members of this religion take on a name meaning either \"princess\" or \"lion.\" Members of 
this religion undergo the \"amrit sanskar\" ritual to become a member of its order of adult believers. This 
religion’s last leader was Gobind Singh, who decreed that it would thereafter be led by its sacred text, the 
Granth, rather than human gurus. This religion dominates India’s Punjab region and was founded by Guru 
Nanak. For 10 points, name this monotheistic faith which draws on both Hinduism and Islam. 
ANSWER:  
Sikh 
ism 
019-13-74-05110 
11. The runner-up in the Democratic primary for this state's 2012 governor's election was Bob Etheridge, 
who had previously been accused of accosting Republican activists while serving in Congress. This state 
became an open race when incumbent Democrat Bev Perdue declined to run for re-election. Democrat 
Walter Dalton lost in, for 10 points, what state, which elected Republican Pat McCrory as its new governor 
following McCrory’s campaign to bring the NASCAR Hall of Fame to Charlotte? 
ANSWER:  
North Carolina 
019-13-74-05111 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  2 of 10 
12. These numbers can be represented with phasors. De Moivre's identity is used to exponentiate these 
numbers. They can be graphed on a plane where the distance from the origins represents the magnitude of 
the number, which can be obtained by multiplying one of these numbers by its conjugate. If the quadratic 
formula is used when the discriminant is less than zero, they are the output, and they always occur in pairs 
as roots of polynomials. For 10 points, name these numbers which consist of a real and an imaginary part. 
ANSWER:  
complex 
 numbers [prompt on  
imaginary 
 numbers until it is read] 
190-13-74-05112 
13. This city was defended by Dan Hunter during the Devil's Winter Siege. Its boroughs include Hob's Bay 
and Bakerline. A rough neighborhood in this city, Suicide Slum, is the home of John Henry Irons. Morgan 
Edge controls crime in this city, whose major businesses include Galaxy Communications, STAR Labs, the 
Daily Planet, 
 and LexCorp. For 10 points, identify this fictional city, the home of Perry White, Jimmy 
Olsen, Lois Lane, and Clark Kent, where most Superman stories take place. 
ANSWER:  
Metropolis 
 [not definitively located in any state, but placed in New York, Delaware, or Kansas 
in various sources, so accept any of those if additionally given] 
019-13-74-05113 
14. This ruler's court is the subject of  
Bring Up the Bodies 
 and  
Wolf Hall, 
 two novels of a projected trilogy 
by Hilary Mantel. Several characters are played by the Common Man at this man's court in Robert Bolt's  
A 
Man For All Seasons. 
 This subject of Shakespeare's last history play is thought to have written a poem 
beginning \"Alas, my love, ye do me wrong.\" For 10 points, name this king who apocryphally wrote the 
lyrics to \"Greensleeves\" for his lover, Anne Boleyn. 
ANSWER:  
Henry VIII 
080-13-74-05114 
15. This city is regarded as the birthplace of the National Guard. It was the location of the New World's 
first Congregationalist church, shortly after it was founded by Roger Conant. Judges William Stoughton, 
Samuel Sewall, and John Hathorne imprisoned 150 people in this city and executed twenty after tales from 
the slave Tituba spread in 1692. For 10 points, name this Massachusetts city, where a hysteria over 
supposed witchcraft occurred. 
ANSWER:  
Salem 
019-13-74-05115 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  3 of 10 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  In December 2012, Typhoon Bopha killed 450 people in what country, prompting President Benigno 
Aquino to declare a \"national calamity?\" 
ANSWER: Republic of the  
Philippines 
 [or Republika ng  
Pilipinas 
] 
1B.  What forms of nouns, such as nominative, dative, or accusative, are made via declension in languages 
such as German, Greek, and Latin? 
ANSWER:  
case 
s [or  
inflection 
s] 
2A.  What BCS game saw Oklahoma State defeat Stanford in overtime in 2012, and pitted Kansas State 
against Oregon in 2013? 
ANSWER: Tostitos  
Fiesta 
 Bowl 
2B.  Name the eclectic French intellectual who philosophized about power dynamics in modern society 
through outwardly historical books such as  
Madness and Civilization 
 and  
The History of Sexuality. 
ANSWER: Michel  
Foucault 
3A.  What composer based his  
Lieutenant Kije 
 (kee-JAY)  
Suite 
 on an Aleksandr Faintsimmer film and also 
wrote  
Peter and the Wolf? 
ANSWER: Sergei Sergeyevich  
Prokofiev 
3B.  What French literary term refers to the \"untying\" that occurs at the conclusion of a literary work? 
ANSWER:  
denouement 
4A.  Name the Canadian province that is home to the scenic Banff National Park, as well as the major cities 
of Calgary and Edmonton. 
ANSWER:  
Alberta 
4B.   
Nurse Jackie, Dexter, 
   and  
Homeland 
 are broadcast on what premium cable channel? 
ANSWER:  
Showtime 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. On a number line, there is an open circle at x = 5 and the part 
of the line to the right of the circle is shaded. What is the inequality graphed on the number line? 
ANSWER:  
x is 
 strictly  
greater than five 
 [or  
x > 5 
; do not accept \"x is greater than or equal to five\"] 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the range of the arccosine function? 
ANSWER:  
0 to pi 
 inclusive [or  
[0,pi] 
] 
6A.  What diagram that contains the \"main sequence\" plots stars using two axes: luminosity, a stand-in for 
stellar brightness, and temperature, a stand-in for stellar color? 
ANSWER:  
HR 
 diagram [or  
Hertzsprung-Russell 
 diagram] 
6B.  What weak non-covalent interactions are responsible for holding water molecules together and for 
base-pairing in DNA? 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen 
 bond 
7A.  Name the Hindu god who is fated to dance the world to destruction, but is also depicted with a blue 
throat because he swallowed all the poison produced by the churning of the ocean. 
ANSWER:  
Shiva 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  4 of 10 
7B.  What contemporary of Isaac Newton used a microscope to discover plant cells and devised a formula 
for the restoring force of springs? 
ANSWER: Robert  
Hooke 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A game is designed to give out a prize ten percent of the 
time. What is the standard deviation of the binomial distribution representing the number of prizes won in a 
random sample of one hundred plays? 
ANSWER:  
3 
8B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A kite has diagonals of lengths 21 and 24 units. All four sides 
of the kite have whole number lengths. What is the perimeter of the kite? 
ANSWER:   units 
66 
9A.  Which emperor came to power with the help of Empress Plotina, Trajan's widow, and marked Roman 
Britain's northern boundary with a wall? 
ANSWER:  
Hadrian 
 [or Caesar Traianus H 
adrian 
 Augustus; or Publius Aelius  
Hadrian 
us] 
9B.  What Quechua (KECH-oo-uh)-speaking empire surrendered to Francisco Pizarro's Spanish army while 
ruled by Atahualpa (ah-tah-WAL-puh)? 
ANSWER:  
Inca 
n Empire [or  
Tawantinsuyu 
] 
10A.  What member of the Generation of '27 wrote about a woman who desperately wants a child in  
Yerma 
and about the marriage of The Groom and The Bride in  
Blood Wedding 
? 
ANSWER: Federico Garcia  
Lorca 
10B.  Which American war included Operation Rolling Thunder and the evacuation of Saigon? 
ANSWER:  
Vietnam 
 War 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  5 of 10 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This state was predicted by a set of quantum mechanical statistics that differs from Fermi-Dirac 
statistics. This state is created by taking a collection of particles with integer spin and forcing them to 
occupy the lowest energy level. The first one was created by Cornell and Wieman, who used Doppler 
cooling on a collection of rubidium atoms. for 10 points, name this ultra-cold state of degenerate matter 
named for two physicists. 
ANSWER:  
Bose-Einstein 
 condensates [or  
BEC 
s] 
048-13-74-05117 
2. In this novel, an updating of a children's story by R. M. Balantyne, a dead parachutist falls onto a 
mountain and is misidentified as a \"creature.\" Its other characters include a pair of twins whose names are 
combined into one word, Samneric. In this novel, Roger looses a boulder that simultaneously destroys a 
conch shell and Piggy, and Ralph engages in a power struggle with Jack. 10 points, name this William 
Golding novel about children who build a dystopian society on a deserted island. 
ANSWER:  
Lord of the Flies 
080-13-74-05118 
3. A variable one of these can be created by using only two terminals on a potentiometer. Four of these 
devices in a square conformation are used to create a Wheatstone bridge. They are often found with 
capacitors or inductors in AC circuits. These devices add in series. The voltage drop across one of these 
elements can be calculated using Ohm’s law. For 10 points, name these circuit elements represented by a 
zig-zag line, whose namesake characteristic is measured in ohms. 
ANSWER:  
resistor 
048-13-74-05119 
4. In a dream poem by this author, an eagle snatches him up from a glass temple of Venus and takes him to 
the \"House of Fame.\" He wrote the first attested work treating St. Valentine's Day as a day for lovers, \"The 
Parliament of Fowls.\" He wrote, \"Whan that Aprill with his shoures soote,\" (SHA-wurs SUH-tuh) to begin 
the \"General Prologue\" to his major work, which includes stories told by the Wife of Bath and the Knight. 
For 10 points, name this medieval English poet of  
The Canterbury Tales. 
ANSWER: Geoffrey  
Chaucer 
080-13-74-05120 
5. One material composed of this element was first isolated by Geim and Novoselov, who used the \"Scotch 
tape\" method. Dolomite belongs to a class of minerals named for this element. An isotope of this element 
that has a half-life of about five thousand seven hundred and thirty years is commonly used in radioactive 
dating. One allotrope of this element is used in pencils, while another is a ten on the Mohs Hardness scale. 
For 10 points, name this element that constitutes graphite and diamonds. 
ANSWER:  
carbon 
 [or  ] 
C 
149-13-74-05121 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  6 of 10 
6. In one play, this character dons a mask to rob four thieves along with Poins. Later, he wins a single 
combat against Hotspur at Shrewsbury. In his own play, this character cries \"Once more unto the breach, 
dear friends!\" during one battle and addresses his company as \"we few, we happy few, we band of 
brothers\" on St. Crispin's Day. For 10 points, name this irresponsible prince who pals around with Falstaff 
in  
Henry IV, Part I 
 but goes on to win the Battle of Agincourt. 
ANSWER: Prince  
Hal 
 [or Prince  
Henry 
; or  
Henry V 
] 
080-13-74-05122 
7. This painter made the pro-republican scene  
The Tragedy of Lucretia 
 to protest the return of the Medici 
family, a few years after burning his own works under the influence of the Savonarola government. One of 
his paintings depicts Zephyr abducting Chloris from an orange grove, and another shows a decorated pink 
blanket about to be thrown over a woman riding a seashell. For 10 points, name this painter of  
Primavera 
and  
The Birth of Venus. 
ANSWER: Sandro  
Boticelli 
 [ or Alessandro di Mariano  
Filipepi 
] 
019-13-74-05123 
8. This desert is the only remaining home of an endangered wild donkey species, the khulan. In part of this 
desert, the \"White Cave\" houses proto-human artifacts up to seven hundred thousand years old. The Mogao 
Caves here hold a cache of Silk Road art. The southern portion of this desert comprises the Alxa (AL-shuh) 
Plateau, and it is found south of the Altai Mountains. For 10 points, name this desert of northern China and 
southern Mongolia. 
ANSWER:  
Gobi 
 desert 
019-13-74-05124 
9. Vincent van Gogh's  
The Courtesan 
 displays the painter's affinity for artwork from this country. An artist 
from this country created the  
Ten Famous Places in the Eastern Capital 
 series, in the same genre as the 
man from this country who depicted a \"great wave\" in one of its harbors, and \"thirty-six views\" of a 
prominent mountain here. For 10 points, name this country where woodblock printing, or  
ukiyo-e, 
 depicted 
landmarks such as Kanagawa and Mount Fuji. 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nihon 
-koku; or  
Nippon 
-koku] 
019-13-74-05125 
10. The ancient academic center of Heliopolis has been completely subsumed by this city, which continues 
to provide religious training at the prestigious Al-Azhar University. This city was given a new name 
meaning \"The Victorious\" by the Fatimids after the conquering of the former Fustat. The Arab League’s 
headquarters overlooks a plaza in this city named for “liberation,” Tahrir Square, where 2011 protests were 
focused. For 10 points, name this largest city in Africa, the Arab world, and Egypt. 
ANSWER:  
Cairo 
 [or Al- 
Qahirah 
; or  
Masr 
] 
019-13-74-05126 
11. In 2001, Charles Yates rediscovered a lost march by this composer, a piece honoring Alessandro Volta 
entitled \"Electric Shock.\" In an opera by this composer, a character explains herself with the aria \"In this 
palace,\" and Prince Calaf notes that \"none shall sleep\" in \"Nessun dorma.\" This composer wrote that opera 
about a Chinese princess, who gives three riddles to suitors and beheads those who cannot answer. For 10 
points, name this composer of  
Turandot 
 and  
Madame Butterfly. 
ANSWER: Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria  
Puccini 
019-13-74-05127 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  7 of 10 
12. This kingdom's cell walls can be inhibited from forming by echinocandins (ek-EYE-no-CAN-dinz). 
Mating in these organisms requires the formation of a heterokaryon (het-er-o-KAR-ee-on), followed by 
fusion of nuclei to form a diploid zygote. Members of this kingdom have bodies consisting of filaments 
called hyphae, whose cell walls contain chitin (KITE-in). Organisms of this kingdom can form a symbiote 
with plant roots, called a mycorrhizae. For 10 points, name this kingdom that includes mushrooms. 
ANSWER:  
fungi 
 [or  
fungus 
] 
048-13-74-05128 
13. One character in this story complains he was not there when Jesus raised the dead because “if I had 
been there I would of known and I wouldn't be like I am now.” This story's protagonist remembers, right 
before a car accident, that her old home was in Tennessee, not Georgia. This story ends with the murder of 
the Grandmother and her entire family by the criminal known as the Misfit. For 10 points, name this short 
story by Flannery O'Connor. 
ANSWER: \"A  
Good Man Is Hard to Find 
\" 
121-13-74-05129 
14. This organism can cause violin-string adhesions to the liver in FitzHugh-Curtis syndrome. This 
organism cycles through elementary body and reticular body phases. This organism also causes a form of 
conjunctivitis with inclusion bodies in the newborn children of infected patients. This bacterium, like 
Neisseria, can cause pelvic inflammatory disease and urethritis. For 10 points, name this causative agent of 
the most common sexually transmitted disease. 
ANSWER:  
chlamydia 
 trachomatis [or  
C. trachomatis 
] 
048-13-74-05130 
15. This American colony initially prohibited both liquor and slavery. During a conflict over this colony's 
Debatable Land, one side defended St. Simons Island by building Fort Frederica and winning the Battle of 
Bloody Marsh. This colony sent no delegates to the First Continental Congress. In the Revolutionary War, 
a major port in this colony was where Casimir Pulaski died. For 10 points, name this southernmost of the 
original thirteen colonies, which began as a debtors' haven run by James Oglethorpe. 
ANSWER:  
Georgia 
019-13-74-05131 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  8 of 10 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This man wrote in opposition to Walter Lipmann's theory of journalism, advocating universal 
participation in politics in his book  
The Public and Its Problems. 
 He was the head judge at a celebrated 
mock trial of Leon Trotsky. He coined the term “instrumentalism” to refer to his belief that participation is 
the only proper form of learning, as found in his book  
Democracy and Education. 
 For 10 points, name this 
American philosopher, who succeeded William James as the leading pragmatist. 
ANSWER: John  
Dewey 
019-13-74-05132 
2. This author admitted to inventing details on the life of Fray Antonio in his work  
A Chronicle of the 
Conquest of Granada. 
 His essay \"English Writers in America\" appears in one of his short story collections. 
He described a quilting frolic held at the home of Katrina Van Tassel, where Brom Bones tells a story of a 
spectral Hessian soldier that later supposedly haunts Ichabod Crane. For 10 points, name this author of \"Rip 
Van Winkle\" and \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.\" 
ANSWER: Washington  
Irving 
030-13-74-05133 
3. Movement of this material creates a landform called kipukas. A monolith made of it called a “spine” 
appeared in the Caribbean and was called “Pelee’s Tower.” When this material emerges from an 
underwater vent, it can form “pillow” types of it. At a location named Erta Ale in Ethopia, this material 
forms a lake in a caldera. Types of it that flow are called ‘a’a and pahoehoe. For 10 points, name this 
molten rock, which as opposed to magma, appears above the surface when expelled by a volcano. 
ANSWER:  
lava 
 [prompt on  
igneous 
 rock] 
052-13-74-05134 
4. The n equals one case of the Newton-Cotes formula corresponds to using this shape. That method is 
equivalent to averaging the left-hand and right-hand Riemann sums, and uses this shape to approximate the 
area under a curve. Like a triangle, the area of one of these shapes can be calculated as the midsegment 
times the height. These shapes have adjacent angles which sum to 180 degrees. For 10 points, name these 
quadrilaterals with one pair of parallel sides. 
ANSWER:  
trapezoid 
s 
190-13-74-05135 
5. This leader willingly gave up information about Korean Air Lines Flight 007 in a move that signaled 
greater openness. His early policies took elements of \"shock therapy\" and were called \"economic genocide\" 
by his vice president. He illegally dissolved parliament in October 1993 and raided a government building 
with tanks. He was succeeded by Vladimir Putin. For 10 points, name this man who served as the first 
President of the Russian Federation, succeeding Mikhail Gorbachev. 
ANSWER: Boris Nikolayevich  
Yeltsin 
192-13-74-05136 
This is a calculation question. The odds of getting a certain kind of insert in a pack of baseball cards are 5:1 
against. What is the probability that any given pack contains an insert of that kind? Express your answer as 
a simple fraction. 
ANSWER:  
1/6 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  9 of 10 
What tallest peak in the contiguous United States is partially located in Sequoia National Park in 
California? 
ANSWER: Mount  
Whitney 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regionals     5     Page  10 of 10 
