VHSL States 2012 
Round 4 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In  
Crime and Punishment, 
 Svidrigailov (svih-drih-GUY-lahf) claims to be going to this country just 
before shooting himself. After impregnating household servant Johanna Brummer, the youth Karl Rossman 
is sent to this country in a Franz Kafka novel. In 1974, Alexander Solzhenitsyn went to this country after 
being exiled from the Soviet Union. People from this country visiting Spain are the subject of  
The Sun Also 
Rises. 
 For 10 points, name this country whose  
emigre 
 authors included Gertrude Stein and Ernest 
Hemingway. 
ANSWER: the  
United States 
 of America [or the United States of  
America 
 or other obvious equivalents] 
080-12-56-04101 
2. A molecule that does not do this action in a solution has a van ‘t Hoff factor of 1. An ICE table is often 
used to determine the amount of a compound that undergoes this action. For an acid, the log of the constant 
for this process is related to pH by the Henderson-Hasselbach equation. When this process occurs with 
salts, it can create an electrolytic solution. For 10 points, name this process by which molecules are split 
into their smaller component ions. 
ANSWER:  
dissociation 
 [or  
ionization 
; or acid  
dissociation 
] 
023-12-56-04102 
3. In one battle, this officer disobeyed the orders of Admiral Hyde Parker, which led to his destruction of 
much of the Danish fleet. He was victorious at another battle fought in Aboukir Bay. After he was stationed 
at Cadiz aboard the HMS  
Victory 
, this man defeated a Franco-Spanish force led by Admiral Villeneuve in 
an engagement that saw him hit by sniper fire. For 10 points, name this British naval officer who was shot 
and killed during his victory at the 1805 Battle of Trafalgar. 
ANSWER: Horatio  
Nelson 
064-12-56-04103 
4. The long half-life of about 4.5 billion years of this element makes it useful for radiometric dating in 
techniques that see it decay to thorium (THOR-ee-uhm) and lead. Martin Klaproth discovered this 
element’s presence in pitchblende. It also occurs in a type of powder called yellowcake. The 235 isotope of 
it is the only naturally occurring fissile (FIH-sie-ull) isotope, which is enriched in centrifuges from its more 
common 238 isotope. For 10 points, name this member of the actinide (ACK-tih-nide) series that is used in 
nuclear reactors. 
ANSWER:  
uranium 
147-12-56-04104 
5. This ruler conquered the kingdom of his father-in-law Desiderius and was victorious at Pamplona but 
lost at Saragossa. This student of Alcuin built his palace at Aachen, and his biography was written by 
Einhard. This predecessor of Louis the Pious lost his rear guard to a surprise attack at Roncesvalles 
(RON-seh-valz) Pass. This son of Pepin the Short was crowned by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day in 800. 
For 10 points, name this Holy Roman Emperor who united the Frankish lands. 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
 [or  
Charles I 
; or  
Charles the Great 
; or  
Charles le Grand 
; or  
Carolus Magnus 
; or  
Karl der Grosse 
; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
124-12-56-04105 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  1 of 10 
6. In one story by this writer, a man in black offers a serpent-shaped staff to the title character as they walk. 
After witnessing a witches' sabbath in the forest, that title character created by this author distrusts his wife 
Faith. In a novel by him, the protagonist’s husband is first seen standing beside an Indian after returning 
under the name Roger Chillingworth. That novel involves Hester Prynne being forced to wear a patch of 
fabric in the shape of an “A.” For 10 points, name this American writer who wrote “Young Goodman 
Brown” and  
The Scarlet Letter. 
ANSWER: Nathaniel  
Hawthorne 
130-12-56-04106 
7. In one country, this body of water is named for the province of Mazandaran (mah-ZAHN-durr-ahn) that 
borders it. Old records show that both the Syr Darya (sir DAH-ree-uh) and Amu Darya (ah-moo 
DAH-ree-uh) rivers once flowed into this body of water, although neither one currently does. The Alborz 
Mountains lie along the southern shore of this body. The Ural and Volga rivers both end in this body of 
water, whose major cities include Baku in Azerbaijan. For 10 points, name this large sea in central Asia, 
found north of Iran and to the east of the Black Sea. 
ANSWER:  
Caspian 
 Sea 
064-12-56-04107 
8. The Five-Power Naval Limitation Treaty and the Four-Power Pact were signed during this man's 
presidency. This President defeated James Cox using a \"front porch\" campaign. In one speech, this man 
advocated a \"return to normalcy\" in the aftermath of World War I. During his administration, Albert Fall 
profited from the leasing of oil reserves such as Teapot Dome. For 10 points, name this President who, 
upon his death in office in 1923, was succeeded by Calvin Coolidge. 
ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel  
Harding 
142-12-56-04108 
9. One character in this book is taken out of school after her teacher hits her for trading limes with her 
friends and giving none to Miss Snow. The epigraph to this novel is taken from John Bunyan's  
Pilgrim's 
Progress, 
 which also provides many of its chapter titles. The protagonist of this novel marries Professor 
Bhaer, who helps her develop as a writer. By its end, Beth has died of scarlet fever, and Amy has married 
her former neighbor Laurie. For 10 points, name this novel about Josephine March and her three sisters by 
Louisa May Alcott. 
ANSWER:  
Little Women 
080-12-56-04109 
10. The further propagation of this structure is threatened by deletion of its AZF region. Swyer syndrome 
can be caused by a deficiency in this structure’s SRY region. A degeneration of this structure in Muridae 
and Cricetidae (crick-ET-id-eye) has led many scientists to hypothesize its eventual disappearance within 
the next ten million years in primates and humans. The most recent common ancestor of this structure, 
named Adam, is often paired with Mitochrondrial Eve. For 10 points, name this sex-determining 
chromosome that starts the development of testes and the production of sperm. 
ANSWER:   chromosome 
Y 
130-12-56-04110 
11. This deity was served by the god of the wine-press, Shezmu, in his realm of Duat. In one story, this god 
held a banquet at which his brother tricked him into entering a casket that fit this god’s dimensions. Only 
thirteen pieces of this god are found after he is cut into fourteen by his brother Set; he is mostly recovered 
and reconstructed by his wife. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god of the underworld who was the father 
of Horus and husband of Isis. 
ANSWER:  
Osiris 
 [or  
Usir 
] 
023-12-56-04111 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  2 of 10 
12. This city contains a Sanitary and Ship Canal that is connected by the Cal-Sag Channel to the Little 
Calumet River. Sections of highway in this city are named the Edens, Calumet, and Dan Ryan. This city 
has a 150 foot high Ferris wheel located on its Navy Pier. Each Saint Patrick's Day, this city's main river is 
dyed green. For 10 points, name this city located on Lake Michigan that is the third largest in the U.S. and 
the largest in Illinois. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
023-12-56-04112 
13. A dynamic example of these algorithms developed by Ziv and Lempel optimizes based on the sample 
being examined. These algorithms can be performed if the Shannon entropy is less than the average 
encoding length. The discrete cosine transform and run-length encoding are “lossy” examples of these 
algorithms. Those are often performed with images or sound, where missing information may go unnoticed. 
A lossless example for images is the GIF format, and JPEG employs both lossy and lossless types of this. 
For 10 points, name these algorithms that reduce the memory necessary to store information. 
ANSWER: data  
compression 
 algorithms [or word forms] 
121-12-56-04113 
14. This composer's Septet in E-flat major was dedicated to Maria Theresa, and was premiered along with 
his first symphony. He wrote a set of 33 pieces based on the work of an earlier Italian composer, the 
Diabelli (dee-a-BEHL-ee) Variations. His piano sonatas include  
Les Adieux Waldstein 
,   (VAHLD-shtein), 
and  
Apassionata 
; the nickname of another was inspired by a critic's comparison to Lake Lucerne. For 10 
points, name this composer of the  
Moonlight Sonata, 
 who included a setting of Schiller's \"Ode to Joy\" in 
his ninth symphony. 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven 
040-12-56-04114 
15. One method for determining this property uses a Durometer. Another method for calculating this 
property uses the coefficient 1.854 and a material in the shape of a square pyramid. That method was 
devised by engineers at Vickers, Ltd. This property can be measured using a sclerometer 
(SCLER-ah-muh-ter). One scale for this property lists quartz at seven. For 10 points, name this property 
measured by the Mohs scale to be the resistance of a smooth surface to abrasion or scratching. 
ANSWER:  
hardness 
130-12-56-04115 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 4 
Directed Round 
1A.  Who wrote  
The Conditions of the Working Class in England 
 while in Manchester, three years before 
co-authoring  
The Communist Manifesto 
 with Karl Marx? 
ANSWER: Friedrich  
Engels 
1B.  What Mexican poet wrote the essay collection  
The Labyrinth of Solitude 
? 
ANSWER: Octavio  
Paz 
2A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the smallest prime divisor of 329? 
ANSWER:  
7 
2B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the power of a test that incorrectly identifies 5% of 
negative results as positive and 1% of positive results as negative? 
ANSWER:  
0.99 
 [or  
99% 
] 
3A.  What poetry collection by Charles Baudelaire (BOE-duh-lair) begins with a poem \"To the Reader\" and 
contains the section \"Spleen and Ideal\"? 
ANSWER:  
Les  Fleurs du Mal 
 [or  
The  Flowers of Evil 
] 
3B.  What NBA team plays in the FedEx Forum and is led by Rudy Gay and Zach Randolph? 
ANSWER: Memphis  
Grizzlies 
 [or  
Memphis 
 Grizzlies] 
4A.  Which chemical bonds are formed when atoms share pairs of electrons? 
ANSWER:  
covalent 
 bonds 
4B.  What artificial language was created by Ludwig Zamenhof in 1887? 
ANSWER:  
Esperanto 
5A.  Which former President was accused during the Whitewater Scandal of providing funding illegally to 
a corporation while he was acting as Governor of Arkansas? 
ANSWER: Bill  
Clinton 
 [or William Jefferson  
Clinton 
; or William Jefferson  
Blythe 
 III] 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Construct regular hexagon ABCDEF of side length 2 units. 
What is the area of rectangle ACDF? Express your answer in simplest radical form. 
ANSWER:   times the square  
4 root 
 of   square units [or  
3 4 sqrt(3) 
 square units] 
6A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Solve on the interval x between 0 and 2 pi, inclusive. 2 cos x 
2 
- 3 cos x - 2 = 0. 
ANSWER:  
{2pi/3, 4pi/3} 
6B.  Palamedes (pal-uh-MEED-eez) placed what son of Odysseus in front of a plow prior to the Trojan 
War? 
ANSWER:  
Telemachus 
7A.  In response to a question at a January 17 debate about US-Pakistani relations, Newt Gingrich claimed 
that Andrew Jackson's policy towards \"America's enemies\" was what two-word phrase? 
ANSWER: \" 
kill them 
\" 
7B.  What is the term for the Jain doctrine of universal nonviolence that manifests in practitioners taking 
great care not to harm insects and other animals? 
ANSWER:  
ahimsa 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  4 of 10 
8A.  Which Roman emperor was served by the generals Belisarius and Narses? 
ANSWER:  
Justinian 
 the Great [or  
Justinian 
 I] 
8B.  What author of  
Nine Stories 
 wrote about Holden Caulfield in  
The Catcher in the Rye 
? 
ANSWER: Jerome David  
Salinger 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Kevin is twice as old as John will be in four years. In two 
years, Matt will be three times as old as John is now. Four years ago, Kevin was twice as old as Matt. How 
old is John? 
ANSWER:   years old 
4 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. There are 8 good apples and 2 rotten apples in a box of 
apples. If you randomly pick 4 apples from the box without replacement, what is the probability that 
exactly 3 of them are good apples? Express your answer as a fraction in lowest terms. 
ANSWER:  
8/15 
10A.  What actress voiced Lady Bluebury in  
Gnomeo and Juliet 
 and played Professor McGonagall in the 
Harry Potter series? 
ANSWER: Maggie  
Smith 
10B.  What is the number of extra troops provided by Europe and North America in Risk, the number of 
resources in  
The Settlers of Catan, 
 or the point value of a rook in chess? 
ANSWER:  
five 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 4 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In James Joyce's  
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, 
 Stephen Dedalus writes a poem in this form. In 
this form of poem, the first and third lines form a rhyming couplet at the end of the poem, and the first line 
is repeated at the end of the second stanza. One poem written in this form exhorts the addressee to \"rage, 
rage against the dying of the light.\" For 10 points, Dylan Thomas's \"Do Not Go Gentle into That Good 
Night\" is an example of what nineteen-line poetic form with a French name? 
ANSWER:  
villanelle 
003-12-56-04117 
2. This cell is surrounded by the corona radiata, which supplies proteins to it. It is also protected by the 
zona pellucida, which allows for the acrosome reaction to take place. Polar bodies exist inside of these 
cells. Around a day after a surge of Luteinizing Hormone, this cell is released from its site of production. 
That event ends the follicular phase of a cycle involving the discharge of this cell. For 10 points, name this 
female gamete, a reproductive cell that is fertilized by sperm. 
ANSWER:  
ovum 
 [or  
egg 
 cell] 
127-12-56-04118 
3. This state's \"Archive War\" was fought over an attempt to move this state's capital by a man who replaced 
Mirebeau Lamar as the leader of this state. English designs on this state were revealed in the Pakenham 
letter by John Calhoun. The Compromise of 1850 reimbursed this state for lost territory. John Tyler failed 
to annex this state, a feat that was accomplished by James K. Polk. For 10 points, name this state that was 
led for ten years as a Republic by men such as Sam Houston. 
ANSWER:  
Texas 
 [or Republic of  
Texas 
] 
149-12-56-04119 
4. The presence of this property causes Joule heating. For a model in which this property is absent, 
Bardeen, Cooper, and Schriffer won a Nobel Prize. The absence of this quality leads to the expulsion of 
magnetic fields in the Meissner effect. For a conductor, this quantity is equal to length divided by 
cross-sectional area times conductivity. For 10 points, name this quantity, equal to voltage divided by 
current according to Ohm's law, and absent in superconductors. 
ANSWER: electrical  
resistance 
002-12-56-04120 
5. In Frederic Church's  
The Heart of the Andes 
, two miniscule natives are in front of one of these objects 
next to a cliff. Piero della Francesca (fran-CHESS-kuh) painted a series detailing the \"Legend\" of one of 
these objects. In Renaissance art, these objects are frequently mounted with a sign reading \"INRI\" 
(\"I-N-R-I\"), and a man is taken down from one in Deposition scenes. Mary Magdalene and the Virgin Mary 
are often at their bases. For 10 points, name these objects upon which Jesus is mounted in Passion scenes. 
ANSWER:  
cross 
es [or  
crucifix 
es; or the true  
cross 
] 
080-12-56-04121 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  6 of 10 
6. The Lorentz factor is defined as 1 over the square root of 1 minus v squared over this quantity squared, 
so this quantity affects the extent of length contraction or time dilation. Tachyons are so named because of 
their hypothetical ability to exceed it. According to Einstein's mass-energy equivalence, energy is equal to 
mass times the square of this quantity. For 10 points, give this quantity symbolized c and equal to three 
times ten to the eighth meters per second in a vacuum. 
ANSWER: the  
speed of light 
 [accept   early] 
c 
142-12-56-04122 
7. This country was home to the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, Andres Bonifacio's Katipunan 
(KAH-tee-poo-NAHN), and Jose Rizal's Propaganda Movement. The Tydings-McDuffie Act gave 
independence to this country, and the People Power Revolution ousted one of its presidents. Corazon 
Aquino and Ferdinand Marcos led this country, where the Battles of Corregidor and Bataan were fought. 
For 10 points, in what country did John Dewey and Emilio Aguinaldo win the Battle of Manila Bay? 
ANSWER: Republic of the  
Philippines 
 [or Republika ng  
Pilipinas 
] 
079-12-56-04123 
8. Hypotheses for the origin of this phylum include the woody magnoliid and paleoherb hypotheses. 
Members of this phylum are monoecious (MON-oh-EESH-uss) if they contain both sexes and are divided 
into monocots or dicots based on the number of cotyledons. Seeds are contained inside sporophylls in 
members of this phylum, whose corolla surround the stamen and pistil. Sepals protect petals on members of 
this fruit-producing phylum. For 10 points, name this phylum of flowering plants, contrasted with 
gymnosperms. 
ANSWER:  
angiosperm 
ae [or  
angiosperm 
s or  
Anthophyta 
] 
124-12-56-04124 
9. Hamid Karzai endorsed a plan for peace in Afghanistan that would start with the Taliban opening an 
office in this country. In November 2011, Pakistani officials caused a minor diplomatic tiff with this 
country by releasing fifty falcons belonging to its royal family. The headquarters for Al Jazeera are located 
in this country, which also housed the US forward operating base for the invasion of Iraq. Recently, this 
country has been embroiled in corruption allegations and announced plans to air-condition its outdoor 
stadiums. For 10 points, name this country which was surprisingly awarded the 2022 FIFA World Cup. 
ANSWER:  
Qatar 
015-12-56-04125 
10. The equipment used by this scientist in his namesake experiment was actually designed and built by 
John Mitchell. That apparatus consisted of two pairs of lead spheres of 350 and 1.6 pounds set on a torsion 
balance. That experiment was intended to measure the Earth’s density, but ultimately yielded both the 
Earth’s mass and a universal constant. For 10 points, name this British scientist who completed Newton’s 
Law of Universal Gravitation by measuring the gravitational constant. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Cavendish 
147-12-56-04126 
11. One building found in a suburb of this city features eight steel columns and glass walls built of giant 
panes; that is Ludwig Mies van der Rohe's Farnsworth House. Steel is again used in one sculpture in this 
city, nicknamed The Bean, which is the massive stainless steel  
Cloud Gate 
 designed by Anish Kapoor; that 
sculpture is found in this city's Millennium Park. Cantilevered roofing and the use of Roman Brick 
characterize another building in this city, designed in the Prairie Style by Frank Lloyd Wright. For 10 
points, name this city where the Robie House is found in Hyde Park. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
040-12-56-04127 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  7 of 10 
12. This character is vindicated after being accused by Mr. Brocklehurst. At the Lowood School, she looks 
up to one of her teachers, Miss Temple, and befriends Helen Burns, who dies of tuberculosis in her 
presence. This character rejects a proposal from a minister who travels to India. This character is employed 
as a governess for Adele at Thornfield Manor, which is burnt down by Bertha Mason, whom this character 
discovers is the first wife of her employer, Mr. Rochester. For 10 points, name this title character of a 
Charlotte Bronte novel. 
ANSWER:  
Jane 
 Eyre [or Jane  
Eyre 
] 
040-12-56-04128 
13. In one opera by this composer, Adriano is in love with Irene, but both of them die along with the title 
tribune when rebels set the Capitol on fire. Another opera by this composer sees a knight leave Venusberg 
and compete with Wolfram for the love of Elisabeth. In addition to  
Rienzi 
 (ri-EHN-zee) and  
Tannhauser 
(TAHN-hoy-zer), this composer wrote an opera in which Senta’s love saves a man from eternally sailing 
the seven seas. He is best known, however, for a tetralogy that includes  
Das Rheingold 
 and  
Siegfried 
. For 
10 points, name the German composer of  
 The Flying Dutchman 
 and the  
Ring 
 cycle. 
ANSWER: Richard  
Wagner 
141-12-56-04129 
14. 831 \"koban\" in this city are the substations of its police department, which is headquartered in an iconic 
triangular building with a spiraling tower on top. In this city, a large fireworks display is held on the last 
Saturday of July over the Sumida River. Its subway system, the world's busiest, was the target of a sarin gas 
attack in 1995. This city is home to the fashion district Harajuku. For 10 points, name this city, the home of 
the Japanese Imperial Palace. 
ANSWER:  
Tokyo 
088-12-56-04130 
15. This poet wrote \"let age speak the truth and give us peace at last\" in a poem beginning, \"Grow old along 
with me! The best is yet to be.\" This poet of \"Rabbi Ben Ezra\" also wrote a poem which ends by describing 
a statue of Neptune taming the seahorse made by Claus of Innsbruck. That poem describes a woman who 
had a heart \"too soon made glad\" who is \"painted on the wall, looking as if she were alive.\" For 10 points, 
name this Victorian poet of \"My Last Duchess.\" 
ANSWER:  obert  
R Browning 
088-12-56-04131 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 4 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. One of this man's speech's claimed those who \"trade our freedom for security\" were bringing the country 
\"down to the ant heap of totalitarianism.\" That \"A Time for Choosing\" speech was used for Barry 
Goldwater's presidential campaign. In another speech, this President told a fellow leader that if he sought 
peace, prosperity, and liberalization, he should come to a city's gate. That speech also saw this man ask 
\"Mr. Gorbachev\" to \"tear down this wall.\" For 10 points, name this \"Great Communicator\" President. 
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson  
Reagan 
121-12-56-04132 
2. In this work, it is revealed that Felix hatched a plot to release a Turk from prison, thereby winning Safie's 
love and getting himself, Agatha, and De Lacey exiled to a cottage where chopped wood mysteriously 
appears. One character in this work frames Justine Moritz for murder and later murders Henry Clerval and 
blames it on the protagonist. This novel begins with a series of letters from Robert Walton. For 10 points, 
name this work about Victor and his monstrous creation, written by Mary Shelley. 
ANSWER:  
Frankenstein 
124-12-56-04133 
3. Statements involving this concept are formally proven using delta-epsilon proofs. The squeeze theorem 
is used to find unknown ones based on ones already known. In statistics, a theorem named for the central 
one of these states how variables approach the normal distribution. L'Hopital's (LOW-pea-tal's) rule is used 
to find it for indeterminate forms. Functions that have a value for it are called convergent. For 10 points, 
name this concept from calculus that is defined as a fixed value that a function gets infinitely close to. 
ANSWER:  
limit 
066-12-56-04134 
4. In one novel by this writer, a possible loss of inheritance causes Lester Kane to leave the title character, 
who becomes pregnant with the child of George Brander. This author of  
Jennie Gerhardt 
 also created a 
title character who moves in with fellow chorus girl Lola while rising to stardom on Broadway after leaving 
George Hurstwood. Roberta Alden is drowned by Clyde Griffiths in another of his novels. For 10 points, 
name this American writer who wrote  
Sister Carrie 
 and  
An American Tragedy. 
ANSWER: Theodore  
Dreiser 
130-12-56-04135 
5. This letter names a test in statistics to compare two different standard deviations. Six atoms of the 
element denoted by this letter are found in enriched uranium. A quantity denoted by this symbol is equal to 
k times the product of two charges divided by the radius squared according to Coulomb's (KOO-loms) law 
or to big G times mass squared over radius squared. This letter symbolizes the element with the highest 
electronegativity. For 10 points, name this letter that specifies a quantity equal to mass times acceleration. 
ANSWER:   [accept   test before \"this element\"is read] 
F F 
020-12-56-04136 
What term, coined by the pioneer of this field, Norbert Wiener, refers to the study of feedback-modulated 
control systems, including computers, biological systems, and the intersection of the two? 
ANSWER:  
cybernetic 
s 
020-12-56-04137 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  9 of 10 
This is a calculation question. What is the height of a square pyramid whose base has area 16 square units 
and whose surface area is 48 square units? 
ANSWER:   times the square  
2 root 
 of   units [or  
3 2 sqrt(3) 
 units] 
020-12-56-04137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2012     Round 4     Page  10 of 10 
