VHSL Regular Season 
Round 22 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A \"bidirectional\" variation of this algorithm passes through the list twice per iteration and is also called \"shuttle\" or \"cocktail,\" 
and \"odd-even\" sort is a parallel-processing optimized alteration; the first method eliminates the problem of small elements at the 
big-element end, which are called \"turtles\" since they uniquely must travel the full length of the list. For 10 points, name this naïve 
big-oh-of-n-squared sorting algorithm, in which repeated passes are made swapping adjacent out-of-order elements, such that the 
small elements float to the top. 
ANSWER:  
bubble 
 sort 
022-09-2-07101 
2. Archbishop Raul Silva Henriquez brokered an agreement that allowed for the succession to this man's regime, and he was 
succeeded by Patricio Aylwin Azocar. This man oversaw Operation Columbo and his government coordinated with other regional 
countries in Operation Condor. He was arrested in Great Britain in 1998 upon Spain's request for the extradition of this man. For 
10 points name this man who overthrew the government of Salvador Allende to become the longtime dictator of Chile. 
ANSWER:  Augusto  
Pinochet 
030-09-2-07102 
3. The potential of these phenomena can be determined by the six Doodson numbers. These phemonena can be modeled as a sheet 
flow using Laplace's equations for these occurrences, and Ballantine created a scale to measure the exposure of organisms in areas 
impacted by these phenomena. Bores related with these phenomena can travel against the direction of current, and reduced forms 
of these events are labeled neap. For 10 points, name these natural phenomena caused by the gravitational forces of the sun and 
the moon on the Earth's oceans. 
ANSWER:  
Tides 
036-09-2-07103 
4. The narrator of this novel finds a notebook with the sentence “What has our government done to make life easier for the 
Alaskan Eskimos?” written inside. A few days earlier in this work, an accusation of “giving her the time” causes the narrator to 
fight with Stradlater. In 2009, this book’s author filed suit against an unauthorized sequel entitled  
60 Years Later 
. This book 
follows the narrator’s reunion with his sister Phoebe and ambiguous encounter with Mr. Antolini after leaving Pencey Prep. For 
10 points, name this novel about the phony-hating Holden Caulfield by J.D. Salinger. 
ANSWER:    
The  Catcher in the Rye 
019-09-2-07104 
5. This god is sometimes known as the \"drowned one,\" as he drifted in a sarcophagus across the Mediterranean Sea to Byblos. 
After being found again by his wife, his brother became jealous, and cut this god into fourteen pieces. Dead pharaohs were 
associated with this god, who is depicted as the god of the underworld. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god, who fathered Horus 
with his wife and sister Isis. 
ANSWER:   
Osiris 
003-09-2-07105 
6. Meliton Kantaria was the subject of a famous photograph taken at the conclusion of this battle. Vasily Chuikov accepted the 
losing side's surrender at this battle's conclusion. The Volkssturm played a major role in this battle. This battle ended with the 
raising of the Soviet flag above the Reichstag and with Karl Dönitz (DUHr-nitz) becoming the last Führer (FYUHr-er) of the 
Third Reich. For 10 points, name this battle that concluded World War II in Europe, during which Adolf Hitler committed suicide 
in a bunker underneath the namesake city. 
ANSWER:  Battle of  
Berlin 
030-09-2-07106 
7. One character in this show changed the past by preventing his sister's favorite dress from being covered in Slushie. Another 
character returned to being himself after being forced to impersonate a US Senator he had killed. Ali Larter's character, assumed 
dead after being shattered, was shown to have returned at the start of Season Four. Claire and Noah Bennet are both adjusting to 
living on their own in this series. For 10 points, name this NBC series in which the title people, such as Hiro Nakamura, save the 
world from characters like Sylar. 
ANSWER:    
Heroes 
002-09-2-07107 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 22     Page  1 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This composer used strings to accompany the words of Jesus, creating a so-called \"halo\" effect, in his setting of the sufferings 
of Christ. This composer wrote fifteen Two-Part Inventions for his pupils, as well as choral works such as the  
St. Matthew Passion 
. Glenn Gould specialized in playing works of this composer, such as  
The Art of the Fugue 
 and the  
Goldberg Variations 
. For 10 
points, name this eighteenth-century German composer of  
The Well-Tempered Clavier 
 and the  
Brandenburg Concertos 
. 
ANSWER:      ohann  ebastian  
J S Bach 
 [prompt on  
Bach 
; prompt on  ohann  
J Bach 
] 
004-09-2-07108 
9. Howard Hyde Russell was the first superintendent of a league whose name stated that it was anti- these locations. Several of 
these institutions were subject to \"hatchetations\" from Carrie Nation. The Number 10 one of these in Deadwood, South Dakota, 
was where Wild Bill Hickok played his last game of poker. These establishments were often entered through swinging doors still 
sometimes named after them. For 10 points, name these buildings where a man in the Old West could find both entertainment and 
alcohol. 
ANSWER:   
saloon 
s 
003-09-2-07109 
10. When one of these constructs is traced out pictorially, there will exist one or two Dandelin Spheres tangent to the plane that 
traced it out.  Studied in antiquity by Apollonius of Perga, in the two body problem, if the center of mass is assumed to be at rest, 
the paths of the bodies will follow one of these paths.  In polar coordinates, they take the form of   over the quantity one plus  
l e 
times cosine of theta, where   is the semi-latus rectum and   is the eccentricity.  For 10 points, name these mathematical curves 
l e 
that include the ellipse, parabola, and hyperbola. 
ANSWER:   
Conic Sections 
040-09-2-07110 
11. In one story by this author, the mute Lucynell is married off to Tom Shiftlet and observes the title admonition on a billboard. 
Enoch Emery briefly joins the \"Church Without Christ,\" run by Hazel Motes, in a novel by this author of  
Everything that Rises 
Must Converge 
. This woman wrote a story about a family that dines at Red Sammy's on a road trip. That road trip in a work by 
this author is diverted when The Grandmother gives faulty directions and the car rolls into the ditch. For 10 points, name this 
Southern gothic author who created the serial killer The Misfit in \"A Good Man is Hard to Find.\"  
ANSWER:    Mary Flannery  
O'Connor 
020-09-2-07111 
12. This entity was involved in the court case that established the need for public figures or officials to prove actual malice to win 
a libel suit after being sued by Montgomery, Alabama, police commissioner L.B. Sullivan. In another case involving this 
newspaper, a government report leaked by Daniel Ellsberg to the Washington Post and this newspaper resulted in the Supreme 
Court knocking down prior restraint. For 10 points, name this newspaper owned by the Sulzberger family and nicknamed \"The 
Gray Lady.\" 
ANSWER: The  
New York Times 
049-09-2-07112 
13. This piece includes an \"extra\" movement between its scherzo and finale, and its long title describes this work as \"the 
expression of feeling rather than painting.\" Its second movement has the flute, oboe, and clarinet representing the nightingale, 
quail and cuckoo, respectively, and its third movement includes a peasant dance that is interrupted by a thunderstorm. For 10 
points, name this Beethoven symphony about scenes from rural life. 
ANSWER:   
Pastoral  Symphony 
 [or Symphony No.   by  
6 Beethoven 
; or  
Beethoven's Sixth 
 Symphony; or  
Beethoven's Op. 68 
; or 
Symphony No.   by Beethoven after \"Beethoven\"] 
6 
030-09-2-07113 
14. This man was defeated by the forces of Alvaro Obregon at the Battle of Celaya. This man formed the Division of the North 
following the assassination of Francisco Madero. This leader was assassinated at his hacienda in Hidalgo del Parral. This rebel 
executed dozens of U.S. citizens in Santa Isabel and Columbus, New Mexico. For 10 points, name this Mexican bandit who was 
unsuccessfully pursued by General John J. Pershing in a 1916 expedition. 
ANSWER:  Pancho  
Villa 
 [or Francisco  
Villa 
; or Doroteo  
Arango 
] 
030-09-2-07114 
15. This poet asked \"Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?\" in a poem defending his use of satire. This author wrote a poem in 
which the goddess Dulness crowns Colley Cibber as the King of Dunces. This author of \"Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot\"  wrote \"A little 
learning is a dangerous thing\" and \"fools rush in where angels fear to tread\" in his  
An Essay on Criticism 
. For 10 points, name this 
seventeenth-century British poet of  
The Dunciad 
 and  
The Rape of the Lock 
.  
ANSWER:   Alexander  
Pope 
004-09-2-07115 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 22     Page  2 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 22 
Directed Round 
1A. The structure of what organic compound allegedly was revealed to Frederick Kekule when he had a dream about a snake 
eating its own tail? 
ANSWER:    
benzene 
 [or  
benzol 
] 
1B. What man failed to avoid a runoff in his August 2009 reelection bid to maintain Afghanistan's presidency? 
ANSWER:   Hamid  
Karzai 
2A. What Massachusetts Senator passed away in August 2009 after suffering from a brain tumor? 
ANSWER:   Edward Moore \"Ted\"  
Kennedy 
2B. What form of understatement is exemplified by saying \"not unattractive\" instead of \"attractive?\" 
ANSWER:    
litotes 
3A. The Bonneville Flats are near what body of water that is at the base of the Wasatch Range and whose namesake city is the 
capital of Utah? 
ANSWER:   The  
Great Salt Lake 
 [do not accept \"Salt Lake City\"] 
3B. What sculptor created the first freestanding nude since antiquity with his bronze  
David 
, and also sculpted the equestrian  
Gattamelata 
. 
ANSWER:    
Donatello 
 [or Donato di Niccolo di Betto  
Bardi 
] 
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the sum of the infinite series beginning 1, 1/2, 1/4,...? 
ANSWER:      
2 
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the sum of the exterior angles of a dodecagon? 
ANSWER:      
360 
5A. What type of volcano is exemplified by the gently sloping sides of the Hawaiian island volcanoes? 
ANSWER:    
shield 
 volcano 
5B. What model organism is a type of insect that was first extensively used by Thomas Hunt Morgan? 
ANSWER:    
fruit flies 
 [or  
Drosophila  melanogaster 
; or  
D. melanogaster; or  
pomace fly 
; or  
vinegar fly 
; or  
wine fly_] 
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. Factor the following expression: x squared plus 23 x plus 130. 
ANSWER:      
(x+10)(x+13) 
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. How much money is 3 quarters, 5 dimes, 7 nickels, and 9 pennies? 
ANSWER:      
1.69 
7A. Along with \"estar,\" what is the other infinitive form of the verb \"to be\" in Spanish? 
ANSWER:    
ser 
7B. What baseball player attended Maple Woods Community College and currently stars as the first baseman for the St. Louis 
Cardinals? 
ANSWER:   Albert  
Pujols 
 [or Jose Alberto Pujols Alcantara] 
8A. Philip Nolan is the Aaron Burr-befriending title character of what Edward Everett Hale short story about a person with no 
homeland? 
ANSWER:   \"The  
Man without a Country 
\" 
8B. Who invented the automatic stock ticker and the phonograph? 
ANSWER:   Thomas Alva  
Edison 
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. In their first year of college, students must take one or two of the following classes: 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 22     Page  3 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Freshman English, Freshman Calculus, and Freshman Chemistry. In a group of 200 students surveyed, 150 took English, 100 took 
Calculus, and 75 took Chemistry. If 50 students took both English and Calculus, but not Chemistry, and 25 students took both 
Calculus and Chemistry, but not English, how many students did not take Calculus? 
ANSWER:      
100 
 students 
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. In his Algebra class, Timmy's final grade is based upon his score on 3 midterm tests 
and 1 final exam. Each test is worth 20 percent and the exam is worth 40 percent of his grade. Assuming a passing grade is 70 
percent, what grade must Timmy make on his final exam to pass, given that on the three midterms, Timmy's scores were 75, 40, 
and 65 respectively? 
ANSWER:       percent 
85 
10A. What artist is noted for songs like \"Shake Ya Tailfeather,\" \"Country Grammar,\" and \"Hot in Here?\" 
ANSWER:    
Nelly 
 [or Cornell  
Haynes 
 Jr.] 
10B. In economics, give the term that refers to the ratio of the percent change in one variable to the percent change in another. 
ANSWER:    
elasticity 
026-09-2-07116 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 22     Page  4 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 22 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One statement of opposition to these laws was the Suffolk Resolves. One component of these laws introduced French civil law 
and toleration of Catholics to a certain region. Another of these laws installed Thomas Gage as military governor, revoking the 
colonial charter of Massachussets. Other laws in this group required the quartering of troops in private homes and closed the port 
of Boston until payment was received for destroyed tea. For 10 points, name this set of four laws that were issued by the British 
cabinet in 1774 in response to the Boston Tea Party, and which American colonists could not bear obeying. 
ANSWER:   
Intolerable 
 Acts [or  
Coercive 
 Acts] 
019-09-2-07117 
2. One title used for this man is \"Father of Dust,\" and during the Battle of Khaybar, this man tore off the door of a fort and used it 
as a shield. This man's forces were victorious at the Battle of the Camel. This man slept in Muhammad's bed as a decoy to 
Muhammad's attempted assassins during the Hegira. Some sources claim that this man was the only person born in the Ka'bah, 
and after Khadijah, he is said to be the second convert to Islam. For 10 points, name this husband of Muhammad's daughter 
Fatima, the first Imam of Shia Islam. 
ANSWER:  
Ali 
 [or  
Ali 
 ibn Abi Talib] 
030-09-2-07118 
3. This writer focused on his survival after being imprisoned on false evidence in his prison memoir  
The Man Died 
. This author 
wrote about the clash between Oba Danlola and the title dictator in his work  
Kongi’s Feast 
. In another work by this man, Simon 
Pilkings causes a panic in the village of Oyo when he prevents Elesin from fulfilling his duty towards the alafin. He also wrote 
about Sidi, a beautiful girl lusted after by the village chief Baroka. For 10 points, name this first African winner of the Nobel 
Prize, a Nigerian playwright of  
Death and the King’s Horseman 
 and  
The Lion and the Jewel 
. 
ANSWER:   Akinwande Oluwole  
Soyinka 
034-09-2-07119 
4. This ruler faced opposition when he attempted to levy the ship money tax inland during peacetime. A list of grievances, the 
Grand Remonstrance, was presented to this monarch by John Pym. This king appointed William Laud as Archbishop of 
Canterbury. This man's disregard of the Petition of Right during the Eleven Years Tyranny eventually contributed to the outbreak 
of the Bishops War and another conflict. For 10 points, name this monarch who fought with parliament in the English Civil War, 
only to be defeated by the forces of Oliver Cromwell and beheaded. 
ANSWER:   
Charles I 
 of England, Ireland, and Scotland [prompt on  
Charles 
] 
035-09-2-07120 
5. This book ends with the protagonist dreaming about African lions. One character in this book fears that the Cleveland Indians 
will defeat the Yankees, but the protagonist reminds him that the Yankees have \"the great DiMaggio.\" That character, Manolin, is 
an apprentice to the title character, who has gone eighty-four days without catching a fish. The title character, Santiago, battles 
with a marlin on the eighty-fifth day. For 10 points, name this novella by Ernest Hemingway. 
ANSWER:    
The  Old Man and the Sea 
024-09-2-07121 
6. When \"pellucidum\" is appended to this word, it describes a brain structure that runs from the corpus callosum to the fornix.  A 
defect of another structure with this name allows blood to pass from the left to right atrium. Another structure with this name can 
potentially deviate enough to cause abnormal breathing.  For 10 points, give this term that comes from the Latin for \"wall,\" which 
describes the divider between the two nostrils of the nose. 
ANSWER:   
septum 
003-09-2-07122 
7. One of these conflicts was incited by the surprise at Meaux, which followed the Edict of St. Germain. One of the namesake 
figures of one war in this series was the Duke of Guise, one of the \"Three Henrys.\" Catherine de Medici ordered one brutal 
occurrence during this series of conflicts. These conflicts were ended by Henry IV's conversion to Catholicism. For 10 points, 
name this series of 16th-century wars, which included the St. Barthlomew's Day Massacre, between Huguenots and Catholics. 
ANSWER:  French  
Wars of Religion 
038-09-2-07123 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 22     Page  5 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Current lags voltage in these circuit components by ninety degrees. The potential energy stored in one of these devices is equal 
to \"one-half current squared times\" a namesake quantity. These devices create a reactance proportional to \"2 pi times the 
frequency,\" causing them to resist the flow of alternating current. These devices often consist of a coiled wire, and Faraday's Law 
describes how electric current through one of these creates a magnetic field. For 10 points, name these devices which have a 
namesake property symbolized L and measured in Henries. 
ANSWER:  
inductor 
s 
028-09-2-07124 
9. This author imagined Satan as a three-faced demon chewing on the heads of Cassius, Brutus, and Judas Iscariot. In one work, 
this author described riding the back of Geryon to reach Malebolge and meeting the adulterous lovers Paolo and Francesca. In that 
work, this author is guided by Virgil and Beatrice through hell, purgatory, and heaven. For 10 points, name this medieval Italian 
poet who wrote the  
Paradiso 
 and  
Inferno 
 sections of his  
The Divine Comedy 
. 
ANSWER:    
Dante 
 Alighieri [or Dante  
Alighieri 
] 
004-09-2-07125 
10. Idmon joined this group although he knew it would lead to his own death. This group encountered the seer Phineus, whose 
food was eaten by Harpies until two members of this group, Calais and Zetes, drove them off. Heracles abandoned this group to 
search for Hylas, and Orpheus kept this group from being enticed by the sirens. Their leader, Jason, married Medea on their 
voyage back from Colchis. For 10 points, name this group of Greek adventurers, who set off in their namesake ship to find the 
Golden Fleece. 
ANSWER:  
Argonauts 
003-09-2-07126 
11. In Tintoretto's version of this painting, fire flowing from a lamp in the upper left illuminates swirling spirits. Salvador Dali's 
version of this painting shows the central character blond, and features a transparent torso floating above the scene. This painting 
emerged from a twenty one year restoration in 1999. The central figure's head is the vanishing point for all the perspective lines in 
this painting, in which one of the thirteen figures holds a knife and two point at the same loaf of bread. For 10 points, name this 
Leonardo da Vinci work depicting the final meal of Jesus. 
ANSWER:   
The  Last Supper 
015-09-2-07127 
12. This author included his \"Big Space\" and \"The King of Harlem\" in a collection inspired by his visit to the United States,  
The 
Poet in New York 
. This man elegized Ignacio Sánchez Mejías (ig-NAH-shee-oh SAHN-chez meh-HEE-ahs), a renowned matador, 
in his \"Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter.\" One of his plays describe a period of enforced mourning in the title abode. In 
another of his plays, Leonardo and the Bridegroom kill each other under the full moon. For 10 points, what Spanish author of  
The 
House of Bernarda Alba 
 and  
Blood Wedding 
 was killed by Fascists in 1936? 
ANSWER:    Federico Garcia  
Lorca 
019-09-2-07128 
13. This body's necrosis due to blood loss from childbirth is known as Sheehan's syndrome. In developing embryos, part of this 
structure forms from Rathke's pouch, and it is located in a depression known as the sella turcica, which is found in the sphenoid 
bone. Herring bodies are found in the axons that connect this entity to the hypothalamus. It regulates the body's water content by 
releasing vasopressin from its posterior lobe. For 10 points, name this \"master gland\" that releases prolactin and sits at the base of 
the brain. 
ANSWER:   
pituitary 
 gland 
026-09-2-07129 
14. One short story by this author explains how Mrs. Sommers spends fifteen dollars. This author wrote a novel about Therese 
Lafirme's love for David Hosmer in Natchitoches. A short story by this author is about Louise's reaction when she discovers 
Brentley Mallard isn't actually dead. In addition to \"A Pair of Silk Stockings,\"  
At Fault 
, and \"Story of An Hour,\" this author wrote 
about a woman who has an affair with Alcée Arobin in another novel. In that novel by this author, the protagonist vacations at 
Grande Isle and loves Robert LeBrun. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Edna Pontellier in  
The Awakening 
. 
ANSWER:   Kate  
Chopin 
 [or Catherine  
O'Flaherty 
] 
036-09-2-07130 
15. Along with table salt, ammonia, and carbon dioxide, this compound is an input in the Solvay process.  It is a byproduct of the 
Ostwald process used to make nitric acid, and this compound notably has explosive reactions with several pure alkali metals.  
Combustion of hydrocarbons produces carbon dioxide and this compound, which reacts with strong acids to form hydronium ions. 
For 10 points, name this compound sometimes jokingly referred to as \"dihydrogen monoxide.\" 
ANSWER:  
water 
 [or  
H2O 
] 
003-09-2-07131 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 22     Page  6 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 22 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. The Dan River flows into this river in the Hulah Valley, and the Yarmouk River connects the Hauran Plateau to this river's 
watershed. A main source of this river is melting snow from Mount Hermon, and this river flows just west of the Golan Heights. 
This river plunges below sea level before reaching the Sea of Galilee and forming the border of the West Bank. For 10 points, 
name this river that flows into the Dead Sea, which separates Israel and a nation of this river's name. 
ANSWER:  
Jordan 
 River 
036-09-2-07132 
2. This author wrote \"there is neither East nor West, Border, nor Breed, nor Birth / When two strong men stand face to face, tho' 
they come from the ends of the earth!\" in a poem asserting \"East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet.\" This 
author wrote a poem about a British soldier who tells a water-carrier \"you're a better man than I am,\" as well as several stories 
about the tiger Shere Khan and the wolf-child Mowgli. For 10 points, name this British author who wrote about India in \"Gunga 
Din\" and The Jungle Book.  
ANSWER:   Rudyard  
Kipling 
004-09-2-07133 
3. PSI+, one of these structures in yeast, may be evolutionarily beneficial. The creation of these entities is related to gene CD230, 
which is located on the short arm of chromosome 20. PrP becomes mutated in diseases related to these entities, and they can create 
tissue deposits that resemble amyloidosis (AM-ill-oy-DOSE-iss). They cause diseases like kuru, scrapie, and Creutzfeld-Jakob 
disease. For 10 points, name these misfolded proteins that can also cause \"mad cow\" disease. 
ANSWER:   
prion 
s [or  
proteinaceous infectious 
 agent] 
026-09-2-07134 
4. This quantity is modeled for different groups substituted on a benzene ring via the Hammett equation. One measure for this 
quantity takes the average energy of a free atom's valence electrons and is named for Allen. A simple measure for this quantity is 
equal to the mean of first ionization energy and electron affinity, named for Mulliken, though it is more often measured on the 
Pauling scale, which gives fluorine a value of 3.98. For 10 points, give this quantity that represents the degree to which an atom or 
group attracts electron density. 
ANSWER:  
electronegativity 
022-09-2-07135 
5. The written form of this language uses the letter combination \"s z\" to represent the English \"s\" sound. Because it is a Uralic 
language, it exhibits a phenomenon that is also characteristic of Turkish, vowel harmony. This language shares a group with 
Mansi, Khanty, and the Ob-Ugric languages within the Finno-Ugric family. This language is not Indo-European, though its 
speakers are normally surrounded by speakers of Germanic and Slavic languages in Central Europe. For 10 points, identify this 
language, which was the native tongue of Leo Szilard, Bela Bartok, and Franz Liszt. 
ANSWER:  
Hungarian 
 [or  
Magyar 
] 
019-09-2-07136 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 22     Page  7 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
