VHSL Regionals 2012 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In the mid-twentieth century, two men who each served eleven years in this office were seen as leaders 
of the liberal wing of the Republican Party. In addition to Thomas Dewey and Nelson Rockefeller, this 
office was held by Al Smith twice and, during his first succesful Presidential campaign, Franklin 
Roosevelt. From 1983 to 2006, it was held by two people, Mario Cuomo and George Pataki. For 10 points, 
identify this state executive office that, in 2010, was won by Mario's son Andrew Cuomo. 
ANSWER:  
Governor 
 of  
New York 
 [prompt on  
governor 
] 
019-12-55-05101 
2. These entities were first discovered by the Swiss scientist Fritz Zwicky. The search for the ordinary 
counterparts of these entities comprises the massive compact halo object project. These entities are 
theorized to be made up of weak interacting massive particles or WIMPS. These entities were originally 
known as just missing mass. For 10 points, name this component of the universe whose presence is 
detected by its gravitational attraction rather than its luminosity or lack thereof. 
ANSWER:  
dark matter 
 [do not accept dark energy] 
130-12-55-05102 
3. Before this river reaches the Bateke (bah-TEH-kay) Plateau, it receives water from two of its main 
tributaries, the Ubangi (oo-BON-gee) and Sangha. Part of this river includes Inga Falls, which are part of 
the Livingstone Falls, and this river’s Boyoma Falls were once called Stanley Falls. Bamu Island is located 
in an extension of this river called Malebo Pool, which borders the capital cities Brazzaville and Kinshasa. 
For 10 points, name this second-longest African river, that shares its name with two countries. 
ANSWER:  
Congo 
 River 
023-12-55-05103 
4. This man sparked a revival in Northampton with a series of sermons on \"Justification by Faith Alone.\" 
This preacher was dismissed by that congregation over his interpretation of the Halfway Covenant. This 
man preached \"that God holds you over the pit of hell, much as one holds a spider, or some loathsome 
insect over the fire.\" For 10 points, name this leader of the First Great Awakening who delivered the 
sermon \"Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God.\" 
ANSWER: Jonathan  
Edwards 
105-12-55-05104 
5. This commander was court-martialed for going AWOL to visit his wife when he was supposed to be 
joining Winfield Scott Hancock at Fort Harker in Kansas. He led the expedition to destroy Black Kettle's 
Cheyenne village in 1868. He made his name by hounding Robert E. Lee at the end of the Civil War. 
Ordered to clear Sioux from the Black Hills, he encountered Crazy Horse's men, who killed all of this 
man's forces. For 10 points, name this man who made his \"last stand\" at Little Bighorn. 
ANSWER: George Armstrong  
Custer 
019-12-55-05105 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  1 of 10 
6. The author of this work catalogues his previous works in a section apologizing for vulgar material 
known as his namesake “retraction.” In one section of this work, an ugly old wife becomes young and 
beautiful when her husband concedes sovereignty to her. In another, the student Nicholas is branded on the 
bottom by Absolon. Narrators of stories in this collection include the Pardoner, the Wife of Bath, and the 
Miller. For 10 points, name this unfinished collection of tales by Geoffrey Chaucer. 
ANSWER:  
The  Canterbury Tales 
014-12-55-05106 
7. During World War II, this man was tasked with developing replacements for cloth dyes whose import 
from Europe was cut off. In 1914, a need to replace the failing cotton crop from a boll weevil epidemic led 
to a public disclosure of his earlier experiments. He was hired by Booker T. Washington to head the 
agricultural department at the Tuskegee Institute, where he found over three hundred uses for a legume 
(lay-GOOM). For 10 points, name this scientist who is credited with saving the Southern economy through 
his work with peanuts. 
ANSWER: George Washington  
Carver 
019-12-55-05107 
8. In one novel by this writer, the title character's second husband escapes to France as a fugitive from the 
law and is known as the Draper. Later in that novel, the title character reunites in America with her 
Lancashire husband Jemmy. In another novel by this writer, a god called Benamuckee is worshipped by the 
protagonist's companion, Friday. For 10 points, name this English novelist who wrote  
Moll Flanders 
 and 
created the shipwrecked title character in  
Robinson Crusoe. 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Defoe 
130-12-55-05108 
9. One D-major work by this man may have been written for the five-string viola pomposa, while a 
C-minor work in the same genre requires the A string to be re-tuned to G. Those pieces popularized by 
Pablo Casals (ka-SAHLZ) are this man's cello suites. This man helped relieve the insomnia of Count 
Kaiserling by composing the  
Goldberg Variations 
, while a German margrave commissioned his  
Brandenburg Concertos. 
 For 10 points, name this Baroque composer of  
The Art of Fugue 
 and  
The 
Well-Tempered Clavier. 
ANSWER:  ohann  ebastian  
J S Bach 
 [prompt on \"Bach\"] 
080-12-55-05109 
10. The Starling equation describes forces along these structures. Podocytes (POH-doh-sites) wrap around 
one set of these structures in the kidney. Pores are found in the endothelial (en-doh-THEE-lee-ull) cells 
surrounding this structure in the fenestrated (FEN-uh-stray-ted) variety. The more metabolically active a 
tissue is, the more of these structures it will require. These structures exchange nutrients with surrounding 
tissue and are only 1 cell thick. For 10 points, name these structures found in \"beds,\" the smallest type of 
blood vessel. 
ANSWER:  
capillary 
 [or  
capillaries 
; prompt on blood  
vessel 
s] 
020-12-55-05110 
11. In one play by this author, Death appears as a beggar woman, and Leonardo and The Groom die in a 
knife fight in the forest over their love for The Bride. In another play by this man, Adela hangs herself and 
Pepe is driven away by a woman who dominates the lives of her five daughters. A member of the 
Generation of ’27, this author may be best known for three plays referred to as his “rural trilogy.” For 10 
points, name the Spanish playwright of  
Blood Wedding 
 and  
The House of Bernarda Alba. 
ANSWER: Federico Garcia  
Lorca 
140-12-55-05111 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  2 of 10 
12. Some members of this phylum exhibit pincer-like organs called pedicellariae 
(peh-dih-seh-LARE-ree-ay). The larval development of members of this phylum includes a shift from 
bilateral symmetry to radial symmetry. Some members of this phylum consume their food using a structure 
known as Aristotle’s lantern, and members of this phylum use tube feet powered by the water-vascular 
system. For 10 points, name this phylum of aquatic animals which includes sea cucumbers, sea urchins, and 
starfish. 
ANSWER:  
Echinodermata 
 [or  
Echinoderm 
s] 
014-12-55-05112 
13. One philosopher from this movement used the example of an obsequious (ub-SEE-quee-us) cafe waiter 
to illustrate \"bad faith\" and delivered a lecture claiming that this philosophy \"is a Humanism.\" This 
philosophical movement was influenced by the earlier philosophy of Soren Kierkegaard (KEERK-uh-gard), 
and it claims that humans must create their own meanings, value systems, and selves, which are not 
objective facts. For 10 points, name this philosophy propounded by Jean-Paul Sartre (SART-ruh), which 
claims that \"existence precedes essence.\" 
ANSWER:  
existentialism 
080-12-55-05113 
14. This process is sped up by the fusion of its namesake “bubbles” that end in its namesake y-shaped 
“forks.” It sees the production of small Okazaki fragments. The semiconservative model of this process 
was supported by the Meselsohn-Stahl experiment. The enzyme topisomerase (toh-poh-iy-SAH-mer-ase) is 
employed to cut and reseal the phosphate backbone during this process, which also employs helicase 
(HEEL-ih-case) to unwind the double helix. For 10 points, name this process that creates a second copy of 
a cell’s genetic information. 
ANSWER:  
DNA Replication 
 [accept equivalents; prompt on  
replication 
] 
080-12-55-05114 
15. In one song by this band, the singer describes a \"big legged woman\" that \"spent my money, took my 
car, started tellin' her friend she goin' be a star.\" This band, that recorded \"Black Dog,\" was known as The 
New Yardbirds before signing on singer Robert Plant and drummer John Paul Jones. Their most famous 
song is about a \"lady who's sure all that glitters is gold\" who is attempting to buy the title object. For 10 
points, name this British rock band fronted by Jimmy Page that recorded \"Stairway to Heaven.\" 
ANSWER:  
Led Zeppelin 
080-12-55-05115 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2012 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  What Greek goddess of the hunt was the twin sister of Apollo? 
ANSWER:  
Artemis 
1B.  What grandson of a Mongol conqueror established the Yuan (WON) dynasty in China and was visited 
by Marco Polo? 
ANSWER:  
Kublai 
 Khan [or  
Kubla 
 Khan; or  
Khubilai 
 Khan; or  
Shizu 
] 
2A.  What literary term indicates the repetition of a particular sound at the beginning of stressed syllables? 
ANSWER:  
alliteration 
2B.  Mariano Rajoy [Ra-HOI] of the People’s Party became the prime minister of what country in its 2011 
elections? 
ANSWER:  
Spain 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What are the roots of the equation x  - 1? 
4 
ANSWER:  
plus or minus i 
 and  
plus or minus 1 
 [or x =  , x =  , x =   and x =  ; all answers are required; 
i -i 1 -1 
accept answers in any order] 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. If sine squared theta is .6, what is tangent squared theta? 
ANSWER:  
3/2 
 [or  
1.5 
; or  
.6/.4 
] 
4A.  During the Reconstruction era, what name was used to describe Northerners who moved to the South? 
ANSWER:  
carpetbagger 
s 
4B.  Name the river which passes through Great Falls, Omaha, and Kansas City. 
ANSWER:  
Missouri 
 River 
5A.  In what play do Algernon Moncrieff and Jack Worthing discover that they are brothers? 
ANSWER:  
The  Importance of Being Earnest 
5B.  What French novelist wrote about Julien Sorel (suh-RELL) in  
The Red and the Black 
? 
ANSWER:  
Stendhal 
 [or Marie-Henri  
Beyle 
] 
6A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. A bag has four blue marbles, five clear marbles, and two red 
marbles. What is the probability of choosing a red marble, a clear marble, and then a blue marble in order 
without replacement? 
ANSWER:  
4/99 
6B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. The diameter of a circle is one side of a triangle inscribed in 
the circle, and the other two sides of the triangle have lengths 7 and 24. What is the circumference of the 
circle? 
ANSWER:  
25pi 
 [or  
25 times pi 
; or  
78.5 
] 
7A.  What force has both static and kinetic types and works to slow down an object in motion along a 
surface? 
ANSWER:  
friction 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  4 of 10 
7B.  The Three Steps were used by Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary on their ascent to the peak of what 
mountain? 
ANSWER: Mount  
Everest 
 [or  
Chomolungma 
; or  
Qomolangma 
; or  
Holy Mother 
; or  
Sagarmatha 
] 
8A.  What flows of water are mostly driven by wind when found on the surface and include the Gulf 
Stream and the Antarctic Circumpolar one, the largest in terms of volume? 
ANSWER: ocean  
current 
s 
8B.  What pop artist is known for painting Campbell’s soup cans? 
ANSWER: Andy  
Warhol 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the cosine of 15 degrees times the cosine of 120 
degrees? 
ANSWER:   square  
- root 
 of  
2 - 
 square  
root 
 of   all  
6 divided by 8 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the standard deviation of the set of numbers 4, 7, 3, 
and 10? 
ANSWER:  
square root of 7.5 
 [or square  
root 
 of  
30 over 2 
] 
10A.  What former Red Sox player holds the record for the most batting titles by a third baseman and 
supposedly ate a chicken before each game? 
ANSWER: Wade  
Boggs 
10B.  What blind Italian tenor is famed for his song “Con te partirò” (con TAY par-tee-ROH)? 
ANSWER: Andrea  
Bocelli 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2012 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In 1978, this politician relied on the support of local mothers to defeat Robert Gammage for a House 
seat. This politician has started organizations such as Foundations for Rational Economics and Education, 
and Campaign for Liberty. His namesake \"survival report,\" which he said was ghost-written by Lew 
Rockwell, made racist statements about the black population of Washington, D.C. In 2010, the Senate seat 
from Kentucky was won by his son Rand. For 10 points, name this Texas Congressman, gold standard fan, 
and 2012 Republican Presidential candidate. 
ANSWER: Ronald Ernest  
Paul 
130-12-55-05117 
2. This poet wrote of finding \"a dimpled spider, fat and white\" and wondered, \"What but design of darkness 
to appall?\" in his poem \"Design.\" He wrote another poem in which the speaker states, \"I could say 'Elves' to 
him, but it's not elves exactly,\" and claims that \"spring is the mischief in me.\" This author of a poem in 
which \"good fences make good neighbors\" also wrote of paths \"diverging in a yellow wood\" in another 
poem. For 10 points, identify this American poet, the author of \"Mending Wall\" and \"The Road Not 
Taken.\" 
ANSWER: Robert Lee  
Frost 
126-12-55-05118 
3. A dwarf galaxy discovered in 2003 in this constellation is the closest known galaxy to the Milky Way. 
Stars in this constellation include Adhara, Wezen (WAY-zen), and Murzim. This constellation is separated 
from a similarly named one by Monoceros (mah-no-SER-os) to its north. Its alpha star forms the Winter 
Triangle with Procyon (PRO-kee-on) and Betelgeuse (beetle juice), and is also the brightest star in the night 
sky. For 10 points, name this constellation whose brightest star is Sirius, with a name meaning “greater 
dog.” 
ANSWER:  
Canis Major 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"Canis\"] 
132-12-55-05119 
4. In one work by this man, a college student faints at Sickler's after arguing with her boyfriend over her 
book,  
The Way of the Pilgrim. 
 In another story, that woman's brother helps her after reading the diary of 
their older brother, Seymour. Seymour kills himself at the beach in this man's short story, “A Perfect Day 
for Bananafish.” This creator of the Glass family also wrote a novel about a boy who leaves Pencey Prep 
and visits his sister Phoebe. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Catcher in the Rye. 
ANSWER: Jerome David  
Salinger 
121-12-55-05120 
5. During this man's rule, Arminius defeated Varus's forces in Teutoburg Forest, stopping Roman 
expansion east of the Rhine. The death of Lepidus allowed this man to succeed him as pontifex maximus, 
the head of Roman religion. This man was once part of the Second Triumvirate with Lepidus and Mark 
Antony. He used Mark Antony's divorce of his sister as a pretext to go to war, and defeated Antony and 
Cleopatra at the Battle of Actium. For 10 points, name this first Roman emperor 
ANSWER:  
Augustus 
 Caesar [or Gaius Julius Caesar  
Octavian 
us; or Gaius  
Octavius 
] 
121-12-55-05121 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  6 of 10 
6. This author documented the lives of the London poor in  
The People of the Abyss. 
 In one of his novels, 
the journalist Humphrey van Weyden is rescued by Wolf Larsen when he is thrown off the San Francisco 
ferry. The protagonist of another of this man’s novels defeats Spitz after being kidnapped by Judge 
Miller’s gardener. The protagonist of that novel avenges John Thornton after being brought to the Yukon. 
For 10 points, name this author of  
The Sea Wolf 
 who wrote about the dog Buck in  
The Call of the Wild. 
ANSWER: Jack  
London 
 [or John Griffith  
Chaney 
] 
015-12-55-05122 
7. This ruler reorganized his country into subdivisions called  
guberniya. 
 (GOO-ber-nee-ya) He sent his first 
wife Eudoxia (OOH-dox-ee-a) to a convent. This ruler initially reigned as co-ruler with his half-brother 
Ivan V. He expanded his territory with the Treaty of Nystad. This ruler's troops lost at Narva, though he 
later won at Poltava over Charles XII of Sweden. After winning the Great Northern War, this tsar built a 
new capital on the Baltic. For 10 points, name this Russian tsar known as \"the Great.\" 
ANSWER:  
Peter the Great 
 [or  
Peter I 
; or  
Peter 
 after \"Great\" is read; prompt on  
Peter 
 before \"Great\" is 
read] 
014-12-55-05123 
8. This state is the setting of Walker Percy’s novel  
The Moviegoer 
 and the hometown of Ignatius J. Reilly. 
George Washington Cable wrote about a certain subculture in this state, whose racial tensions are explored 
in the short story “Desiree’s Baby.” This setting of  
The Grandissimes 
 (GRAND-ih-seems) and  
A 
Confederacy of Dunces 
 is also the setting of a novel in which Edna Pontellier (pahn-TELL-ee-ay) drowns 
herself. For 10 points, Kate Chopin wrote about the Acadian subculture of what state? 
ANSWER:  
Louisiana 
131-12-55-05124 
9. The Peace of Antalcidas (ANT-all-CEE-das) was used by this city-state's king Agesilaus 
(AHH-jess-ill-EYY-us) II to break up the Boeotian (BOH-eeth-an) League. Another king of this city, 
Cleombrotus, lost to Thebes at the Battle of Leuctra (LOOC-tra). This city had a group of leaders named 
ephors (EE-fors) who helped control this city's slaves, known as helots (HELL-ots). One king of this city 
led a fight to the last man against a Persian advance at the Battle of Thermopylae (ther-MOP-uh-lye). For 
10 points, name this Greek city-state led by Leonidas and rival to Athens. 
ANSWER:  
Sparta 
 [or  
Lacedaemon 
] 
023-12-55-05125 
10. One unique dialect of this language is spoken in Colonia Tovar, Venezuela, and is called Alemán 
(ah-lay-MON) Coloniero. In its 1996 spelling reform, this language's written form increased the use of a 
character that only has a lowercase version; that character, which now appears after long vowels and before 
consonants instead of a double \"s,\" is the eszett (EZZ-set). All nouns are capitalized in this language, which 
also puts umlauts (OOM-louts) above certain vowels. For 10 points, name this primary language of 
Liechtenstein, Austria, and Berlin. 
ANSWER:  
German 
 [accept  
Deutsch 
] 
141-12-55-05126 
11. One character on this show bankrupted his hometown with the construction of Ice Town. That character 
moved in with the guitarist for the band \"Mouserat,\" who works at a shoeshine stand. A Harvest Festival on 
this show featured the miniature horse Li'l Sebastian. When the city of Pawnee became bankrupt, Chris 
Traeger became the City Manager on this mockumentary. For 10 points, name this NBC show on which 
Amy Poehler plays Leslie Knope, the Deputy Director of the title department. 
ANSWER:  
Parks and Recreation 
002-12-55-05127 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  7 of 10 
12. Hans Landolt discovered a type of clock reaction named for this element that turns dark blue. Tablets of 
a salt of this element and potassium are handed out during nuclear accidents to protect from certain 
emissions. All salts containing chlorine, bromine and this element are soluble unless they contain silver, 
lead or mercury. Because kelp contains the ion of this element bonded to potassium, it is used to treat a 
goiter, or swelling in the thyroid gland. For 10 points, name this element used to fortify table salt. 
ANSWER:  
iodine 
 [prompt on  ] 
I 
066-12-55-05128 
13. This man appears along with a wet airborne cat in a photograph of him by Philippe Halsman. One of his 
paintings shows copies of the Venus de Milo wearing red and green robes inside a bullfighting ring. He 
collaborated with director Luis Bunuel (BOON-yel) to create a short film containing a scene in which an 
eyeball is sliced open by a razor. For 10 points, name this creator of  
The Hallucinogenic Toreador 
 and  
Un 
Chien (SHEE-en) Andalou, 
 an artist who painted melting clocks in  
The Persistence of Memory. 
ANSWER: Salvador  
Dali 
132-12-55-05129 
14. The lowest temperature at which this reaction can occur is called the flash point. NO  is formed at 
x 
sufficiently high temperatures for this reaction even though nitrogen gas is not involved in it. When this 
reaction is incomplete, carbon monoxide is formed. Two, four, and six stroke machines are varieties of the 
\"internal\" \"engine\" in which it takes place. This reaction takes a hydrocarbon and forms water vapor and 
carbon dioxide. For 10 points, name this reaction that produces heat and light, often in the form of fire. 
ANSWER:  
combustion 
 [or  
burning 
; prompt on  
ignition 
] 
020-12-55-05130 
15. In C and C++ (C-plus-plus), the empty string is denoted by a backslash followed by this symbol. In the 
one’s complement system, it has both positive and negative versions. In Java, arrays are indexed starting 
with this number, and this number fills every entry in a newly instantiated array of ints. Dividing by this 
number sometimes returns “NaN,” or “not a number.” For 10 points, identify this number which 
corresponds to “false” in binary, a system which uses only it and the number one. 
ANSWER:  
zero 
132-12-55-05131 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2012 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. During Puja, adherents of this religion reflect on statues with srivatsa (shri-VOT-suh) on their chests. 
Two sects of this religion are the Shvetembers (SVET-em-barz), who wear white, and the \"sky-clad\" 
Digambers (DEE-gom-barz), who wear no clothes. Adherents of this religion seek Moksha by adhering to 
five principles that include Asteya (oss-TAY-uh), Satya (SOT-yuh), and Ahimsa (uh-HIM-suh). Mahavira 
(mah-hah-VEER-uh) was the first of this religion's Tirthankaras (TEER-ton-KAR-uhz). For 10 points, 
name this religion whose adherents sweep the ground of insects and practice vegetarianism as part of their 
principle of total nonviolence. 
ANSWER:  
Jain 
ism 
124-12-55-05132 
2. In this novel, those living in Methwold’s Estate are led by a violent American girl named Evie Lilith 
Burns, the first love of this novel’s protagonist. By consuming bread baked by Catholic nuns, the 
protagonist’s sister retains characteristics of her former self, the Brass Monkey. The veracity of this 
novel’s plot is questioned by the protagonist’s wife Padma. In this novel, Shiva and Saleem Sinai are 
switched at birth, which coincides with the exact moment of India’s independence. For 10 points, name 
this novel by Salman Rushdie. 
ANSWER:  
Midnight’s Children 
130-12-55-05133 
3. This man names the set of complex numbers a + b i such that a and b are both integers, his namesake 
integers. A law that relates the flux to the volume, often called the divergence theorem, is typically named 
for this man. With a French mathematician, he names a method of using arithmetic on rows to reduce a 
matrix to reduced row echelon (EH-sheh-lon) form. That method is a form of elimination with Jordan. For 
10 points, name this German mathematician who names the normal distribution. 
ANSWER: Johann Carl Friedrich  
Gauss 
080-12-55-05134 
4. A gradient of these particles provides the energy of ATPase. Drugs like Prilosec help treat heart burn by 
inhibiting compounds that pump these particles. In the body, the amino acids lysine (LIE-seen) and 
arginine (AR-gih-nine) bear an extra one of these particles. In an aqueous solution, this particle exists as the 
compound hydronium. According to Bronsted-Lowry theory, a base can accept these particles that define 
the atomic number. For 10 points, name this positively charged particle found in the nucleus. 
ANSWER:  
proton 
 (prompt on  
H 
+ 
) 
064-12-55-05135 
5. The expected presence of this quantity can prevent liquidity traps. Milton Friedman claimed that the 
conditions of the 1970s disproved this quantity's supposed inverse relation with the rate of unemployment. 
An extreme version of this phenomenon affected both the currency of the Weimar (VYE-mar) Republic 
and Zimbabwe. For 10 points, name this economic condition where currency steadily loses value, measured 
using a Consumer Price Index. 
ANSWER:  
inflation 
002-12-55-05136 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  9 of 10 
This is a calculation question. If two sides of a triangle are 2 and 4, what is the range of possible lengths for 
the third side? 
ANSWER:  
(2, 6) 
 [or  
between 2 and 6 
, exclusive] 
002-12-55-05137 
What molecular geometry occurs when a central atom is bonded to five other atoms and has no lone pair 
electrons? 
ANSWER:  
trigonal bipyramidal 
002-12-55-05137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2012     Round 5     Page  10 of 10 
