VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 8 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This equation needs to be modified into the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation when multiple ions are in a 
solution. This equation can be written so that a side is equal to the gas constant times temperature over the 
number of moles times Faraday's constant, all times the natural log of the reaction quotient. For 10 points, 
name this equation that can be used to find the voltage of an electrochemical cell or to find the 
concentration of an ion in a voltaic cell. 
ANSWER:  
Nernst 
 equation 
023-13-93-08101 
2. This novel's protagonist changes his style of dress after a major in his home town forces him to march for 
forgetting to salute. Characters in this novel include Detering, Leer, and Tjaden, who becomes angry at the 
jingoistic schoolteacher Kantorek after the death of their classmate Joseph Behm. It shifts to the third 
person for its final chapter, which describes the death of Paul Baumer. For 10 points, name this novel about 
German soldiers fighting in World War I by Erich Maria Remarque. 
ANSWER:  
All Quiet on the Western Front 
015-13-93-08102 
3. Aldous Huxley satirized this man's utopianism found in novels like  
Men Like Gods. 
 Hilaire Belloc and 
G.K. Chesterton attacked the dismissal of Christianity and belief in human progress in his  
Outline of 
History. 
 In a novel by this writer, the upper-class and working-class evolve into separate species, the 
childish Eloi and underground-dwelling Morlocks. Those groups are found by a traveler to the year 
802,701. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Time Machine. 
ANSWER: Herbert George  
Wells 
121-13-93-08103 
4. The affinity type of this procedure is often used to purify proteins, while the flash type applies pressure 
to perform this technique. These procedures rely on the different concentration ratios of each component, 
known as the partition coefficient. Absorbent materials are used in the thin-layer type of this procedure, in 
which the mobile phase flows through the stationary phase. For 10 points, name this technique in which a 
mixture is separated into different components. 
ANSWER:  
chromatography 
227-13-93-08104 
5. In this novel, a dispute between a wife’s brothers and husband is settled by the egwugwu, one of whom 
is played by the protagonist. In this novel, Mr. Brown is allowed to build a church in the “Evil Forest,” 
although that church is burned down after Rev. Smith takes over. The protagonist of this novel is exiled 
after he violates the “Week of Peace,” and helps kill his foster son Ikemefuna. This novel is about the Igbo 
people in Nigeria. For 10 points, name this novel about Okonkwo written by Chinua Achebe. 
ANSWER:  
Things Fall Apart 
149-13-93-08105 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  1 of 9 
6. A character created by this author shouts, “You’re one of my own children!” to the man who shoots her 
dead. In one of this author’s stories, the mentally retarded girl Lucynell gets left behind by her fiancé Tom 
Shiftlet at a diner. Julian is disgusted by his mother’s gift of a quarter to an African-American child in the 
title story of this author’s  
Everything That Rises Must Converge 
. For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic 
writer, who described the Misfit’s murder of the Grandmother in “A Good Man is Hard to Find.” 
ANSWER: Flannery  
O’Connor 
190-13-93-08106 
7. During Reconstruction, this state was governed by Powell Clayton. Earl Van Dorn was defeated by 
Samuel Curtis in this state at Pea Ridge. The 101st Airborne Division was sent to protect black students in 
this state after the governor, Orval Faubus, prevented them from entering Little Rock Central High School. 
For 10 points, name this Southern state whose former governors include Bill Clinton and Mike Hukabee. 
ANSWER:  
Arkansas 
186-13-93-08107 
8. This quantity’s relation to enthalpy and temperature can be seen in the van’t Hoff equation. This value 
has no units since all quantities used to calculate it are divided by a standard pressure or concentration. The 
law of mass action can be used to find this constant for a chemical reaction, which is compared with a 
related value, Q, to determine which direction a reaction will shift. For 10 points, name this value equal to 
the concentrations of the products over the reactants in a chemical reaction, symbolized capital K. 
ANSWER:  
equilibrium constant 
 [accept capital   until the end of the question] 
K 
140-13-93-08108 
9. Mr. Beresford tries to escape a man following him home in this author's posthumously published story 
“Paranoia.” Eleanor commits suicide by driving into a tree after leaving Dr. Montague's psychology 
experiment in a novel by this author. In one of her short stories, a woman screams “It isn't fair” shortly 
before the rest of her town surrounds her to stone her to death. For 10 points, name this author of  
The 
Haunting of Hill House 
 and “The Lottery.” 
ANSWER: Shirley  
Jackson 
121-13-93-08109 
10. In the buildup to this battle, orders were disobeyed by James Neill, who left his command before this 
battle. Two surviving witnesses of this battle were the infant Angelina and her mother Susanna Dickinson. 
A legend about this battle describes how a line was drawn in the sand by William Travis that the ill Jim 
Bowie had to be carried over. For 10 points, name this battle in which Santa Anna's forces killed Davy 
Crockett and all the Texan defenders of a fortified mission in San Antonio. 
ANSWER: Battle of the  
Alamo 
023-13-93-08110 
11. One ruler of this city built a giant sundial which pointed to the Altar of Peace on his birthday. Twelve 
bodyguard-like officers in this city carried an axehead tied to a bundle of sticks, from whose name we 
derive the word “fascism.” Its highest executives were two men elected to a simultaneous year-long term, 
and its tribunes represented the lower-class plebeians against its upper-class patricians. For 10 points, name 
this city whose consuls and senators wore togas. 
ANSWER:  
Rome 
 [or  
Roma 
] 
104-13-93-08111 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  2 of 9 
12. In one book, this writer described his observations of red and black ants fighting, and he began an essay 
by endorsing the motto, “That government is best which governs least.” One of his essays was written after 
he was arrested for refusing to pay a poll tax supporting the Mexican-American War, and his most famous 
book describes his time living in a cabin by the title pond. For 10 points, name this transcendentalist who 
wrote “Civil Disobedience” and  
Walden. 
ANSWER: Henry David  
Thoreau 
014-13-93-08112 
13. This letter denotes a constant that shows how much a certain material will contract or expand to 
changes in temperature, the coefficient of thermal expansion. In statistics, this letter represents a Type I 
error. Angular acceleration is symbolized by this letter. The highest ranking member of a community of 
organisms has this letter designation, as does the brightest star in a constellation. For 10 points, name the 
first letter of the Greek alphabet. 
ANSWER:  
alpha 
140-13-93-08113 
14. The west bank of this lake is the location of a kittbutz on the En Gedi oasis. A peninsula known as \"The 
Tongue\" separates this body of water into two basins, and Mount Sodom is located at its southwestern end. 
Khirbat Qumran was the location of a discovery made by a shepherd boy in a cave near this body of water's 
shores in 1947. For 10 points, name this salt lake between Israel and Jordan that is about 1,300 feet below 
sea level and is known for its namesake scrolls. 
ANSWER:  
Dead Sea 
 [prompt on  
Salt Sea 
] 
030-13-93-08114 
15. Teresa Stolz was the star soprano in many operas by this composer. An opera by this composer includes 
a canzone about the flightiness of women sung by the Duke of Mantua. This composer created an opera 
featuring the jealous Amneris and conquering hero Radames. This composer of the aria \"La donna e 
mobile\" wrote an opera that had live camels and elephants on stage during its 1871 premiere in Cairo. For 
10 points, name this Italian composer of operas about the hunchbacked jester  
Rigoletto 
 and Ethiopian 
princess  
Aida. 
ANSWER: Giuseppe  
Verdi 
023-13-93-08115 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 8 
Directed Round 
1A.  In a poem written by Thomas Gray, what animal named Selima \"tumbled headlong” into a lake and 
drowned? 
ANSWER:  
cat 
1B.  Name the city in which the Dakar Rally traditionally starts, the Roland Garros tennis open runs, and 
the most prestigious race in the Grand Tour of cycling ends. 
ANSWER:  
Paris 
2A.  What mathematician's namesake sums can be used to estimate integrals? His namesake hypothesis is a 
Millenium Prize Problem about roots of the zeta function. 
ANSWER: Bernhard  
Riemann 
2B.  What organization's Unit 61398 was revealed by security firm Mandiant to be behind large-scale 
corporate espionage in the United States? 
ANSWER:  
People's Liberation Army 
 [or  
PLA 
; or Zhongguo Renmin  
Jiefangjun 
; or Chung-kuo Jen-min 
Chieh-fang-chun 
; prompt on  
Chinese army 
 and equivalent answers] 
3A.  What female photographer captured the spirit of the Great Depression in her image  
Migrant Mother 
? 
ANSWER: Dorothea  
Lange 
3B.  Name the tallest mountain in Virginia, located in Grayson and Smyth Counties. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Rogers 
4A.  What Polish anthropologist examined the kula exchange system in his  
Argonauts of the Western 
Pacific 
? 
ANSWER: Bronislaw  
Malinowski 
4B.  Name the U.S. naval base that was attacked by the Imperial Japanese Navy on December 7, 1941. 
ANSWER:  
Pearl Harbor 
5A.  Wan and the light spirit Raava were revealed to have defeated the dark spirit Vaatu in what popular 
Nickelodeon series? 
ANSWER:  
The  Legend of Korra 
5B.  Edward Jenner popularized a method of conferring immunity against what disease, using a virus that 
primarily infected cows? 
ANSWER:  
smallpox 
6A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the side length of a rhombus that has perimeter 64 
inches? 
ANSWER:   inches 
16 
6B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Consider a deck of 24 cards consisting only of twos through 
sevens in each of the four suits. What is the probability that the top two cards in the deck sum to nine? 
ANSWER:  
4/23 
7A.  What bank agreed to a $5.1 billion settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency for 
misleading Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac about mortgage-backed securities it sold them? 
ANSWER:  
J.P. Morgan 
 Chase and Company 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  Which King of England was killed at the Battle of Bosworth Field, ending the War of the Roses? 
ANSWER:  
Richard III 
 [prompt on  
Richard 
] 
8A.  What politician became the first president of the Fifth French Republic when it was established during 
the Algerian war of independence? 
ANSWER: Charles  
de Gaulle 
8B.  After it was leaked early, what band streamed their album  
Reflektor 
 with clips from the movie  
Black 
Orpheus? 
ANSWER:  
Arcade Fire 
9A. What layer of the Earth lies below the boundary known as the Moho discontinuity? 
ANSWER:  
mantle 
9B.  What abstract expressionist painter gained notoriety for his method of dripping paint directly onto a 
canvas? 
ANSWER: Jackson  
Pollock 
10A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the square of the quantity, sine of 15 degrees plus 
cosine of 15 degrees? 
ANSWER:  
3/2 
 [or  
1.5 
; or  
1 1/2 
] 
10B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Glorps have three eyes and two mouths and Fleebles have 
four eyes and one mouth. In a mixed group of Glorps and Fleebles, there are 68 eyes and 32 mouths. How 
many Glorps are in the group? 
ANSWER:  
12 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 8 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This character dies of starvation in a graveyard while clutching the dead body of his love interest. He is 
named for the Sunday after Easter after being abandoned by his birth parents. This character is captured 
and imprisoned by the soldier Phoebus after he is caught obeying the commands of his adopted father 
Archdeacon Frollo. His love for the gypsy Esmeralda is unrequited due to his hideous appearance. For 10 
points, name this bell ringing title character of  
The Hunchback of Notre Dame. 
ANSWER:  
Quasimodo 
015-13-93-08117 
2. This man put in an extended cadenza for the soloist in the first movement of his only concerto, a Violin 
Concerto in D minor. A tone poem by this composer uses an English horn to depict a swimming bird. That 
piece,  
The Swan of Tuonela, 
 is one of his many compositions influenced by the mythology of his home 
country. He produced a brass-heavy composition that he often renamed to evade Russian censors. For 10 
points, name this composition of the unofficial national anthem  
Finlandia. 
ANSWER: Jean  
Sibelius 
142-13-93-08118 
3. Words for \"below\" \"above\" and \"beyond\" trigger nouns in this case. This case is taken by the objects of 
the pronouns \"proxume,\" \"secundum,\" \"apud,\" \"circa\" \"inter\" and \"per.\" The subject of an indirect 
statement is in this case. This case's singular forms end in \"m\" and its plural forms end in a vowel plus \"s.\" 
For 10 points, name this Latin noun case most commonly used for direct objects of verbs. 
ANSWER: Latin  
accusative 
 case 
019-13-93-08119 
4. This hero was rescued from the sea on the island of Seriphos by the fisherman Dictys. He accidentally 
killed his grandfather Acrisius with a discus. He was born after his mother Danae was impregnated by Zeus 
as a shower of gold. This man used a helm of invisibility and the reflection from a shield to accomplish his 
most famous task, which resulted in the birth of Chrysaor and Pegasus. For 10 points, name this Greek hero 
who slayed Medusa. 
ANSWER:  
Perseus 
186-13-93-08120 
5. This man's most famous concept came from a loophole in Goldstone's theorem, and was a consequence 
of the broken symmetry present in electroweak theory. This man teamed with Francois Englert and others 
to elucidate a mechanism by which a field interacts with particles to give them mass. That theory was 
validated in the CMS and ATLAS experiments, which revealed the existence of a new particle around 126 
GeV, resulting in a 2013 Nobel for this man. For 10 points, name this physicist whose boson is often 
referred to as the \"God particle\" by the media. 
ANSWER: Peter  
Higgs 
020-13-93-08121 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  6 of 9 
6. Beams of these particles can be used in a precise, but very expensive form of cancer treatment. These 
particles have been theoretically predicted to have a lifetime of around ten to the thirty-sixth power years. 
The number of these particles in an atom increases by one in beta-minus decay. They are composed of two 
up quarks and a down quark. A hydrogen ion consists of one of these particles. For 10 points, name this 
positively charged subatomic particle that is found in the nucleus. 
ANSWER:  
proton 
 [accept  
antiproton 
 until “thirty-sixth power”] 
185-13-93-08122 
7. This country used the codename \"Chagai-I\" for underground nuclear tests it conducted in 1998. Its 
president Yahya Khan was replaced by the People's Party after it lost territory in 1971. This country was 
the site of the 2007 assassination of Benazir Bhutto; the next year, this country had its president, Pervez 
Musharraf, resign. It formerly controlled Bangladesh. For 10 points, name this Asian country, the site of a 
military campaign against the Taliban. 
ANSWER:  
Pakistan 
088-13-93-08123 
8. Some acacia trees produce Beltian bodies in a mutualistic relationship with these animals. The subject of 
a book by E. O. Wilson and Bert Holldobler, these animals often use formic acid in their venom, and 
together with wasps and bees they form the order Hymenoptera. Fungus cultivation is practiced by the 
\"leaf-cutter\" kind of these organisms. These organisms may cultivate aphids, and they include \"carpenter\" 
and \"army\" varieties. For 10 points, name these common insects whose underground hives are often topped 
by hills. 
ANSWER:  
ant 
s [or  
Formicidae 
] 
237-13-93-08124 
9. This element is present in the active site of rubisco, bound to a lysine. This element and zinc block 
transport through NMDA receptors. It is the central atom of the porphyrin ring in chlorophyll. This element 
is the most common divalent cation to which ATP binds to make it active. The hydroxide of this element is 
a common antacid and laxative that resembles milk in appearance. For 10 points, identify this element with 
symbol Mg. 
ANSWER:  
magnesium 
 [or  
Mg 
 until it is read] 
066-13-93-08125 
10. Albert Schweitzer argued that this event was misperceived by its witnesses. According to a detail found 
only in the Gospel of Matthew, Peter's life had to be saved after he tried duplicating this event. This event 
took place after the feeding of the five thousand, on a night when the performer was alone on the Sea of 
Galilee. For 10 points, name this physics-defying miracle performed by Jesus. 
ANSWER: Jesus  
walking on water 
 [or equivalents] 
020-13-93-08126 
11. The most efficient implementation of Dijkstra is done using a Fibonacci one of these structures. Priority 
queues are typically implemented using a binary of them. A n log n sorting algorithm that uses these data 
structures adds elements to one, maintaining their namesake property, and then removes the elements while 
again maintaining that property. For 10 points, identify this data structure similar to a tree except parent 
nodes must either always be less than or always greater than their children. 
ANSWER:  
heap 
s 
066-13-93-08127 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  7 of 9 
12. This poet’s reputation was transformed by a 1947 book of criticism by Northrop Frye. His long poems 
include the prophetic epics  
Jerusalem 
 and  
The Four Zoas. 
 This poet described “mind-forg’d manacles” in 
a poem in which he wanders through the chartered streets of the title city. Another of his poems describes 
an animal “burning bright in the forests of the night.” For 10 points, name this eccentric poet of “London” 
and “The Tyger.” 
ANSWER: William  
Blake 
014-13-93-08128 
13. Some worshippers of this god interpret the Pacaratra text to describe his five aspects. This god’s 
mount, the enemy of the nagas, is a giant bird called Garuda. This god wields the Sudarshana Chakra and is 
often depicted holding a conch shell in one of his four hands. This consort of Lakshmi’s avatars include 
Rama and Krishna. For 10 points, name this preserver god from Hindu mythology, one of the Trimurti 
along with Brahma and Shiva. 
ANSWER:  
Vishnu 
014-13-93-08129 
14. This country's major poet is often depicted playing the stringed  
dombra. 
 The Irtysh River flows through 
Lake Zaysan in this country, while the Ili River flows into its Lake Balkash. The largest city in this country 
is Almaty. It contains the largest space launch facility in the world, the Baikonur Cosmodrome. Nursultan 
Nazarbayev is the president of this largest landlocked country in the world. For 10 points, name this Central 
Asian country south of Russia and west of Mongolia. 
ANSWER:  
Kazakhstan 
080-13-93-08130 
15. A character in this novel first finds out that his name isn’t Maury soon after his grandmother 
Damuddy’s funeral, when he first realizes that his sister “smells like trees”. That character later gets 
castrated. Another protagonist of this novel jumps to his death in the Charles River, when he finds out that 
his sister Caddy became pregnant with Dalton Ames. This novel is titled for a passage from  
Macbeth 
 about 
a “tale told by an idiot.” For 10 points, name this novel about Quentin, Benjy, and the rest of the Compson 
family written by William Faulkner. 
ANSWER:  
The  Sound and the Fury 
190-13-93-08131 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 8 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This quantity equals the line integral of the electric field between two points. The energy stored in a 
fully-charged capacitor equals one-half this quantity times the separated charge. Dividing the square of this 
quantity by the resistance gives the power dissipated by a resistor. Capacitance is the ratio of charge to this 
quantity. Two resistors in parallel must have the same value for this quantity. For 10 points, name this 
electrical quantity that equals the product of current and resistance in Ohm’s Law. 
ANSWER:  
voltage 
 [or electric  
potential difference 
;accept  
emf 
; accept  
electromotive force 
] 
185-13-93-08132 
2. The longest serving person to hold this office was Cordell Hull, who served under FDR. One holder of 
this position was a signatory of the Kellogg-Briand Pact. Through the \"Corrupt Bargain,\" Henry Clay took 
this position following the Election of 1824. The first person to hold this position was Thomas Jefferson, 
and it is currently held by John Kerry. For 10 points, name this Cabinet position, whose holder deals with 
foreign affairs. 
ANSWER: Secretary of  
State 
140-13-93-08133 
3. Patients with this disease sometimes suffer overheating and fatigue when exposed to hot weather thanks 
to Uhthoff's phenomenon, and feel the \"barber chair phenomenon\" when bending their heads forward. 
Jean-Marie Charcot was the first to describe and name this disease, whose name refers to scars in the 
brain's white matter produced by the destruction of the myelin sheathes that insulate neurons. For 10 points, 
name this neurological disease more common in women than men, which can cause muscle weakness and 
paralysis. 
ANSWER:  
MS 
 [or  
multiple sclerosis 
] 
020-13-93-08134 
4. This author wrote a play in which Stephan asks his estranged father, a wealthy arms manufacturer, for 
money. That arms manufacturer then promises to donate to the Salvation Army, angering his devote 
daughter. This author is perhaps best known for a play where Henry Higgins wagers that he can pass the 
cockney Eliza Doolittle for an upper-class woman. For 10 points, name this author of  
Major Barbara 
 and  
Pygmalion 
. 
ANSWER: George Bernard  
Shaw 
230-13-93-08135 
5. One writes expressions for this quantity in mesh analysis. This quantity is measured in a circuit by using 
a device hooked up in series that has negligible internal resistance. This quantity divided by cross-sectional 
area gives its namesake density, symbolized J. Conventionally, its direction is defined as the flow of 
positive charge. Power dissipated across a resistor is equal to voltage times this quantity. For 10 points, 
identify this quantity measured in amperes. 
ANSWER:  
current 
 [do not accept “current density”] 
226-13-93-08136 
What work's fourth book focuses on the love affair between Dido of Carthage and the title Trojan prince? 
ANSWER:  
Aeneid 
This is a calculation question. What is the area of the triangle enclosed by the lines \"x plus y equals 7\", \"x 
minus y equals 3\", and the y-axis? 
ANSWER:   square units 
4 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     8     Page  9 of 9 
