NASAT 2013 
Round 14 
Tossups 
1. In one passage from this novel, a character imagines heaven as a dirty bathhouse full of spiders. This 
novel's ending was called \"conventionally monologic,\" in contrast to its primarily polyphonic narrative, by 
Mikhail Bakhtin. That ending of this novel includes the protagonist weeping and embracing the knees of a 
girl whose father dies after being run over by a carriage. Earlier, the protagonist vacillates between that girl 
and the nihilist Svidrigailov. For 10 points, name this novel in which the pawnbroker Alyona Ivanovna is 
murdered by the student Raskolnikov, a work by Fyodor Dostoevsky. 
ANSWER:  
Crime and Punishment 
 [or  
Prestupleniye i Nakazaniye 
] 
014-13-83-14101 
2. A ruler with this title married Maria Cristina during the \"Ominous Decade.\" It's not in England, but this 
royal title changed hands in an 1868 Glorious Revolution that resulted in the rule of Amadeus. A man 
abandoned this title after his forces lost the Battle of Vitoria. An unsuccessful holder of this title was 
known as \"The Hexed\" because of his very large tongue and inability to chew food. It's not in Naples, but 
Joseph Bonaparte held this title for five years before it returned to the House of Bourbon. Attempts to 
replace people with this title led to the Carlist Wars. For 10 points, name this royal title that went to Philip 
V after a 1700s succession war ended by the Treaty of Utrecht. 
ANSWER:  
king of Spain 
 [or  
monarch of Spain 
; or  
queen of Spain 
] 
052-13-83-14102 
3. One object named after this person controversially violated NASA's policy requiring the release of data 
within a year. Another object named after this person was the second of its kind to be fitted with a Reentry 
Breakup Recorder and was the second ATV sent to resupply the International Space Station. The former 
object named for this person was launched in 2009 and is surveying the Milky Way for habitable 
exoplanets. This person himself wrote  
The Cosmographic Mystery 
, in which he used spheres inscribing and 
circumscribing Platonic solids to build a model of the Solar System. This man was court mathematician to 
Rudolf II, was based in Linz, and got his start thanks to funding by Tycho Brahe. For 10 points, name this 
German astronomer who postulated three laws of planetary motion. 
ANSWER: Johannes  
Kepler 
020-13-83-14103 
4. In one scene, this character tells his friend, \"If love be rough with you, be rough with love; prick love for 
pricking, and you beat love down.\" In his final prose speech, this character states, \"Ask for me tomorrow, 
and you shall find me a grave man.\" This character describes a figure with \"collars of the moonshine's 
wat'ry beams\" who is \"drawn with a team of little atomi over men's noses as they lie asleep\" in his speech 
about \"the fairies' midwife\" named Queen Mab. As he dies after being stabbed under his friend's arm, he 
repeatedly exclaims, \"A plague o' both your houses!\" For 10 points, name this Shakespearean noble killed 
by Tybalt and avenged by Romeo. 
ANSWER:  
Mercutio 
014-13-83-14104 
NASAT 2013     14     Page  1 of 12 
5. One effect that affects these things can be investigated with a Lummer-Gehrcke plate. When these things 
are affected by impact pressure, quasistatic pressure, and the Doppler effect, they can be modeled by a 
Voigt profile. The distance between two of these things due to that effect is proportional to the magnetic 
quantum number multiplied by the Bohr magneton. Kirchhoff's laws govern the production of these things 
by hot and cold gases. The D1 and D2 examples of these things created the \"sodium doublet\" in a series 
named for Fraunhofer. During a solar eclipse, examination of these things led Jules Janssen to discover 
helium. For 10 points, identify these series of light and dark bands that appear in an element's spectrum. 
ANSWER:  
spectral line 
s [or  
absorption line 
s; or  
emission line 
s; prompt on  
energy level 
s] 
149-13-83-14105 
6. One offshoot of this religion reveres a woman who wrote the book  
Lightning from the Orient 
. 
Disagreement with a decree banning the usage of the words \"Tian\" and \"Shangdi\" resulted in an 
eighteenth-century backlash against people of this religion. The early history of this religion is told in a 
stele that was lost from the ninth century until its rediscovery at the end of the Ming Dynasty; that history 
describes the arrival of Alopen. One convert styled himself the brother of one of this religion's leaders and 
established a \"Heavenly Kingdom\" while leading the Taiping Rebellion. For 10 points, name this religion 
that is still heavily persecuted in China, necessitating that many followers meet in house churches. 
ANSWER:  
Christianity 
 [or  
Nestorian 
ism; or  
Protestant 
ism; or  
Catholicism 
; or  
Orthodox 
 Christianity] 
020-13-83-14106 
7. Edmund Blore's soft French stone facade for this building decayed due to pollution and was replaced in 
1913 by Aston Webb's design, which called for its iconic white Portland stone. This building was built on 
the same spot as a failed mulberry garden. Visitors to this building often stay in its Belgian suite, so-named 
because it was first decorated for Leopold I. This building was converted from a townhouse with the same 
name, to which a stable known as the \"Royal Mews\" was added by chief architect John Nash. The massive 
Victoria Memorial statue lies outside the front gate of this structure, whose forecourt is the site of the 
Changing of the Guard. For 10 points, name this official London residence of the British monarchy. 
ANSWER:  
Buckingham Palace 
 [or  
Buckingham House 
] 
020-13-83-14107 
8. Antibodies produced against structures in neurons result in a disorder often mistaken for multiple 
sclerosis, neuromyelitis optica. Hereditary nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is caused by a mutation in a gene 
for another of these proteins. They usually form tetramers and are characterized by the NPA motif. In 
plants, the rate of symplastic movement increases due to these proteins. In the kidneys, they are transcribed 
in response to binding of antidiuretic hormone. These proteins are essential to maintaining turgor and for 
keeping cells isotonic. They may transport glycerol or other small polar solutes by facilitated diffusion. For 
10 points, name these membrane proteins which transport water. 
ANSWER:  
aquaporin 
s 
190-13-83-14108 
9. This poem's speaker describes \"the wolf, the snake, the hog, not wanting in me, the cheating look, the 
frivolous word, the adulterous wish, not wanting\" after confessing, \"I too knitted the old knot of 
contrariety.\" This poem's fifth section asks, \"What is it then between us? What is the count of the scores or 
hundreds of years between us?\" This poem concludes with the speaker addressing the \"dumb, beautiful 
ministers,\" saying, \"You furnish your parts toward eternity, great or small, you furnish your parts toward 
the soul.\" For 10 points, name this Walt Whitman poem beginning, \"Flood-tide below me! I see you face to 
face!\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Crossing Brooklyn Ferry 
\" 
014-13-83-14109 
NASAT 2013     14     Page  2 of 12 
10. A precursor to this conflict was the Gal Oya Riots of 1956, which was a reaction to the Official 
Language Act No. 33. Early in this conflict, one side massacred over 60 settlers at the Kent and Dollar 
Farms. An ambush on a military patrol using the call sign Four Four Bravo set off a series of pogroms 
known as Black July at the outset of this conflict. In 1998, this conflict involved a bombing at a temple 
containing the Buddha's tooth. A suicide bomber from one side in this conflict assassinated Rajiv Gandhi 
because of India's involvement trying to end this conflict. For 10 points, name this 1983 to 2009 conflict 
between government forces and a group desiring the independent state of Eelam, the Tamil Tigers. 
ANSWER:  
Sri Lankan Civil 
 War [accept answers relating to  
strife in Sri Lanka 
; accept answers 
involving  
Tamil 
 Tigers,  
Tamil 
 independence, Liberation Tigers of  
Tamil Eelam 
, or  
LTTE 
 before \"Tamil 
Tigers\"] 
141-13-83-14110 
11. In one story, the progenitor of these people was a nymph who boasted that she, rather than Athena, 
invented the plough. These characters decide to stone their leader in a lost play by Aeschylus, the first in a 
trilogy also including  
Nereids 
 and  
Phrygians 
. Hermes took the guise of one of these people to guide Priam 
into the Greek tents. After a horrible plague, Aeacus begged Zeus for people to populate his kingdom of 
Aegina, so these people sprang from a number of ants on a sacred oak. Peleus ruled over these people, who 
were once led into battle by Patroclus in their leader's guise. For 10 points, name these soldiers commanded 
by Achilles in the  
Iliad 
. 
ANSWER:  
Myrmidon 
s 
020-13-83-14111 
12. Harry Bridges and his Albion Hall Group led a general strike in this city, and Bridges became the head 
of its longshoreman's union in 1935. The Supreme Court ruled a statute this city had passed regulating 
laundry buildings was discriminatory in practice in the case  
Yick Wo v. Hopkins 
. Its \"Sandlot\" was used to 
give speeches by Denis Kearney, who attacked one of its largest immigrant groups. A major immigration 
processing center was moved here after the facility on nearby Angel Island burned down. Mayor Eugene 
Schmitz requested aid from federal troops in the aftermath of a 1906 earthquake that hit this city. For 10 
points, name this Californian city. 
ANSWER:  
San Francisco 
121-13-83-14112 
13. In a play by this author, a monk disregards the advice of the former soldier Father Pimen and woos the 
Polish noble Maryna while leading a rebellion. He wrote a short novel in which a young officer quarrels 
with Shvabrin while stationed at Bailogorsk fortress. That officer, Peter Andreich Grinev, pursues Maria 
Ivanovna Mironova, the title character. In one of this author's stories, a German engineer goes mad when he 
loses a fortune to Chekalinsky due to the unexpected appearance of the title card. For 10 points, name this 
Russian poet known for such prose works as  
The Captain’s Daughter 
, \"The Queen of Spades,\" and  
Boris 
Godunov 
. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Pushkin 
014-13-83-14113 
NASAT 2013     14     Page  3 of 12 
14. A coefficient symbolized alpha and named for Bunsen measures this property for gases. The 
Hume-Rothery rules determine whether or not two solids mutually have this property. In order for a 
recrystallization to work, the product should have this property when hot, but not when cold. Liquid-liquid 
extractions take advantage of the difference in this property between three species. Addition of a common 
ion will reduce this quantity according to Le Chatelier's principle. On a chart with temperature on the x-axis 
and this property on the y-axis, solids have a positive slope and gases have a negative slope. Henry's Law 
gives this property for gases as a function of temperature. For 10 points, name this property measuring how 
much of a substance can dissolve in another. 
ANSWER:  
solubility 
 [accept word forms; or  
dissolving 
; prompt on \"miscibility\" or word forms] 
190-13-83-14114 
15. This company was sued in 1973 by Sid and Marty Kroft, who claimed it ripped off the children's show  
H.R. Pufnstuf 
 to create its marketing characters. Jose Bove and his Confederation Paysanne supporters 
received a 44 day prison sentence for attacking one of this company’s branches being built in France. 
Thomas Friedman erroneously theorized that no two countries with one of these businesses have ever 
fought a war against each other. Morgan Spurlock subsisted on its products for a month in the film  
Super 
Size Me 
. For 10 points, name this company managed for many years by Ray Kroc, the world’s largest fast 
food chain. 
ANSWER:  
McDonald's 
 Corporation 
052-13-83-14115 
16. Adgandestrius offered to have this man poisoned, but was refused, since this man had to be defeated 
\"openly and by arms.\" This man made an enemy of Segestes by going against his will and marrying 
Segestes' daughter. Maroboduus fought a brief war against this man, whose wife Thusnelda was captured 
by the nephew of Tiberius. This man lost the Battle of the Weser River to Germanicus, who recovered the 
aquilae lost to this man. After uniting the Marsi, Chatti, and other tribes with his own Cherusci, he won a 
crushing victory against Publius Quinctilius Varus. For 10 points, name this German chieftain who 
destroyed three Roman legions during the Battle of Teutoburg Forest. 
ANSWER:  
Arminius 
 [or  
Hermann 
] 
080-13-83-14116 
17. One director of this orchestra produced a saxophone concerto titled from a quote from Kafka's  
The 
Trial 
. In 1961, George Solti was succeeded as its music director by Zubin Mehta, who became renowned 
for being the youngest leader of an American orchestra. A more recent director of this orchestra 
championed the works of Igor Stravinsky, who spent thirty years in this orchestra's city. In 2009, this 
orchestra's leader Esa-Pekka Salonen passed the baton to the young Venezuelan-born violinist Gustavo 
Dudamel. This orchestra plays inside an intense glare-producing stainless steel-coated structure designed 
by Frank Gehry. For 10 points, name this orchestra which relocated to the Walt Disney Concert Hall from 
its former home, the Hollywood Bowl. 
ANSWER:  
Los Angeles Philharmonic 
 [or  
LA Phil 
harmonic] 
020-13-83-14117 
18. This city was where Nikolaus Skoufas and two other leaders founded the Filiki Eteria, a secret society 
promoting Greek independence. This city came to prominence under the governorship of a noble French 
refugee, the Duke of Richelieu. This city's Jewish community included the author of  
Auto-Emancipation 
, 
Leon Pinkser, and formed the \"Jewish Militia for War against Pogroms\" in response to its many pogroms. 
The sailor Valenchuk's corpse was brought into this city after mutinying sailors came to this port during the 
1905 Revolution. For 10 points, name this city in Ukraine where  
Battleship Potemkin 
 was filmed, and that 
contains a famous set of steps. 
ANSWER:  
Odessa 
080-13-83-14118 
NASAT 2013     14     Page  4 of 12 
19. Trudy Guthrie's photograph of a sea monster in this body of water turned out to be a manatee. William 
Warner's book  
Beautiful Swimmers 
 describes the life cycle of the blue crab here. This body of water 
contains an island whose residents are probably incorrectly thought to speak an Elizabethan dialect of 
English. In the same county as its Tangier Island, wild ponies are rounded up on Assateague Island and 
driven across water to Chincoteague, another island in this body of water. Accomack is on the Eastern 
Shore, a peninsula separate by this from the state mainland. A bridge-tunnel complex across this body 
connects Cape Charles on the Delmarva Peninsula to Virginia Beach. For 10 points, name this estuary that 
borders Virginia and Maryland. 
ANSWER:  
Chesapeake 
 Bay 
121-13-83-14119 
20. A Dutch-born member of this art movement painted a winged man wearing a suit dancing with a nude 
woman in  
Archangel's Tango 
. Kees van Dongen belonged to this movement, like a non-Monet artist who 
painted  
The Houses of Parliament at Night 
 and often worked in the suburb of Chatou. Its most famous 
member gained international fame with his  
Still Life with Geraniums 
 and painted a circle of people 
interlocking hands in the background of his  
Joy of Life 
. That member exhibited his  
Woman With a Hat 
 at 
the 1905 Salon d'Automne, prompting a scathing comment by Louis Vauxcelles that gave this movement 
its name. For 10 points, Andre Derain and Henri Matisse co-founded what art movement whose name 
means \"wild beasts\"? 
ANSWER:  
Fauv 
ism [or  
Fauves 
] 
020-13-83-14120 
21. In this novel, a reformed thief jumps off the South Spit after buying a tin box and dog chains from Mrs. 
Yolland and using them to hide a paint-smeared nightgown in the Shivering Sand. The antagonist of this 
novel is trying to pay off his debts to the subtly-named Septimus Luker. In this novel, Ezra Jennings 
conducts an experiment by slipping an ex-smoker opium and seeing if it makes him sleepwalk. Near its 
end, a sailor with a fake beard and wig turns out to be Godfrey Ablewhite, who was murdered by three 
Brahmins after taking the title object from Rachel Verinder. For 10 points, name this Victorian detective 
novel about the theft of a diamond, written by Wilkie Collins. 
ANSWER:  
The  Moonstone 
080-13-83-14121 
22. This man developed a self-assessment test to measure internal consistency, or congruence, which is 
known as the Q-sort. He is shown leading an encounter group in the documentary  
Journey Into Self 
, and his 
work with abused and troubled youths prompted him to write  
The Clinical Treatment of the Problem Child 
. 
This man discouraged calling the people seen by psychologists as \"patients,\" described a life force that he 
called the actualizing tendency, and encouraged psychologists to provide unconditional positive regard. For 
10 points, name this author of  
On Becoming a Person 
 and pioneer of client-centered therapy. 
ANSWER: Carl  
Rogers 
030-13-83-14122 
23. The points named for half of this value on a transfer function plot are alternately called the 3 dB points. 
The cosine of the phase angle is equal to this value's namesake factor. A time-averaged form of this 
quantity's density divided by the speed of light gives the radiation pressure. This quantity is equal to the 
surface integral of the cross product of the electric and magnetic fields according to Poynting's theorem. 
The maximum amount of this quantity is transferred when the load resistance is the same as the Thevenin 
resistance. Using Ohm's law, it is found to be current squared times resistance for a resistor. For ohmic 
elements, it is often given off as heat. For 10 points, name this quantity that is the amount of energy a 
circuit transfers per unit time and is measured in watts. 
ANSWER: electrical  
power 
190-13-83-14123 
NASAT 2013     14     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2013 
Round 14 
Bonuses 
1. In proline, this region is bound to more than one carbon atom. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this region that is different for each amino acid. 
ANSWER:  
side chain 
 [prompt on  ] 
R 
[10] Amino acids are linked by peptide bonds to form these macromolecules, which fold into 
three-dimensional structures. 
ANSWER:  
protein 
s 
[10] Proteins in a gel may be separated based on their isoelectric point using this technique. This technique 
is often done as the second dimension of a two-dimensional gel. 
ANSWER: isoelectric  
focusing 
020-13-83-14201  
2. This woman reportedly had an affair with Prime Minister Alec Douglas-Home's nephew, Robin. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this controversial princess, a daughter of George VI. She was prevented from marrying the 
divorced commoner, Peter Townsend, and had the title Countess of Snowdon. 
ANSWER:  
Margaret 
 Rose Windsor 
[10] Margaret was the sister of this woman, the current queen of England. 
ANSWER:  
Elizabeth II 
 [or  
Elizabeth Alexandra Mary 
; prompt on  
Elizabeth 
] 
[10] After the assassination of this man, a press report said Margaret referred to the Irish as \"pigs.\" The last 
Viceroy of India, he was killed when his yacht was blown up by the Provisional IRA. 
ANSWER: Louis Francis Albert Victor Nicholas  
Mountbatten 
 [or Earl of  
Mountbatten 
; or Lord  
Mountbatten 
] 
052-13-83-14202  
3. Answer these questions about cows in Hinduism, for 10 points each. 
[10] This avatar of Vishnu was a cowherd in his youth. He gives advice to Arjuna in the  
Bhagavad Gita 
. 
ANSWER:  
Krishna 
[10] The young Krishna also played around with these cow-herding girls. One of them, Radha, is Krishna's 
main lover. 
ANSWER:  
gopis 
[10] This divine wish-fulfilling cow is often depicted with the face and breasts of a woman. The worship of 
cows in Hinduism is also the worship of this goddess, since all cows are a manifestation of her. 
ANSWER:  
Surabhi 
 [or  
Kamadhenu 
] 
080-13-83-14203  
NASAT 2013     14     Page  6 of 12 
4. The modulation index is the ratio between the message and carrier types of this quantity. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Identify this quantity that names a type of analog modulation that is paired with phase modulation in 
QAM (\"CAM\"). 
ANSWER:  
amplitude 
[10] This method assumes that the wavefunction solution to a certain equation is exponentials whose 
amplitude and phase vary slowly compared to the de Broglie wavelength. 
ANSWER: J 
WKB 
 approximation [or J 
WKB 
 method; or Jeffreys- 
Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin 
approximation; or  
LG 
 approximation; or  
Liouville-Green 
 method; accept all answers in any order] 
[10] The WKB method is most often used with this equation, whose time-independent form states that i 
h-bar times the time derivative of the wavefunction is equal to the Hamiltonian of the wavefunction. 
ANSWER:  
Schroedinger 
 equation 
020-13-83-14204  
5. This performer pioneered scat singing in a recording of Boyd Atkins' \"Heebie Jeebies\" and recorded his 
mentor King Oliver's \"West End Blues\" with his \"Hot Five.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this jazz trumpeter from New Orleans, nicknamed \"Satchmo.\" 
ANSWER: Louis  
Armstrong 
[10] Louis Armstrong recorded \"Saint Louis Blues\" with this female blues singer. Nicknamed the \"Empress 
of the Blues,\" she saved Columbia Records with her recordings of \"Gulf Coast Blues\" and \"Downhearted 
Blues.\" 
ANSWER: Bessie  
Smith 
[10] Louis Armstrong and Bobby Darin both popularized this song as a jazz standard. Marc Blitzstein's 
rendition of this moritat from  
The Threepenny Opera 
 begins \"Oh the shark has pretty teeth dear, and he 
shows them pearly white.\" 
ANSWER: \"The Ballad of  
Mack the Knife 
\" [or \"Die Moritat von  
Mackie Messer 
\"] 
080-13-83-14205  
6. Harnosand and Sundsvall are cities on this body of water. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this northern branch of the Baltic Sea which is bounded on the south by the Archipelago Sea. 
ANSWER: Gulf of  
Bothnia 
[10] The Gulf of Bothnia lies between these two Nordic countries. 
ANSWER:  
Sweden 
 and  
Finland 
 [accept in either order] 
[10] This archipelago lies in the southern Gulf of Bothnia and has its capital at Marihamn. It is west of the 
Abolan archipelago and contains nearly 6,000 skerries. 
ANSWER:  
Aland 
 Islands [or  
Aland 
s] 
192-13-83-14206  
7. One member of this family was left permanently incapacitated after undergoing a prefrontal lobotomy at 
her father's request. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this prominent family. Another member of it founded the event that evolved into the Special 
Olympics and was married to former Ambassador Sargent Shriver. 
ANSWER:  
Kennedy 
s 
[10] The aforementioned Rosemary and Eunice Kennedy were the children of Joseph Kennedy, whose 
youngest son was this longtime Massachusetts Senator who died in 2009 of brain cancer. 
ANSWER:  dward Moore Kennedy, Sr. [or  ed; or  eddy; \"Kennedy\" is not needed] 
E T T 
[10] Shriver later replaced Thomas Eagleton as George McGovern's running mate in 1972 after Eagleton 
was mocked by the press for once undergoing this type of procedure to help his mental exhaustion. 
ANSWER:  
shock therapy 
 [or  
electroconvulsive therapy 
; or  
ECT 
] 
052-13-83-14207  
NASAT 2013     14     Page  7 of 12 
8. Richard Babcock's wife Gioia Diliberto wrote a historical novel telling the story of this painting's model. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting of Virginie Gautreau leaning on a table that aroused scandal at the 1886 Salon 
because her right shoulder strap was about to fall off. 
ANSWER:  
Portrait of  Madame X 
[10] This American artist painted the  
Portrait of Madame X 
 and showed a line of blinded soldiers walking 
towards a dressing station in his 1919 work  
Gassed 
. 
ANSWER: John Singer  
Sargent 
[10] Sargent's 1885 painting, in which this author walks by an open door and looks at the viewer while 
putting his finger up to his mustache and his wife sits to the right, sold for $8.8 million in 2004. 
ANSWER: Robert Louis  
Stevenson 
052-13-83-14208  
9. The Phillips Curve relates this quantity to unemployment. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this economic term that describes the collective increase in prices over time. 
ANSWER:  
inflation 
[10] One theory on the cause of inflation is this idea that the price-wage spiral causes inflation due to the 
increase in the price of wages and raw materials. 
ANSWER:  
cost-push 
 inflation 
[10] This American economist questioned the assumptions behind the Phillips Curve, claiming that workers 
can't be frequently fooled by changes in government policies with his \"policy ineffectiveness proposition.\" 
He developed the theory of rational expectations. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Lucas 
030-13-83-14209  
10. Characters in this play constantly quote from  
Love's Whirlwind 
, and it ends with a spirited argument 
about whether the Rue Saint-Honore connects to the Place de la Concorde. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which the Bliss family has four houseguests. 
ANSWER:  
Hay Fever 
[10] Noel Coward, the author of  
Hay Fever 
, also wrote this play in which Madame Arcati summons the 
spirit of Charles's deceased wife Elvira. 
ANSWER:  
Blithe Spirit 
[10]  
Blithe Spirit 
 takes its title from this Romantic poet's \"To a Skylark.\" 
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe  
Shelley 
190-13-83-14210  
11. This treaty revised an earlier papal bull called  
Inter caetera 
 by moving a demarcation line west of the 
Cape Verde islands. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this treaty signed by Spain and Portugal that divided control of the prospective New World in 
1494. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Tordesillas 
[10] This Spanish Borgia pope wrote  
Inter caetera 
 and drafted the Treaty of Tordesilllas. His son Cesare 
was made a cardinal under him for five years.. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander VI 
 [or  odrigo  
R Borgia 
; or  odrigo de  
R Borja 
 y Doms; prompt on partial answers] 
[10] Three decades later, the town of Tordesillas sided with this rebellion against Charles I of Spain before 
its defeat at Villalar. 
ANSWER: Revolt of the  
Comunero 
s [or  
Comunero 
 uprising] 
104-13-83-14211  
NASAT 2013     14     Page  8 of 12 
12. This theory was proposed by Alan Guth in 1980. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this modification of the Big Bang model that states that the universe exponentially expanded for 
a short period of time during this theory's namesake epoch. This process is thought to be driven by the 
inflaton scalar field. 
ANSWER: cosmological  
inflation 
[10] This problem, along with the flatness problem, was a primary motive behind developing inflationary 
theory. This problem occurs because two distant parts of the universe could not interact with each other in 
the old Big Bang model. 
ANSWER:  
horizon 
 problem 
[10] According to Andrei Linde, inflation theory may allow for our universe to exist inside of one of these 
particles that are predicted by Grand Unified Theories. Their existence is traditionally disallowed by one of 
Gauss's law for magnetism. 
ANSWER:  
magnetic monopole 
149-13-83-14212  
13. Answer the following about feudalism, for 10 points each. 
[10] Feudalism involved a system of obligations between lords and these people, who swore loyalty and 
support in exchange for grants of land called fiefdoms. 
ANSWER:  
vassal 
s [or  
feudatory 
; or  
feudatories 
] 
[10] This ruler is depicted becoming a vassal on the Bayeux Tapestry. Another section of the Tapestry may 
show him getting an arrow in his eye. 
ANSWER:  
Harold Godwinson 
 [or  
Harold II 
; prompt on  
Harold 
] 
[10] Early vassalage ceremonies involved Christian relics, including those of this saint, the first bishop of 
Paris who was martyred around 250 CE. After getting beheaded, he picked it up and kept walking for 
miles, preaching all the way. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Denis 
 [or  
Dionysius 
; do not accept \"Dionysus the Areopagite\"] 
052-13-83-14213  
14. Name these techniques used to study cells, for 10 points each. 
[10] A \"scanning\" or \"transmission\" device may be used to magnify images up 10 million times in this 
form of microscopy. 
ANSWER:  
electron 
 microscopy 
[10] DAPI is used to label DNA in a form of microscopy that takes advantage of this phenomenon, in 
which a substance absorbs light of a certain wavelength and emits light of a longer wavelength. 
ANSWER:  
fluorescence 
 microscopy 
[10] Speaking of fluorescence, this technique attaches a donor and acceptor chromophore to a pair of 
molecules and sees whether they interact. This assay is commonly used in protein-protein binding studies. 
ANSWER:  
FRET 
 [or  
fluorescence resonance energy transfer 
 or  
Forster resonance energy transfer 
] 
020-13-83-14214  
NASAT 2013     14     Page  9 of 12 
15. This author adapted Anton Chekhov's  
The Seagull 
 into his play  
The Notebook of Trigorin 
. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this playwright who wrote the essay \"The Catastrophe of Success\" after the popularity of his 
play  
The Glass Menagerie. 
ANSWER: Tennessee  
Williams 
[10] Reverend Shannon travels with an entourage of women to a hotel managed by Maxine Faulk in this 
Williams play. 
ANSWER:  
The  Night of the Iguana 
[10] Williams retold a Greek legend in this \"apprentice play,\" reworked from his  
Battle of Angels 
, which 
focuses on the relationship between the mysterious stranger Val and the middle-aged Lady. 
ANSWER:  
Orpheus Descending 
020-13-83-14215  
16. One baffling part of this scandal, involving a shirtless picture of an FBI agent, was later revealed to 
have just been a joke. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this scandal, in which a retired four star general resigned as CIA director after he was found 
having an extramarital affair with his biographer. 
ANSWER:  
Petraeus 
 scandal [or  
Petraeus 
gate; accept any number of humorous answers that include the 
name of  
Petraeus 
, but not  
Betray Us 
 since that's a different thing] 
[10] Much amusement has been had by retrospectively considering the name of this book, the biography of 
Petraeus that his lover Paula Broadwell authored. 
ANSWER:  
All In : The Education of General David Petraeus 
[10] Natalie Khawam, the twin sister of threatening email recipient Jill Kelly, is being represented by this 
celebrity attorney, who also represents Amber Frey and two of Tiger Woods's mistresses. 
ANSWER: Gloria  
Allred 
020-13-83-14216  
17. In this novel, Himiko is part white because her grandfather married a Russian from Vladivostok. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Bird comes to terms with his son's brain hernia. 
ANSWER:  
A  Personal Matter 
 [or  
Kojinteki na Taiken 
] 
[10] This Japanese author of  
Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids 
 and  
The Silent Cry 
 sublimated his experiences 
with his son Hikari to write  
A Personal Matter. 
ANSWER: Kenzaburo  
Oe 
[10] Oe's  
The Silent Cry 
 is narrated by this one-eyed English professor married to Natsumi. 
ANSWER:  
Mitsusaburo 
186-13-83-14217  
NASAT 2013     14     Page  10 of 12 
18. This person's suicide note read \"Today the revolution has been stolen by the revisionist clique.\" For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this person who was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1983. She was the only female member 
of the Gang of Four and was arrested in 1976 after her husband's death. 
ANSWER:  
Jiang 
 Qing [or  
Lan Ping 
; or  
Madame Mao 
; or   Jinhai; or   Yunhe] 
Li Li 
[10] With her husband, Mao, Jiang Qing supported what movement that began in 1966? Its goal was to 
violently purge bourgeois elements of Chinese society. 
ANSWER: Great Proletarian  
Cultural Revolution 
 [or Wuchanjieji  
Wenhua Dageming 
] 
[10] Jiang Qing commissioned  
Taking Tiger Mountain by Strategy 
 and  
The Legend of the Red Lantern 
, 
types of this art form, to promote revolutionary ideas. Both works, along with six other notable ones, 
originated in this artistic genre before they were adapted for other media. 
ANSWER: model  
opera 
s [prompt on  
plays 
] 
052-13-83-14218  
19. MODERATOR NOTE: DO NOT REVEAL THE ALTERNATE ANSWER TO PART ONE 
The score of this symphony calls for a five-minute break before the second movement. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this symphony, based on a Friedrich Klopstock poem, whose extremely long fifth movement 
finale is partly choral and calls for the use of church bells. 
ANSWER:  
Resurrection  Symphony 
 [or Gustav  
Mahler 
's  
Symphony No.  2 
; prompt on  
Second Symphony 
or the like without the mention of  
Mahler 
] 
[10] The  
Resurrection Symphony 
 was composed by this Romantic Austrian composer of the  
Symphony of a 
Thousand 
 and the  
Titan 
 symphony. 
ANSWER: Gustav  
Mahler 
[10] A trumpet solo opens the C-sharp minor funeral march, or \"Trauersmarch\", at the beginning of this 
Mahler symphony, whose fourth movement contains a famous adagietto. 
ANSWER:  
Symphony No.  5 
190-13-83-14219  
20. This author wrote about Holocaust survivor Hermann Broder and his Polish servant in his novel  
Enemies, A Love Story. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Jewish-American author of such novels as  
The Magician of Lublin 
 and  
Satan in Goray. 
ANSWER: Isaac Bashevis  
Singer 
[10] Much of Singer's \"Gimpel the Fool\" focuses on Gimpel's dysfunctional relationship with his wife, who 
calls him to her deathbed to tell him this secret. 
ANSWER: their  
children are not his 
 [or their  
children are illegitimate 
; or obvious equivalents; prompt 
on  
she has been sleeping with other men 
] 
[10] Singer was one of the foremost authors to write in this language, which uses the Hebrew script and 
was developed by Ashkenazi Jews in Central Europe. 
ANSWER:  
Yiddish 
020-13-83-14220  
NASAT 2013     14     Page  11 of 12 
21. An appendix detailing the sex life of these creatures was written in a manner that mocked the academic 
writing of the author's time. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these creatures that destroy large chunks of the world's continents as revenge for being exploited 
by the pearl farming industry. 
ANSWER:  
newt 
s [or  
salamander 
s; or  
mloky 
] 
[10] This Czech writer wrote  
War with the Newts 
 and coined the term \"robot\" in his play  
R.U.R. 
ANSWER: Karel  
Capek 
[10] Bernard Williams wrote an article about the \"tedium of immortality\" as it related to this Capek play, in 
which the arrival of opera singer Emilia Marty complicates the lawsuit between Jaroslav Prus and Albert 
Gregor. 
ANSWER:  
The  Makropulos Affair 
 [or  
The  Makropulos Case 
; or  
Vec Makropulos 
] 
020-13-83-14221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     14     Page  12 of 12 
