VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The rate-limiting step in this pathway is catalyzed by phosphofructokinase 
(FOSS-fo-FROOK-toe-KYE-nase) and, like the first step, requires a magnesium cofactor. The sixth step of 
this pathway transfers a phosphate group to G3P and attaches a hydrogen to NAD+ (N-A-D-plus), while 
the seventh step transfers that phosphate group to ADP, recouping two of the initial ATP inputs. The last 
step of this pathway also creates ATP for a net of two ATP per input glucose molecule. For 10 points, name 
this pathway that breaks down glucose. 
ANSWER:  
glycolysis 
003-10-18-05101 
2. The beginnings of this court case can be traced back to the efforts of George Rappelyea, who wished to 
promote the mining industry in Dayton. Its defendant had violated the Butler Act. The defense attorney in 
this case called the prosecutor up to the stand and questioned him about the validity of the Bible. Clarence 
Darrow and William Jennings Bryan were the main figures of, for 10 points, what 1925 court case whose 
defendant, a high school teacher, broke the law by teaching about evolution? 
ANSWER:  
Scopes 
 Monkey Trial [or  
The State of Tennessee v.  Scopes 
] 
083-10-18-05102 
3. This man’s association with the khlysty (KLEH-stee) religious group forced him to move to Kazan, 
where he became friends with many clergy figures. He gained his most famous position by saving the life 
of Anna Vyrubova, and his death came about when he was poisoned, shot, and then dumped into the Neva 
River. Some speculate he may have used hypnotism to stop the bleeding sessions of Alexei, which helped 
him gain influence over Alexei’s mother Alexandra. For 10 points, name this Russian mystic who served 
the family of Nicholas II. 
ANSWER: Grigory Yefimovich  
Rasputin 
 [or Grigory Yefimovich  
Novykh 
] 
083-10-18-05103 
4. This novel's protagonist yells at Teddy Henfrey and forces Thomas Marvel to be his assistant. After 
Marvel escapes to the town of Burdock, the title character is shot and finds his old colleague Dr. Kemp, 
who soon finds out about his experiments with changing the refractive index of objects. The title character, 
whose name is Griffin, is an albino who wraps himself up with bandages in order to conceal his most 
notable attribute. For 10 points, name this 1897 novel by H. G. Wells whose protagonist cannot be seen. 
ANSWER:  
The  Invisible Man 
083-10-18-05104 
5. Two atoms of this element are appended in the Birch Reduction. One isotope of this element replaces a 
lighter isotope in a chloroform derivative used as a solvent in NMR. That isotope was discovered by Harold 
Urey. A compound in which this element is combined with oxygen is broken down by the enzyme catalase 
(CAT-uh-\"lace\"). Isotopes of this element include deuterium (doo-TAIR-ee-um) and tritium. Two of this 
element fuse to create helium. For 10 points, name this lightest element. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen 
 [or  ] 
H 
081-10-18-05105 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  1 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One of this author’s stories is described as “unpleasantly controversial and thoroughly unsuccessful” by 
his character Buddy. That story follows a ten-year-old Buddhist who predicts his own death aboard a ship. 
Along with “Teddy,” this author collected “For Esme - With Love and Squalor” and the story of Seymour 
Glass’s suicide, “A Perfect Day for Bananafish,” in his  
Nine Stories. 
 For 10 points, name this recluse, who 
also wrote about phony-hating Pencey Prep expellee Holden Caufield in  
The Catcher in the Rye. 
ANSWER: Jerome David  
Salinger 
019-10-18-05106 
7. This organ, which contains a region called the fundus, produces a glycoprotein used in vitamin B12 
absorption called the intrinsic factor. It also contains G cells which stimulate production of a material 
composed mainly of hydrochloric acid. This organ sends a material known as chyme from the pyloric 
sphincter into the duodenum, the first portion of the small intestine. In cows, this organ is divided into four 
compartments. For 10 points, name this main organ of the digestive system which breaks down food after 
receiving it from the esophagus. 
ANSWER:  
stomach 
064-10-18-05107 
8. This man lost bids for the presidency when running with John Sergeant and Theodore Frelinghuysen. He 
developed an economic program consisting of high tariffs and infrastructure projects like road development 
in his American System. He finished fourth in the election of 1824, and then engineered a \"corrupt bargain\" 
as Speaker of the House to help John Quincy Adams win. For 10 points, name this Kentucky congressman 
and senator whose work with the Missouri Compromise and Compromise 1850 gave him his nickname as 
the \"Great Compromiser.\" 
ANSWER: Henry  
Clay 
064-10-18-05108 
9.  
Pieces within this opera include the trio “Zitti, zitti” and the aria “Una voce poco fa.” One 
character in this opera pretends to be the student Lindoro in order to deceive Dr. Bartolo. The title 
character of this opera repeatedly sings the phrase “della citta” in one aria. That title character aids 
Count Almaviva in wooing Rosina and sings the aria (*) 
 “Largo al Factotum.” For 10 points, name this  
opera buffa 
 about the servant Figaro, composed by Gioacchino Rossini. 
ANSWER:  
The  Barber of Seville 
 [or  
Il  Barbiere di Siviglia 
] 
080-10-18-05109 
10. This work’s welfth chapter discusses the use of fire and other environmental factors. The 1910 
translation of this book discusses the “nine situations,” the use of spies, the laying of plans, and marching 
and maneuvering. This book was written during the Spring and Autumn Period and has been applied by 
Douglas MacArthur and Mao Zedong. For 10 points, name this Chinese text written by Sun Tzu (soo) as a 
manual for the leaders of armies. 
ANSWER:  
The  Art of War 
 [or  
Sunzi Bingfa 
] 
015-10-18-05110 
11. The Enders-Weller-Robbins method directly helped the creation of this item, which took place in 
collaboration with Thomas Francis at the University of Pittsburgh. Albert Sabin modified it into an oral 
form, which is given as three initial doses and a booster. Research on this item was funded by the March of 
Dimes, which sought to end the childhood disease that struck Franklin Roosevelt. For 10 points, identify 
this medical breakthrough, discovered in 1954 by Jonas Salk, which has since wiped out a once-epidemic, 
paralysis-causing infection. 
ANSWER: the  
polio vaccine 
019-10-18-05111 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  2 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. On September 21, 2010, this country’s prime minster Omar Sharmarke resigned from his post, citing 
conflicts between himself and president Sharif Ahmed as reasons. In August, 32 people were killed when 
the Muna Hotel in this country’s capital was stormed by the insurgency group al-Shabab, which is 
currently at war with this country’s government and peacekeepers from nearby Kenya and Ethiopia. For 10 
points, name this African nation with its capital at Mogadishu which in recent years has also been the scene 
of many pirate attacks. 
ANSWER:  
Somalia 
083-10-18-05112 
13. The process of dividing a region into areas of different risk and potential for these phenomena is called 
microzonation (\"MICRO\"-\"zone\"-\"nation\"). These events are measured by the Mercalli intensity scale, and 
generate Rayleigh and Love waves in addition to p and s waves. The location of origin for one of them is 
called the hypocenter and the spot above it on the surface is called the epicenter. Their intensity can be 
measured by the Richter scale. For 10 points, name these events in which the ground shakes. 
ANSWER:  
earthquake 
001-10-18-05113 
14. The sociologist Ernest Burgess used this city’s growth patterns as the basis for his “concentric zone 
model.” The CEO of this city’s public school system, Arne Duncan, was appointed Secretary of Education 
by Barack Obama. Steven Levitt used Sudhir Vankatesh’s data about this city’s drug trade to explain why 
dealers live with their parents. George Stigler, Ronald Coase, and Milton Friedman are associated with 
city’s namesake school of economics. For 10 points, name this large Illinois city. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
015-10-18-05114 
15. These two countries' relationship was strained after a 1999 incident in which one of them bombed the 
other one’s embassy in Belgrade. Two years later, they clashed over the detainment of pilots following the 
Hainan Island incident. These countries directly fought each other after one side’s commander approached 
the Yalu River during the Korean War. Relations between these two countries improved due to Ping Pong 
diplomacy. For 10 points, name these two countries that experienced normalized relations after a 1972 visit 
by Richard Nixon. 
ANSWER:  
U.S.A. 
 and People’s Republic of  
China 
 [or equivalents in either order; do not accept “Republic 
of China” for China] 
064-10-18-05115 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  3 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  What show on the Syfy channel centers around Agents Bering and Lattimer's mission to sequester 
artifacts in the titular facility? 
ANSWER:  
Warehouse 13 
1B.  Beyond the event horizon, not even light can escape the massive gravitational field of what 
astronomical object? 
ANSWER:  
black hole 
s 
2A.  Bourbon Street spans the French Quarter of what city renowned for its celebration of Mardi Gras? 
ANSWER:  
New Orleans 
2B.  What composer incorporated a theme from his  
Danse Macabre 
 into his suite  
Carnival of the Animals 
? 
ANSWER: Camille  
Saint-Saens 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the area of a trapezoid with bases length 8 and 10 
and height 2? 
ANSWER:  
18 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is cosine of theta squared plus sine of theta squared? 
ANSWER:  
1 
4A.  Name the equation with a \"pre-exponential factor\" that calculates the reaction rate given the 
temperature and the activation energy. 
ANSWER:  
Arrhenius 
 Equation 
4B.  What final Emperor of Brazil abolished slavery in that country and won the War of the Triple 
Alliance? 
ANSWER:  
Pedro II 
 of Brazil [prompt on  
Pedro 
] 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the probability of rolling a 6 with 2 die? 
ANSWER:  
5/36 
 [or  
5:36 
] 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the radius of a circle with equation x  + y  = 289 
2 2 
ANSWER:  
17 
6A.  What Spanish verb, which means \"to do\" or \"to make,\" can be used to describe the weather, or in 
expressions to indicate that an action has been occurring for a certain amount of time? 
ANSWER:  
hacer 
 (hah-SAIR) 
6B.  What substance is theorized as either MACHOs or WIMPs and is thought to make up around eighty 
percent of the universe? 
ANSWER:  
dark matter 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is a basketball player's career field goal percentage if 
he has made 2,020 field goals in 2,525 shots? 
ANSWER:  
80% 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Simplify the equation 2 (x - x sub naught) + 3 (y - y sub 
naught) + 8 (z - z sub naught) = 16 if x and y sub naught are equal to 1 and z sub naught is equal to 0. 
ANSWER:  
2x + 3y + 8z = 21 
8A.  Many mistakenly believe that followers of Santería practice animal sacrifice to drink this substance. 
Name this fluid symbolically consumed from Christ’s body in the Eucharistic wine. 
ANSWER:  
blood 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  4 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8B.  Name this Frederic Bartholdi sculpture, a torch-bearing copper-clad female in flowing robes which 
was presented as a gift to the United States from France and now stands in New York Harbor. 
ANSWER: The  
Statue of Liberty 
 [or  
Liberty Enlightening The World 
] 
9A.  What two-word name is applied to the massacre of several people in St. Petersburg protesting 
Nicholas II in Russia in 1905, as well as a day of several violent incidents in Dublin in 1920? 
ANSWER: \" 
Bloody Sunday 
\" 
9B.  Name the NHL team that was led by Patrick Kane and Jonathan Toews (TAYVS) over the 
Philadelphia Flyers in the 2010 Stanley Cup. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
 Blackhawks [or Chicago  
Blackhawks 
] 
10A.  What author wrote the novel  
Dead Souls 
 and the short story \"The Overcoat\"? 
ANSWER: Nikolay Vasilyevich  
Gogol 
10B.  What man is of September 2010 the House Minority Whip and the congressional representative of 
Virginia's 7th district? 
ANSWER: Eric  
Cantor 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  5 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A double mutation of the gene Rb may lead to this phenomena occurring in the eye, and a regulator of a 
process associated with this disease is PUMA, whose expression is induced by the protein p53. That protein 
may initiate apoptosis, the programmed cell death whose absence is responsible for the proliferation of this 
disease, and manifestations of this disease can be classified as either benign or malignant. For 10 points, 
name this disease characterized by the growth of tumors. 
ANSWER:  
cancer 
081-10-18-05117 
2. An easter egg in the second game of this series allows players to get the overpowered Scarab Gun. 
Multiplayer levels in that second game included Midship and Zanzibar. The third game in this series 
included a medal for killing thirty opponents without dying called Invincible, while ten straight kills made 
up a Running Riot. In 2010, a new game was introduced into this series, giving players control of Noble 6 
set on Reach. For 10 points, name this Bungie-developed video game series whose first three entries 
focused on the actions of Master Chief. 
ANSWER:  
Halo 
023-10-18-05118 
3. During one incident in this novel, a sand castle is destroyed by Maurice and Roger. Later, after the 
flashes of a dogfight in the atmosphere, a dead parachutist lands near Sam and Eric. A pig’s head impaled 
on a stick appears to Simon as the title figure of this novel. Its characters learn how to start a fire with a pair 
of glasses and use a conch shell to call meetings. Ultimately, order breaks down and Ralph loses control to 
Jack. For 10 points, name this book by William Golding about a group of schoolboys marooned on an 
island. 
ANSWER:  
Lord of the Flies 
019-10-18-05119 
4. This author wrote about an old man who drinks with an imaginary version of himself in his poem “Mr. 
Flood’s Party.” One of his poems begins by telling the title character to “Go to the western wall.” Another 
poem tells of a “child of scorn” who “loved the days of old.” As well as writing “Luke Havergal,” this 
author also created the fictional inhabitants of Tilbury Town in such poems as “Miniver Cheevy” and one 
about a “gentleman from sole to crown” who “put a bullet in his head.” For 10 points, name this American 
poet who wrote “Richard Cory.” 
ANSWER: Edward Arlington  
Robinson 
083-10-18-05120 
5. This military campaign was preceded by a victory for Baldwin IV at the Battle of Montgisard and the 
defeat of Raynald of Chatillon and Guy of Lusignan at the Battle of Hattin. One side in this campaign 
included forces of the Ayyubid Dynasty. The other side was led by the French ruler Philip II and Richard 
the Lionhearted. Frederick Barbarossa drowned during this military campaign, which was fought against 
the Muslim ruler Saladin. For 10 points, name this third of a series of European attempts to conquer the 
Holy Land. 
ANSWER:  
Third Crusade 
 [prompt on  
Crusade 
] 
064-10-18-05121 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  6 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One god associated with this object sometimes has his chariot drawn by a horse with seven heads and is 
named Surya. In Norse myth, the wolf Sköll chases this object, which was captured in Polynesian myth by 
Maui and his brothers. This object is also associated with the Shinto kami Amaterasu and in Hindu myth it 
was almost eaten by Hanuman, who mistook it for some ripe fruit in the sky. Often seen as a chariot being 
drawn across the sky, this is, for 10 points, what celestial object which is also associated with the Egyptian 
god Ra and the Greek god Helios? 
ANSWER: the  
Sun 
083-10-18-05122 
7. In Sanskrit, any sequence of ganas can be classified as an example of this. When this structure is used 
incompletely it is called a catalexis (cat-uh-LEX-us). A pause in this structure is known as a caesura 
(SAY-zoo-rah). Varieties of this structure include dactylic hexameter and iambic pentameter, and this 
structure is usually divided into feet. For 10 points, name this literary term that refers to the basic rhythmic 
structure of poems. 
ANSWER:  
meter 
 [prompt on \"prosody\"] 
084-10-18-05123 
8. The Pendleton Act ended a debate in this group on the question of civil service reform that had divided it 
into Half-Breeds and Stalwarts. One president of this party signed the McKinley Tariff and the Sherman 
Antitrust Act. This party’s first presidential candidate was John C. Frémont, and it absorbed most of the 
Free Soilers. It was the party of the President who was succeeded by Andrew Johnson and who issued the 
Emancipation Proclamation. For 10 points, name this political party of Abraham Lincoln that opposes the 
Democrats. 
ANSWER:  
Republican 
 Party [or  
Republican 
s; or  
Grand Old Party 
; or  
GOP 
] 
079-10-18-05124 
9. This deity is said to cause earthquakes when he writhes in pain because of the poison dripped on him by 
a snake. He took the form of a mare to give birth to the eight-legged horse Sleipnir. He is the father of the 
wolf Fenrir, Hel, and the Midgard Serpent. He tricked the blind Hod into killing his brother Baldur with a 
bow and arrow. He will kill and be killed by Heimdall at Ragnarok. For 10 points, name this trickster from 
Norse mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Loki 
024-10-18-05125 
10. In one story by this author, a man kills his wife when she stops him from killing the title animal, Pluto. 
This author of “The Black Cat” also wrote a story in which Minister D hides the titular “purloined letter” 
in plain sight. That story features the detective C. Auguste Dupin, who discovers that an orangutan is the 
culprit in his story “The Murders in the Rue Morgue.” Another of his stories details Fortunato’s 
imprisonment by Montresor. For 10 points, name this American author of “The Cask of Amontillado.” 
ANSWER: Edgar Allan  
Poe 
083-10-18-05126 
11. His first book criticized the rationality of Euripedes’ works, preferring the contrast between Apollonian 
and Dionysian in Aeschylus and Sophocles. This writer critiqued Christianity as a slave morality in works 
such as  
Beyond Good And Evil 
, and included a chapter entitled “Why I Write Such Good Books” in his 
autobiography  
Ecce Homo 
. For 10 points, name this German philosopher who declared “God is dead” in  
The Gay Science 
 and imagined an “Ubermensch” in  
Also Sprach Zarathustra 
. 
ANSWER: Freidrich  
Nietzsche 
082-10-18-05127 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  7 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. A character in this novel wins 43,000 rubles playing faro; the loser is unable to marry his cousin Sonya, 
and instead must save his fiancée Marya from an uprising of serfs. The lucky gambler, Nikolay Rostov, 
also hits on Helene and survives the resultant duel with this novel’s protagonist, Pierre Bezhukov. Pierre 
seeks glory by joining the fight against Napoleon in, for 10 points, what sprawling novel about the defense 
of Russia by Leo Tolstoy? 
ANSWER:  
War and Peace 
 [or  
Voyna i Mir 
] 
019-10-18-05128 
13. This work was commissioned by Elizabeth Sprague to use the working title,  
House of Victory 
. Its set 
was designed by Isamu Noguchi, and its title was taken from Hart Crane’s “The Bridge.” The storyline of 
this ballet follows two newlyweds moving into a new house in Pennsylvania. Martha Graham 
choreographed this work, whose seventh section features variations on the Shaker hymn “Simple Gifts”. 
For 10 points, name this Aaron Copland ballet whose title refers to a mountain range in the eastern United 
States. 
ANSWER:  
Appalachian Spring 
080-10-18-05129 
14. Robert Graves wrote an example of this genre called  
Good-Bye to All That 
. Ernest Hemingway's  
A 
Moveable Feast 
 is one, and Richard Wright's  
Black Boy 
 is this sort of work. The entirety of Mark Twain's 
will be published in November 2010. Maya Angelou's is entitled  
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings 
, and 
another example in this genre is Henry Adams's  
The Education of Henry Adams 
. For 10 points, name this 
type of work in which an author describes their life and experiences. 
ANSWER:  
autobiography 
 [or  
memoirs 
; accept word forms] 
001-10-18-05130 
15. These devices are susceptible to a superparamagnetic limit. An important statistic of these devices is 
their areal density. They come in 3.5 and 2.5 inch form factors. Their contents are divided into tracks, 
cylinders, and sectors. A major component of their access time is seek time. These consist of platters over 
which read/write heads move. Recently, some of these have been replaced by Solid-state drives which use 
flash memory. For 10 points, name these devices that store files on a computer and have capacities 
measured in gigabytes and terabytes. 
ANSWER:  
hard drive 
 [or  
hard disk 
] 
001-10-18-05131 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  8 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This river's delta, located partially in the state of Para, sometimes includes the large island of Marajo. 
Formed from the confluence of the Ucayali and Maranon rivers, cities along its banks include Manacapuru 
and Obidos. Its navigability changes near the capital of Loreto and Maynas in Peru, the city of Iquitos, as 
well as near the city of Manaus, where it receives one of its major tributaries, the Rio Negro. For 10 points, 
name this river that flows through much of Brazil, a long South American waterway. 
ANSWER:  
Amazon 
 River 
040-10-18-05132 
2. Two figures, dressed in black and devoid of facial features, embrace in this painter's  
The Kiss, 
 which 
joins his  
Death in the Sick Room 
 and  
The Vampire 
 in his series  
The Frieze of Life 
. Another of his paintings 
from that series was created during a time when the eruption of Krakatoa caused the northern European sky 
to turn red, perhaps explaining the background of that painting, which depicts a bald figure clutching his 
head. For 10 points, name this Norwegian painter of  
The Scream. 
ANSWER: Edvard  
Munch 
019-10-18-05133 
3. The equation for this shape in polar coordinates is R of theta equals A. A cycloid is the curve created by 
the path of a point on one of these shapes moving in a straight line. Venn diagrams portray intersections of 
these shapes, whose area equals pi times R squared. For 10 points, name this shape created by finding all 
points of an equal distance from the center. 
ANSWER:  
circle 
s 
004-10-18-05134 
4. In this novel, the protagonist commits crimes with Jack Duane and works for the corrupt Mike Scully. 
Later, he goes to jail after attacking Phil Connor, who had slept with his wife Ona. The end of this novel 
focuses on a socialist rally whose speaker chants, \"Chicago will be ours!\" The protagonist of this novel is a 
Lithuanian immigrant named Jurgis Rudkus. And the outcry from this novel was largely responsible for the 
1906 Pure Food and Drug Act. For 10 points, name this Upton Sinclair novel known for its graphic 
depictions of Chicago slaughterhouses. 
ANSWER:  
The  Jungle 
064-10-18-05135 
5. The Fermi form of this quantity results from charged particles interacting with moving magnetic clouds, 
while Bremsstrahlung (BREM-\"straw\"-\"lung\") radiation results from charged particles with nonzero values 
for it. The tangential velocity squared divided by the radius yields its centripetal form. The square of the 
final velocity equals the square of final velocity plus twice the product of distance and this quantity. It is 
measured in meters per second squared. For 10 points, name this rate of change of velocity. 
ANSWER:  
acceleration 
001-10-18-05136 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 5     Page  9 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
