NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 TOSSUPS  
1. It's not the viola, but this instrument intones a children's song about a cuckoo in  Der  
Schwanendreher.  The unusual tempo marking \"Andante ma Adagio\" appears in the second  
movement of Mozart's only known concerto for this instrument in B-flat major. Nielsen's sixth  
and Haydn's ninety-third symphonies both have this instrument play a fortissimo \"fart.\" A solo  
for this instrument marked with six \"p\"s appears in Tchaikovsky's  Pathetique  symphony. The  
opening melody of Stravinsky's  The Rite of Spring  is played by this solo instrument in a very  
high register. This instrument represents the grandfather from  Peter and the Wolf.  For 10 points,  
name this richly-baritone double reed woodwind instrument in the standard orchestra.  
ANSWER:  bassoon   
2. This is the heaviest element in a solution added to test for the presence of phenols. Its chloride,  
though milder than aluminum chloride, is still widely used as a Lewis acid in Friedel-Crafts  
reactions. Its pentacarbonyl is commonly seen because this element has eight valence electrons.  
Mossbauer spectroscopy is commonly performed using an isotope of this element. The most  
famous sandwich compound consists of this metal bound to two cyclopentadienyl rings. This  
metal and cyanide are present in Prussian blue, and its sulfide is known as pyrite, or Fool's Gold.  
For 10 points, name this transition metal which is oxidized from +2 to +3 during rusting.  
ANSWER:  iron  [or  Fe ; or  ferrum ]  
3. A man in this world leadership position ceded power to the liberal \"jailbirds,\" but eventually  
got that power back in the Ominous Decade. The shortest-tenured holder of this position served  
seven months before dying of smallpox, a brief interlude in the whopping forty-six years served  
by his father, the longest holder. A mentally-deficient holder of this position had an enormous  
overbite that prevented him from chewing properly. This position was held by the enormously  
in-bred Charles II, and a separate line for this throne was desired by the Carlists. Philip V was  
elevated to this throne as a result of a war that saw fighting at Oudenarde and Malplaquet. For 10  
points, name this throne, succession over which was settled at the Treaty of Utrecht.  
ANSWER:  king of Spain  [or  monarch of Spain ; or answers like  Spanish king s]  
4. In his only literary painting, this artist used his children as models for Faith, Hope, and the  
Red Crosse Knight. In a portrait by him, a high-class woman with no jewelry and rolled up  
sleeves weaves next to her husband. Off the strength of large history paintings like  The Death of  
Major Peirson,  this man was elected to the Royal Academy. This man painted a wooden table  
with a glass of water sitting in front of a golden chain, which is held by the artist's half-brother  
Henry Pelham and is attached to Pelham's pet squirrel. He depicted a silversmith contemplatively  
holding a teapot of his own creation, and painted a rescue in Havana's harbor. For 10 points,  
name this American portraitist of  Paul Revere  and  Watson and the Shark.  
ANSWER:  John Singleton  Copley 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 TOSSUPS  
5. Thomas Tweed called a group of this religion's practitioners the \"night stand\" followers,  
referring to their interaction with it primarily through secondary texts. Sinhalese members of this  
religion annually light a candle for Henry Steel Olcott, who wrote a catechism for it. Elizabeth  
Peabody translated scripture from this religion for the periodical  The Dial.  This religion was  
popular among members of the Theosophical Society, and Helena Blavatsky publicly accepted  
its Five Precepts with Olcott in Sri Lanka. Jack Kerouac was a fan of a Dwight Goddard, who  
wrote a \"bible\" for this religion and co-authored several books with another of its popularizers,  
D.T. Suzuki. For 10 points, name this religion founded by Siddhartha Gautama.  
ANSWER:  Buddhism  [or more specific sects including  Mahayana Theravada Zen ,  ,  , etc.]  
6. This author wrote about a figure whose work the narrator compares to attracting a crowd by  
cracking nuts. In one of this author's stories, the dying emperor sends a messenger to you, his  
subject, who is slowed by throngs of people at the emperor's bedside. He wrote of a woman who  
believes she possesses great musical abilities that bring comfort to her people, the “mouse folk.”  
In another story, a gatekeeper warns a visitor from the country of the even more fearsome  
gatekeepers beyond, and at the end of the visitor's life tells him the gate was built only for him  
and will now be closed. This author of \"Josephine the Singer\" embedded that story, \"Before the  
Law,\" in his novel about Josef K. For 10 points, name this author of  The Trial.   
ANSWER: Franz  Kafka  
7. This character drives on the wrong side of the highway after witnessing a man in a bathrobe  
die in a “purple heap.” This character often plays chess with an obese French professor and  
learns that his first wife spent a year living like an ape and eating bananas with her husband, a  
Russian colonel. Later, he believes that he is being followed by a detective in an “Aztec red  
convertible.” This character’s wife is hit by a car after discovering his diaries, leading this man to  
take a trip to Camp Q. After learning that his daughter-in-law and lover was asked to be in a  
pornographic film, this character kills the playwright Clare Quilty. For 10 points, name this  
admirer of \"nymphets,\" the narrator of Vladimir Nabokov’s  Lolita.  
ANSWER  Humbert  : Humbert   
8. A load resistor and capacitor filter in parallel with a \"bridge\" of these devices can smooth  
output and has a characteristic voltage \"ripple\". That \"bridge\" contains four of these devices,  
constituting a full-wave rectifier that converts an AC input to DC. The current of an ideal one is  
equal to the saturation current times quantity exponential of voltage over thermal voltage, all  
minus one, an equation sometimes named for William Shockley. A simple model of these  
devices assumes they have a constant voltage drop. Examples of these devices that operate above  
the breakdown voltage include the avalanche type and one named for Clarence Zener. They are  
commonly constructed of a p-n junction. For 10 points, identify these devices operated in a  
\"forward\" or \"reverse\" direction, the latter of which does not allow current to flow.  
ANSWER:  diode s 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 TOSSUPS  
9. The 908 organization was created by supporters of this policy. It’s not free speech or  
democracy, but one supporter of this policy published the newspaper “Freedom Era Weekly” and  
set himself on fire rather than be arrested for supporting it. One head of state who created a  
“union” supporting this policy after leaving office set off a 1995 military incident after giving a  
speech at Cornell favoring this policy. This policy was formerly supported by the Democratic  
People’s Party, who are part of the Pan-Green Coalition. Advocates of this process call for  
desinicization, and the movement for this policy was put on the backburner in favor of the  
democracy movement during the White Terror instigated by the KMT. For 10 points, name this  
political goal which is directly opposed by the “One China” policy and calls for the creation of  
an autonomous government in Taipei.  
ANSWER:  Taiwanese independence  [or  Taiwanization ; accept any answer talking about  
autonomy for Taiwan]  
10. This character's presence is linked with a recurring theme consisting of B-flat, A-flat, and E  
chords. This character sings the aria \"Ha piu forte sapore\" in the opera he appears in during Act  
II, which is set at his apartment in the Palazzo Farnese. In the middle of writing a letter of safe  
conduct, this character is stabbed with a knife from a nearby dinner table. This character joins in  
with a chorus singing the  Te Deum  shortly after barging on stage with his henchman Spoletta,  
showing the title character a fan bearing the Attavanti coat of arms. The protagonist sings \"Vissi  
d'Arte\" in refusing to submit to this character in exchange for the freedom of her lover Mario  
Cavaradossi. For 10 points, name this evil chief of police from Puccini's  Tosca.   
ANSWER: Baron  Scarpia   
11. A recent best-selling book called politicians from this country the \"untouchable caste\" and  
detailed corrupt payments to the so-called \"mountain communities\" in this country. A politician  
in this country has organized several V-Days, including a \"Screw You\" day to protest political  
corruption. That politician here is the leader of the Five-Star Movement and is a former  
comedian. A former leader of this country jumped out from behind a pillar to scare Angela  
Merkel, and was recently convicted for tax evasion stemming from his role as the founder of  
Mediaset. That man here was also prosecuted for procuring underage prostitutes at Bunga bunga  
parties. For 10 points, name this country formerly led by the head of The People of Freedom,  
Silvio Berlusconi.  
ANSWER:  Italy  [or  Italia n Republic]  
12. It's not a bird, but a type of these real-life animals with long-arms and man-eating tendencies  
was known as the Xiao. One of these animals accidentally kills his brother by sealing up a cave,  
having mistaken the blood seeping out of it for his sibling's. Prior to their transformation into  
these animals, two gods placed their younger half-brothers on anthills and wore loincloths; post- 
transformation, those relatives of the Mayan Hero Twins become patrons of the arts. Another of  
these animals mistook the sun for a mango and once brought back a whole mountain because an  
herb grew on it. That son of Vayu extinguishes his flaming tail on the sea around Lanka. For 10  
points, give this animal form of Rama's ally Hanuman.  
ANSWER:  monkey  [prompt on  primate ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 TOSSUPS  
13. John Porter East committed suicide while serving in this position in 1986. Easts' successor in  
this position led opposition to an anti-flag burning amendment to the Constitution; that holder of  
this position was one-time governor Terry Sanford. One man who served in this position  
defeated Harvey Gantt in two elections and attacked his opponent Nick Galifianakis' Greek  
heritage in the 1972 election for this position. While serving in this position, Sam Ervin chaired  
the Senate Watergate Committee. One man who served in this position was the running-mate for  
Senator John Kerry in the 2004 presidential elections. For 10 points, name this elected position  
once held by Jesse Helms and John Edwards.  
ANSWER: United States  Senator  from  North Carolina  [prompt on  Senator ]  
14. A pendulum constrained by inverted examples of this curve will have a path that follows a  
congruent, inverted example of this curve, which can be used to create isochronous pendulums  
for clocks. Roberval derived the area under this curve by using the method of indivisibles due to  
Cavalieri. The parametric form of this curve is given by x equals r times quant. t minus sine t and  
y equals r times quant. one minus cosine t. This figure is the fastest path by which a body can  
travel from one point to another under the influence of gravity, making it the solution to the  
brachistochrone problem. For 10 points, name this curve traced out by a point on a rotating circle  
traveling along a line.  
ANSWER:  cycloid s  
15. Subjects in one of this psychologist's experiments were given two identical lists of adjectives  
for a person, plus either the word cold or warm. This psychologist dubbed the result of that  
experiment \"impression formation.\" Stanley Milgram was mentored at Princeton by this  
psychologist, who inspired him to perform the obedience experiment. This psychologist showed  
that people perceive quotations differently if the source was listed as either Thomas Jefferson or  
Vladimir Lenin, a phenomenon known as prestige suggestion. The most famous experiment of  
this psychologist placed Swarthmore college students in a group of confederates for a supposed  
vision test. For 10 points, name this psychologist who ran an experiment where subjects  
identified the longest line, which was designed to test conformity.  
ANSWER: Solomon  Asch   
16. This island's Muslim minority recently founded an Islamic Center in Kelly Village, due east  
of its Caroni Swamp National Park, where a habitat for the scarlet ibis is protected. This island's  
southwest includes a large natural deposit of liquid asphalt called Pitch Lake. In the nineteenth  
century, volcanic activity began at its Devil's Woodyard, near Princes Town. The large and  
growing populace of Chaguanas on this island, located along the Gulf of Paria, includes many  
people of Indian descent. For 10 points, name this island just north of Venezuela, where the  
government in Port-of-Spain also controls a smaller Caribbean island to its northeast called  
Tobago.  
ANSWER:  Trinidad 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 TOSSUPS  
17. One of this author’s novels features a woman who spends her time betting on horse races  
with the help of horoscopes. In a novel by this author, the protagonist uses a false beard to  
disguise himself as “The Complete Man” and invents “pneumatic trousers.” Maurice allows  
himself to be shot by the fascist Brotherhood of Freemen in one of his novels, and that novel  
opens with Walter Bidlake’s mistress complaining about her pregnancy. This author of a novel  
about Philip Quarles also created a character who whips himself at a lighthouse after visiting the  
World State. For 10 points, name this author of  Crome Yellow  and  Point Counter Point  who  
wrote about John the Savage in  Brave New World.   
ANSWER: Aldous  Huxley   
18. A key insight into this condition came from Timothy Pons's research on the fluidity of the  
Penfield map, which was conducted on a group of 12 chimpanzees that had suffered denervation  
during a previous experiment. The neuromatrix theory, proposed by Ronald Melzack, was an  
attempt to explain this disorder, which was originally explained by the formation of neuromas by  
irritation. VS Ramachandran showed that this syndrome occurs due to reorganization of the  
postcentral gyrus, which contains the S1 somatosensory cortex, in a classic example of neural  
plasticity. It can be treated by using a mirror-box, so that the brain is tricked by a mirror image.  
This condition most commonly occurs in amputees. For 10 points, name this syndrome in which  
a missing part of the body is still believed to be there.  
ANSWER:  phantom limb  pain [or  phantom pain ; prompt on \"pain\"]  
19. The speaker of one poem by this author warns the reader to \"look not left or right,\" because  
\"in all the endless road you tread there's nothing but the night.\" This author published the  
authoritative English translation of Marcus Manilius's  Astronomica,  the capstone of his efforts as  
a Classical scholar. This man discussed his unrequited same-sex love for Moses Jackson in his  
posthumously-published essay \"De Amicitia.\" One of this author's poems contains gems of  
wisdom like \"early though the laurel grows / it withers quicker than the rose,\" addressed to a boy  
who was \"chaired... through the market place.\" For 10 points, name this poet who included  
\"When I Was One-and-Twenty\" and \"To An Athlete Dying Young\" in  A Shropshire Lad.   
ANSWER: A. E.  Housman  [or Alfred Edward  Housman ]  
20. This document claims that a secular leader consulted his \"satraps\" while Galligano was in  
power. It also features a story in which a holy water cures that ruler's leprosy. This document  
contradicted a similarly namd text attributed to Pepin the Short, which focused on former  
Lombard holdings. Created during negotiations with Stephen II, this text was critically examined  
by Lorenzo Valla, whose knowledge of Latin led him to question central claims about Pope  
Sylvester I. For 10 points, name this document which claimed to cede the lands which became  
the Papal States to ecclesiastical rule, an 8th-century fraud named for the first Christian Roman  
emperor.  
ANSWER:  Donation  of  Constantine  [or  Donatio Constantini ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 TOSSUPS  
21. In this novel, a woman convalescing in Germany learns that her idol, Madame Stahl, only  
stays bedridden to avoid showing her short legs. Two people in this novel get engaged after a  
game of communicating by writing the first letters of the words they want to say. The French  
psychic Landau convinces a bureaucrat in this novel not to grant his wife a divorce. Towards the  
end of this novel, a landowner finds faith after seeing lightning fell an oak and conversing with  
the peasant Fyodor. Stiva sends for his sister to help save his marriage to Dolly Oblonskaya at  
the beginning of this novel, which asserts that \"Every unhappy family is unhappy in its own  
way.\" For 10 points, name this Leo Tolstoy novel about the lover of Count Vronsky.  
ANSWER:  Anna Karenina   
22.  During the last four decades of its existence, this colony was nominally guided by the  
Ethical Policy. The \"Liberal Period\" of this colony involved the harsh \"cultivation system\" of in- 
kind taxation. Private ownership of this colony ended in 1800, soon after it acquired the  
Sultanate of Mataram. Multatuli's novel  Max Havelaar  explored the exploitative coffee industry  
here. The Japanese occupation from 1942 to 1945 destroyed this colony, which was  
headquartered at Batavia. For 10 points, name this colony initially administered by the VOC in  
Southeast Asia.  
ANSWER:  Dutch East Indies  [or  Dutch Indonesia ; prompt on  Indonesia ; prompt on  Dutch  
East India Company ; prompt on  VOC  until it is read; or \"Netherlands\" in place of \"Dutch\" in  
any answer]  
23. With Lavoisier, this man invented an ice calorimeter, which they used to show that  
respiration was a form of combustion. He corrected Newtonian calculations of the speed of  
sound by taking into account heat compression. This man posited that if a being knew the state of  
the universe at a given point in time, then it could predict the entire future of the universe, a  
thought experiment known as his demon. His namesake equation gives rise to spherical  
harmonics and he investigated the stability of the solar system. His namesake transformation is  
the integral of zero to infinity of a function of t times e to the negative st dt. For 10 points, name  
this French scientist who is the namesake of the divergence of the gradient, written as del  
squared.  
ANSWER: Pierre-Simon  Laplace 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 BONUSES  
1. This concept does not envy, does not boast, and is not proud. For 10 points each:  
[10] Give the English translation of this concept from First Corinthians 13. That oft-recited  
passage says this concept is \"patient,\" \"kind,\" and \"keeps no record of wrongs.\"  
ANSWER:  love   
[10] First Corinthians was written by this prolific apostle, who also penned Romans and  
Galatians, among many other epistles.  
ANSWER:  Paul  [or  Saul ]  
[10] This contemporary of Paul is mentioned in First Corinthians several times. Paul says he  
planted and this man watered. Hailing from Alexandria, he had been educated by Priscilla and  
Aquila.  
ANSWER:  Apollos   
2. If this quantity is less than point oh-five, it is customary to use one asterisk; less than point oh- 
one, two asterisks; less than point oh-oh-one, three asterisks, and so on. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this quantity which indicates the probability of observing a test statistic as extreme, or  
more extreme, than the measurement. Unlike alpha, it should only be calculated after the  
measurement is made.  
ANSWER:  -value  p 
[10] A p-value of point oh-five corresponds to two standard deviations on this distribution,  
according to the empirical rule. According to the central limit theorem, the mean of a large  
number of random variables forms this distribution.  
ANSWER:  normal  distribution [or  Gaussian  distribution; prompt on  bell  curve]  
[10] Another method to test statistical significance, ANOVA, uses this test statistic. It is  
calculated as the variance between treatments divided by the variance within treatments, where  
the variances follow a chi-squared distribution.  
ANSWER:  statistic  F  
3. At the beginning of this novel, the protagonist complains about a cook throwing boiling water  
at him and scalding his left side. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this novel which centers on a professor's attempts to civilize a creature into which he  
has transplanted a human pituitary gland and testicles.  
ANSWER:  Heart of a Dog  [or  Sobach'e serdtse ]  
[10] In this Dostoevsky novel, a dog is cruelly fed a piece of bread with a needle hidden inside  
by Ilyusha. Earlier on, Ivan relates the Parable of the Grand Inquisitor to Alyosha.  
ANSWER:  The  Brothers Karamazov  [or  Bratya Karamazovy ]  
[10] This author's poem \"The Dog\" is actually about three different dogs: a ghost dog, a faithful  
companion, and a rabid dog that kills the faithful companion. This author also wrote \"The  
Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District.\"  
ANSWER: Ivan  Turgenev 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 BONUSES  
4. Walter Benjamin said this person was the ideal inhabitant of the Parisian arcades who  
disappeared when those structures did. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this strolling figure of 19th-century Paris, who is engulfed by the crowd while  
remaining a detached observer of it.  
ANSWER: the  flâneur   
[10] The flâneur was described by this man in a  Le Figaro  essay focused on the career of  
“Monsieur G.” This poet cried out against ennui in his collection  Les Fleurs du Mal.   
ANSWER: Charles  Baudelaire   
[10] Baudelaire claims Monsieur G. tries to “distill the eternal from the transitory” by capturing  
this quality, which Baudelaire elsewhere defines as “the ephemeral, the fugitive, the contingent.”  
ANSWER:  modernity   
5. Common examples of these materials include silicon and gallium arsenide. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these materials with intermediate resistances between those of conductors and  
insulators. Intel uses them to make computer chips.  
ANSWER:  semiconductor s  
[10] This term refers to the energy difference between the valence and conduction bands of a  
semiconductor. Energies in this region are forbidden outside of impurity-created traps and some  
other stuff.  
ANSWER:  bandgap   
[10] This method of doping semiconductors is preferred to diffusion at large processing plants. It  
accelerates ions to high velocities using a high electric field, after which a drive-in step is  
required to complete the doping.  
ANSWER:  ion implantation   
6. Mark Kurlansky wrote a popular  World History  of this good. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this good which was subject to the  gabelle  tax in France. An exorbitant British tax  
functionally banned production of this good along coasts in colonial India.  
ANSWER:  salt  [or  sodium chloride ; or  halite ; or  NaCl ]  
[10] This other historic French tax, often assessed as a \"hearth tax,\" was a direct tax on all landed  
estates.  
ANSWER:  taille  [accept a fouage ]  
[10] The bureaucratic apparatus of this other empire was beset by \"tax farming.\" Within Europe,  
it kidnapped Christian boys who became janissaries and besieged Vienna twice.  
ANSWER:  Ottoman  empire [or Devlet  Osmaniye ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 BONUSES  
7. James Stockdale was inspired by this philosopher during his stint as a POW in Vietnam. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name this philosopher from Hierapolis, whose  Discourses  were recorded by his student  
Arrian. This man inspired, and was repeatedly quoted in, the  Meditations  of Marcus Aurelius.  
ANSWER:  Epictetus   
[10] Epictetus was, like Marcus Aurelius after him, a practitioner of this school of philosophy,  
which emphasized virtue, reason and freedom from emotions.  
ANSWER:  stoicism   
[10] Epictetus also wrote a book with this title, which translates as \"Manual\" or \"Handbook.\"  
Erasmus also wrote a book with this word in the title addressed to a Christian knight.  
ANSWER:  Enchiridion   
8. The petroleum at Manantiales on this archipelago is the only oil field in Chile. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this archipelago located just south of the mainland of South America.  
ANSWER:  Tierra del Fuego   
[10] This channel separates the main island of Tierra del Fuego from the southern islands of  
Navarino and Hoste. A dispute over the islands of Picton, Nueva, and the Lennox Islands in this  
channel nearly led to a 1978 war between Chile and Argentina.  
ANSWER:  Beagle  Channel  
[10] Cruises tracing the voyage of Charles Darwin's  HMS Beagle  depart from this Argentine city,  
which is the capital of the province of Tierra del Fuego.  
ANSWER:  Ushuaia   
9. John Colville compared America's advantage in this deal to the USSR's advantage in its  
dealings with Finland. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 1940 agreement by which 50 mothballed objects were transferred to British  
control in exchange for land for building airfields in Bermuda, Antigua, Jamaica, and St. Lucia.  
ANSWER:  Destroyers for Bases  agreement  
[10] Though the deal represented a rocky start for US-British World War II diplomacy, the two  
powers agreed upon post-war aims in this 1941 charter.  
ANSWER:  Atlantic  Charter  
[10] One year prior to the Destroyers for Bases agreement, the Neutrality Act was amended to  
reflect this policy allowing Britain and France to buy war materials from the U.S.  
ANSWER:  cash and carry  policy 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 BONUSES  
10. E. E. Evans-Pritchard discredited accounts that the Azande performed this action, and  
William Arens argued that Spanish colonialists fabricated accounts of this action among the  
Carib. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this behavior, taboo in most cultures, whose practice among the Fore people of New  
Guinea caused the spread of kuru.  
ANSWER:  cannibal ism [or word forms; or  anthropophagy ]  
[10] This foremost proponent of cultural materialism discussed the cannibalism of a certain  
culture in his  Cannibals and Kings.  He also argued that Indian taboos against cattle slaughter  
were a form of disaster insurance.  
ANSWER: Marvin  Harris   
[10] Harris argued that this culture's reliance on a maize diet led them to practice cannibalism to  
address protein deficiency.  
ANSWER:  Aztec s  
11. This composer, who once carried out an improbable rescue in Dresden during the May  
Uprising, included a slow 6/8 nocturne in F major in the collection  Soirees musicales.  For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this nineteenth-century musician of a Mendelssohn-inspired piano concerto, three  
Romances,  and a G-minor piano trio, who stopped composing new pieces at the age of thirty-six  
to focus on a fruitful career as concert pianist.  
ANSWER:  lara  C Schumann  [or Clara Josephine  Wieck ; prompt on  Schumann ]  
[10] This composer was in love with Clara and frequently found himself third-wheeled at the  
Schumann household. His famous pieces include  A German Requiem  and a lullaby.  
ANSWER: Johannes  Brahms   
[10] Clara is depicted in the C minor piece \"Chiarina,\" which is part of this collection of twenty- 
one solo piano pieces by her husband Robert, which uses musical cryptograms such as A-S-C-H  
in \"Sphinxes\" and other movements depicting revelers at the title festival.  
ANSWER:  Carnaval   
12. The Becker type of this disease is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern while the  
Duchenne type is most common. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this disease that results in skeletal muscle wasting. It can often be identified by a high  
level of creatine kinase.  
ANSWER:  muscular dystrophy   
[10] Patients with muscular dystrophy lack sufficient amount of this protein that allow actin  
filaments to bind correctly with a certain type of glycans.  
ANSWER:  dystrophin   
[10] This maneuver is a classic sign of Becker and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. It involves  
patients rising from a lying position by going to the kneeling position, pushing on the ground to  
get their feet on the floor so that their body forms a triangle with the floor, and finally stepping  
back with their hands until their lower body is straight.  
ANSWER:  Gowers 's sign [or  Gowers 's maneuver; or  butt-first  maneuver] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 BONUSES  
13. Answer these questions about the early American musical theater tradition, for 10 points  
each.  
[10] This composer satirized the U.S. election process in his Gilbert and Sullivan-style musical  
Of Thee I Sing . His music for  Porgy and Bess  is usually categorized as opera.  
ANSWER: George  Gershwin   
[10] This man produced the first integrated musical, Oscar Hammerstein's  Show Boat . He put on  
a yearly revue featuring ornately-dressed girls, his namesake \"Follies\".  
ANSWER: Florenz  Ziegfeld  Jr.  
[10] Many early musical theater songs, such as \"Old Man River\" from  Show Boat  and the song  
\"Anything Goes,\" used this thirty-two-bar song form, in which an eight-bar theme is repeated  
twice, a third eight-bar section diverges, and the last eight-bar section returns to the first theme.  
ANSWER: verse- AABA  form  
14. This phenomenon exists between the compounds n-pentane, isopentane, and neopentane, but  
not also with cyclopentane. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this phenomenon where compounds share the same molecular formula, but have  
different Lewis structures.  
ANSWER: structural  isomer s [or  isomer ism]  
[10] Benzene has multiple structural isomers, including one shaped like a triangular box and  
another with two cyclobutene rings joined together. Name either.  
ANSWER:  prismane  or  Dewar  benzene  
[10] An NMR spectroscopy of a pure hydrogen gas sample will detect para-hydrogen but not  
ortho-hydrogen, which share this kind of isomerism. The property that this kind of isomerism is  
named after is pointing in opposite directions in para-hydrogen.  
ANSWER:  spin  isomers  
15. Answer the following about the European revolutions of 1848, for 10 points each.  
[10] Lajos Kossuth led this country after it shook off Hapsburg rule, but forces under Russia's  
Nicolas I broke up its independent parliament.  
ANSWER:  Hungary   
[10] This king was preceded by Charles X and was forced to abdicate in 1848 at the beginning of  
France's Second Republic.  
ANSWER:  Louis-Phillipe  I [do not accept or prompt on \"Louis\"]  
[10] Friedrich August Peter von Colomb put down the uprising among the \"Greater\" portion of  
this would-be country in 1848.  
ANSWER:  Poland 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 BONUSES  
16. Melantho is a scheming maid in this polis, who gets hanged from the rafters during a mass  
slaughter in its great hall. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this land which also features a bed cut from an olive tree, an island kingdom  
despoiled by Antinous and the other suitors of Penelope.  
ANSWER:  Ithaca  [or  Ithaka ]  
[10] This Ithacan subject is Odysseus’s main helper after he returns to Ithaca disguised as a  
beggar. Despite being a lowly swineherd, he welcomes the old beggar-Odysseus into his home.  
ANSWER:  Eumaeus  [or  Eumaios ]  
[10] Eumaeus thereby expressed this Homeric attribute of proper respect for hospitality, which  
requires hosts to serve their guests well regardless of prior connections.  
ANSWER:  xenia   
17. Some of these works intended for Hendrik Andersen were not published until 2000 in an  
Italian edition. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these documents. Two of them are their author's response to the death of his cousin,  
Minny Temple, and others describe his meeting George Eliot and Charles Darwin while in  
Europe.  
ANSWER:  letter s of Henry  James   
[10] One of James's letters describes the Protestant Cemetery in Rome, which is the resting place  
of this character. This woman shocks Mrs. Walker by brazenly walking alone with Italian men.  
ANSWER:  Daisy  Miller  
[10] Another woman to live in Rome is Isabel Archer, who is duped into believing Gilbert  
Osmond is a widower in this novel.  
ANSWER:  The  Portrait of a Lady   
18. Identify these products of Salvador Dali's twisted imagination, for 10 points each.  
[10] Much has been made of the existential significance of these melting objects in Dali's  The  
Persistence of Memory.   
ANSWER:  clock s [or  timepiece s; or  watch es]  
[10] Two of these animals with absurdly long stiltlike legs appear in a 1948 painting by Dali, but  
he could only fit one such animal onto his canvas  Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a  
Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening.   
ANSWER:  elephant s  
[10] Dali placed a newspaper cutout of this person's head atop a sphinx in a painting deeming her  
\"the youngest, most sacred monster...in her time.\"  
ANSWER: Shirley  Temple  [or Shirley Temple  Black ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 11 BONUSES  
19. This country asked Britain to exile Seretse Khama from a British protectorate after Khama  
married a white woman. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this country which banned interracial marriages in 1949 as part of a series of laws  
instituting apartheid.  
ANSWER:  South Africa   
[10] Official apartheid began after the success of this party in the 1948 elections. This was South  
African's ruling party until the African National Congress's victory in 1994.  
ANSWER: Reunited  National  Party [or  Nationalist s; or Herenigde  Nasionale  Party]  
[10] The National Party defeated this party led by Jan Smuts. This part began through a merger  
of Smuts' South African Party and Barry Hertzog's original Nationalist Party.  
ANSWER:  United  Party  
20. This novel ends with Mrs. Parker and Charlotte visiting the residence of Lady Denham. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name this unfinished novel about the title town, a small fishing village that Mr. Parker  
wishes to modernize. Its female author abandoned writing it in 1817 and died soon after.  
ANSWER:  Sanditon   
[10]  Sanditon  was written by this British author of  Sense and Sensibility.   
ANSWER: Jane  Austen   
[10] Austen created this character, the protagonist of  Northanger Abbey.  She is obsessed with  
Gothic novels and thus fantasizes the title location is suitably mysterious.  
ANSWER:  Catherine  Morland [or Catherine  Morland ]  
21. It was delivered on Radio Magallanes shortly before its speaker allegedly killed himself with  
an AK-47. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this address, delivered from the palace of La Moneda, whose speaker praised \"the  
tradition taught by General Schneider\" and exclaimed \"I will not resign!\"  
ANSWER: Salvador  Allende's farewell  speech [accept anything indicating  Allende  and his  last  
words]  
[10] Allende was overthrown in a 1973 coup led by this general, who led a military regime in  
Chile until 1990.  
ANSWER: Augusto Jose Ramon  Pinochet  Ugarte  
[10] Allende was preceded by this man, who was poisoned by Chile's secret police in 1982. He  
laid the groundwork for Allende's nationalization of the copper industry by establishing the state- 
owned mining company Codelco.  
ANSWER: Eduardo Nicanor  Frei  Montalva 
