2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 6 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. These regions are the bounding areas of horsts and grabens. These regions can create a namesake type of 
breccia. A theory about these regions states that they can suddenly elastically rebound. The thrust type of 
these regions can create mountains. These regions are split into a hanging wall and a foot wall, and can be 
classified as normal and strike-slip. These discontinuities in the crust release energy during earthquakes. 
For 10 points, identify these regions which include the San Andreas one. 
ANSWER:  
fault 
s [or  
fault 
 zones; or  
fault 
 lines; prompt on convergent plate  
boundary 
] 
066-13-90-06101 
2. These compounds bind to the acceptor stem. In living things, these compounds are nearly always found 
in their L-stereoisomers. Hydrogen bonds form between every four of these compounds in an alpha helix. 
They commonly exist as zwitterions at neutral pHs, made up of a carboxylate, an ammonium, a hydrogen 
atom, and a side chain. The degeneracy of the genetic code explains why there aren’t 64 of these coded for 
by mRNAs, only 20. For 10 points, name these building blocks of proteins. 
ANSWER:  
amino acid 
s 
190-13-90-06102 
3. One of this author's novels opens with Pete helping his friend in a fight, though his seduction of Jimmie's 
sister, the title character, leads to her prostitution and death. One of this author's protagonists takes up the 
flag during a seemingly suicidal charge of the 304th Regiment. This author of  
Maggie, A Girl of the Streets 
is best known for a novel about the initially-cowardly Civil War soldier Henry Fleming. For 10 points, 
identify this American author of  
The Red Badge of Courage. 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Crane 
233-13-90-06103 
4. This sculptor depicted the assassination of an Assyrian general by a widow in his  
Judith and Holofernes. 
This man sculpted  
St. Mark 
 and  
St. George 
 for the Orsanmichele. He created an equestrian statue of 
Erasmo of Nami known as  
Gattamelata, 
 and he also sculptured a boy with his foot on the head of the slain 
Goliath. For 10 points, name this Renaissance artist famous for his bronze, nude  
David. 
ANSWER:  
Donatello 
 [or Donato di Niccolo di Betto  
Bardi 
] 
227-13-90-06104 
5. Anarchist Alexander Berkman attempted to murder the chairman of a company that produced this good 
when workers with this product launched the Homestead Strike. The best-known magnate in the production 
of this good wrote \"The Gospel of Wealth\" to advocate philanthropy on the part of the upper classes, 
having himself built a fortune despite being an immigrant from Scotland. For 10 points, name this product 
of the Bessemer Process off of which Andrew Carnegie made his fortune. 
ANSWER:  
steel 
 [prompt on  
iron 
] 
080-13-90-06105 
6. This group originally featured Ron McGovney as bassist. McGovney's replacement died in a bus crash in 
Sweden in 1986. A song by this band says, \"Blood will follow blood, dying time is here.\" That song is 
\"Damage Inc.\" The cover art of this band's fourth album shows the statue of Lady Justice cracked, bound 
by ropes, and her scales being tipped by money. For 10 points, name this American metal band with songs 
such as \"Seek and Destroy\", \"One\", and \"Enter Sandman\" 
ANSWER:  
Metallica 
225-13-90-06106 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  1 of 9 
7. Optical power resulting from this phenomenon is maximized in an echelette grating. Von Laue pioneered 
the use of X-rays undergoing this phenomenon to study crystal structures. This phenomenon led to 
interference when electrons were fired at a nickel target in the Davisson-Germer experiment. It also created 
dark and light spots from interfering light waves in the double slit experiment. For 10 points, name this 
phenomenon in which light bends around obstacles. 
ANSWER:  
diffraction 
 [or  
interference 
 before mention] 
190-13-90-06107 
8. At the end of this play, two characters attempt to hang themselves by taking off one of their belts, only 
for its owner's pants to fall off. It ends with the stage direction \"They do not move,\" which follows the line 
\"Yes, let's go.\" In this play, Pozzo appears twice carrying Lucky around on a rope. It mostly consists of the 
discourse between two tramps who call each other Didi and Gogo, Vladimir and Estragon. For 10 points, 
name this absurdist play by Samuel Beckett in which the title character fails to make an appearance. 
ANSWER:  
Waiting for Godot 
 [or  
En Attendant Godot 
] 
080-13-90-06108 
9. Critical damping occurs when a value named for this letter is equal to ½. Glutamine is symbolized by 
this letter. The set of rational numbers is labeled with this letter. RT divided by NF is multiplied by the log 
of a quantity symbolized by this letter in the Nernst equation; at equilibrium, that number is equal to the 
equilibrium constant. For 10 points, name this letter which designates heat, electric charge, and the reaction 
quotient. 
ANSWER:  
Q 
190-13-90-06109 
10. The chelating agent EDTA can be used in the complexometric type of this technique. A curve named 
after this technique includes the equivalence point. The endpoint of this technique can be denoted by an 
indicator such as phenolphthalein. This technique, which has an acid-base type, uses a buret. For 10 points, 
name this chemical technique used to determine the concentration of a solution. 
ANSWER:  
titration 
 [accept word forms] 
140-13-90-06110 
11. In one of this author’s books, he writes that he feels like a chess piece that has been told it cannot move 
by an opponent. This author contrasted the happy “knight of faith” with the “knight of infinite 
resignation.” In one of his books, he explored the anxiety Abraham felt when being told to sacrifice Isaac. 
This man used such aliases as “Johannes de Silentio” and “Hilarius Bookbinder.” For 10 points, name this 
Danish philosopher who wrote  
Fear and Trembling 
 and  
Either/Or. 
ANSWER: Søren Aabye  
Kierkegaard 
 [or Johannes de  
Silentio 
 until it is read; or Victor  
Eremita 
; or 
William  
Afham 
; or Frater  
Taciturnus 
; or Constantin  
Constantius 
; or Vigilius  
Haufniensis 
; or Nicolaus  
Notabene 
; or A.B.C.D E.F.  
Godthaab 
; or A.B.C.D.E.F.  
Rosenblad 
; or  
Inter et Inter 
; or  
Procul 
; or 
Captain  
Scipio 
; or  
Judge William 
; or  
A.F. 
; or Hilarius  
Bookbinder 
 until it is read; or Johannes  
Climacus 
; 
or  
H.H. 
; or  
Anti-Climacus 
; prompt on  ; prompt on  ] 
A B 
052-13-90-06111 
12. An important source for this colony's history is the journal of its thirty-time governor, William 
Bradford. This colony established a crucial alliance with the Wampanoag chief Massassoit. This colony's 
first European inhabitants left the Netherlands on the  
Speedwell. 
 This colony's inhabitants learned to grow 
maize with the help of the Patuxet Indian Squanto. For 10 points, name this colony in modern-day 
Massachusetts founded after the  
Mayflower 
 reached a namesake \"rock.\" 
ANSWER:  
Plymouth 
 Colony [prompt on  
Massachusetts 
; do not accept or prompt on \"Massachusetts Bay 
Colony\"] 
080-13-90-06112 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  2 of 9 
13. Sir Philip Sidney's  
Defence of Poesy 
 describes the common medieval practice of predicting the future 
by selecting a line at random from this text. One character in this text falls behind in a footrace by slipping 
in some blood from an animal sacrifice, but trips another competitor to allow his friend to win. Earlier in 
this text, Aeolus summons a storm at the behest of Juno, who hates the main character as he is a survivor 
from Troy. The main character wars against Turnus after fleeing Carthage following the suicide of Dido. 
For 10 points, name this Latin epic poem written by Virgil. 
ANSWER:  
Aeneid 
020-13-90-06113 
14. At this battle, one side's Breton force was repelled and made to believe that their leader had died. A 
landing at Pevensey preceded this engagement, which came after a victory at Stamford Bridge. This battle, 
which is depicted on the Bayeux Tapestry, ended with the death of Harold Godwinson. For 10 points, name 
this 1066 battle won by William the Conqueror to begin the Norman conquest of England. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Hastings 
192-13-90-06114 
15. Charlie Citrine writes plays about Von Trenck in one of this author’s novels. Another of his characters 
travels with Romilayu, and becomes revered after moving a wooden statue. A character created by this 
author marries Madeleine and writes numerous unsent letters. This author of  
Henderson the Rain King 
wrote about a character who travels to Mexico after growing up in Chicago. For 10 points, name this author 
of  
Herzog 
 and  
The Adventures of Augie March. 
ANSWER: Saul  
Bellow 
232-13-90-06115 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 6 
Directed Round 
1A.  What archipelago is separated by the Strait of Magellan from mainland Chile and Argentina? 
ANSWER:  
Tierra del Fuego 
 [or the  
Land of Fire 
] 
1B.  The rules governing the use of what number first appeared in a text by Brahmagupta? 
ANSWER:  
zero 
2A.  What author of  
Capitalism and Freedom 
 was the leader of the Chicago School of economics and 
promoted monetarism? 
ANSWER: Milton  
Friedman 
2B.  What painting by Jean-Honore Fragonard depicts a hidden man peeking at a pink-dressed woman 
riding the title object? 
ANSWER:  
The  Swing 
 [or  
L' Escarpolette 
] 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. How many real numbers satisfy the equation \"4 x squared 
minus 17 x plus 20 equals 3\"? 
ANSWER:  
2 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. In a game of Monopoly, if you roll doubles on three straight 
rolls of two dice, you go directly to jail. If you play with two fair dice, what is the probability of this 
happening? 
ANSWER:  
1/216 
 [or  
1 out of every 216 
 turns] 
4A.  What Norse god of winter was killed by Vali after accidentally slaying his brother Baldr? 
ANSWER:  
Hod 
ur 
4B.  What pair of students kidnapped and killed Bobby Franks and were defended at their trial by Clarence 
Darrow? 
ANSWER: Nathan  
Leopold 
 and Richard Albert  
Loeb 
 [prompt if only one name is given] 
5A.  What tennis player founded the Women's Tennis Association and gives her name to a center that is the 
home of the US Open? 
ANSWER: Billie Jean  
King 
 [or Billie Jean  
Moffitt 
] 
5B.  The Nina and Pinta sailed alongside what flagship of Christopher Columbus' trans-Atlantic 
expedition? 
ANSWER:  
Santa Maria 
6A.  Coleridge's \"On a Volunteer Singer\" is an example of what kind of brief, witty or memorable 
statement? 
ANSWER:  
epigram 
6B.  What three-dimensional coordinate system specifies points in terms of their distance to the origin and 
angle to two axes? 
ANSWER:  
spherical 
 coordinates 
7A.  What Netflix original series is based on a book by Piper Kerman and stars Taylor Schilling as Piper 
Chapman, a woman imprisoned for transporting drug money? 
ANSWER:  
Orange is the New Black 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  What conical flask found in laboratories is named for a German chemist? 
ANSWER:  
Erlenmeyer 
 flask 
8A.  What prolific German author wrote of an artist’s unrequited love for Lotte in  
The Sorrows of Young 
Werther 
? 
ANSWER: Johan Wolfgang von  
Goethe 
8B.  In which opera by Mozart does a statue at a dinner party drag the title character, a notorious seducer, 
into hell? 
ANSWER:  
Don Giovanni 
 [or  
Il dissoluto punito, ossia il  Don Giovanni 
] 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A rectangular prism has a volume of 80 cubic centimeters 
and all three dimensions are integers. If the base is a square, what is the minimum height of the prism? 
ANSWER:   centimeters 
5 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the cosine of the arcsin of negative 5/6? Express your 
answer in simplest radical form. 
ANSWER: square  
root 
 of  
11, over 6 
 [or  
radical 11, over 6 
] 
10A.  What literary character is shipwrecked at the mouth of the Orinoco River and frees a prisoner whom 
he names Friday? 
ANSWER: Robinson  
Crusoe 
 [or  
Robinson 
 Crusoe] 
10B.  What language uses scripts such as  
romanji kanji 
,  , and  
katakana 
? 
ANSWER:  
Japanese 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 6 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Richard Lawrence tried to assassinate this president. This president won a battle two weeks after the 
Treaty of Ghent was signed. This \"Hero of New Orleans\" fought against an institution led by Nicholas 
Biddle and lost the 1824 election due to a compromise that was dubbed the \"Corrupt Bargain.\" This signer 
of the Indian Removal Act also fought the Second Bank of the United States. For 10 points, name this 
seventh president, who was nicknamed \"Old Hickory.\" 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Jackson 
186-13-90-06117 
2. This composer's short piano piece  
Albumblatt 
 was rediscovered and given its premiere in 2012. This 
man’s fourth symphony includes variations of a theme from Bach’s  
Cantata No. 150 
. His  
Four Serious 
Songs 
 were written in memory of Clara Schumann, with whom this composer was in love. This composer 
included student drinking songs in his  
Academic Festival Overture. 
 For 10 points, name this German 
composer who composed a famous lullaby. 
ANSWER: Johannes  
Brahms 
030-13-90-06118 
3. This empire fought wars against the Tarascan Kingdom, which was located west of it. Formed out of an 
alliance among three city-states, this empire fought Flower Wars with neighboring cities and used prisoners 
from them in sacrificial rites. The downfall of this empire came after they mistook one enemy’s arrival as 
that of the god Quetzalcoatl. For 10 points, name this Mesoamerican civilization, which was conquered by 
Hernan Cortes. 
ANSWER:  
Aztec 
 Empire [or the  
Aztecs 
] 
140-13-90-06119 
4. This novel's sequel features characters Lew Rabinowitz and Sammy Singer, and is titled  
Closing Time 
. A 
name mixup in this novel leads to the sending home of A. Fortiori, instead of the man Major Sanderson 
thought crazy, leading to the protagonist asking Dobbs if he will kill Colonel Cathcart. M&M Enterprises 
makes millions for this novel's character Milo Minderbinder. In this novel, Yossarian can't stop flying 
bombing missions unless he's insane, but his desire to stop bombing proves his sanity. For 10 points, 
identify this novel by Joseph Heller. 
ANSWER:  
Catch-22 
233-13-90-06120 
5. In a book by this author, the protagonist's friend realizes he has left at home the sermons he was planning 
to publish while at Mr. Tow-house's inn. That work's protagonist meets his friend Abraham Adams while 
fleeing the unwanted advances of Lady Booby. In another of this man's novels, the protagonist learns he is 
not the illegitimate son of Jenny Jones but Squire Allworthy's sister. This man parodied Samuel 
Richardson's books in  
Shamela 
 and a book about Pamela's brother,  
Joseph Andrews. 
 For 10 points, name 
this author of  
Tom Jones. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Fielding 
121-13-90-06121 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  6 of 9 
6. This principle is put into use for the Haber-Bosch process in determining the temperature and pressure to 
use. This principle does not apply to reactions that make use of a catalyst, or in reactions where pressure is 
changed but the same number of gas molecules are on both sides. For 10 points, identify this principle 
named for a French chemist that describes how changes to conditions such as temperature and pressure can 
cause a change in a reaction's equilibrium. 
ANSWER:  
Le Chatelier 
's principle 
023-13-90-06122 
7. A mountain in this country has a glacier named for Walter Furtwangler. In this country, creatures named 
Fifi and David Greybeard demonstrated toolmaking skills by “fishing” for termites. It has a mountain 
whose highest peak is named “Uhuru.” This country is home to the Gombe Stream National Park where 
Dr. Jane Goodall has studied chimpanzees. For 10 points, name this African country that is home to Mount 
Kilimanjaro. 
ANSWER: United Republic of  
Tanzania 
052-13-90-06123 
8. The adjacency variety of these constructs are used in solving graph theory problems and are often 
symmetric. These things are Hermitian if equal to their own conjugate transpose. When they are 
non-singular, they represent a linear transformation, and the sum of some of their elements is called their 
trace. One can use the expansion by minors technique to find the determinants of these things. For 10 
points, name these rectangular arrays of numbers which have rows and columns. 
ANSWER:  
matrices 
 [or  
matrix 
, accept rectangular  
array 
s before mentioned] 
233-13-90-06124 
9. This book's protagonist rejects Mistress Hibbins' offer to meet the “Black Man” in the forest while 
practicing witchcraft. The narrator claims to have found the title object while working in a Massachusetts 
customs house. When three characters learn their journey to Europe will include the protagonist's husband, 
Arthur Dimmesdale reveals in an Election Day speech the symbol seared into his chest. For 10 points, 
name this novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne where Hester Prynne wears the title badge of shame. 
ANSWER:  
The  Scarlet Letter 
121-13-90-06125 
10. The national park of Rock Creek is in the middle of this city. Diagonal streets intersect its street grid at 
traffic circles as part of the city plan of Charles L'Enfant. The Freer Gallery has a large collection of Asian 
art in this city and is part of a larger museum group that includes the Hirshorn Gallery and the Air and 
Space Museum. This home to the Smithsonian at one time contained land now part of Arlington County. 
For 10 points, name this capital of the United States. 
ANSWER:  
Washington 
, D.C. [or Washington,  
D.C. 
] 
121-13-90-06126 
11. This man once hung a bronze snake on a pole to heal those who had been bitten by snakes for 
complaining. His sister was struck with leprosy for speaking out against his marriage to an Ethiopian 
woman. This man could not enter Canaan after he struck a rock to bring forth water, and he first saw God 
on Mount Horeb in the form of a burning bush. His brother was Aaron, who created the Golden Calf when 
this man was on Mount Sinai. For 10 points, name this Jewish leader who led the Israelites out of Egypt. 
ANSWER:  
Moses 
052-13-90-06127 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  7 of 9 
12. In January 2011, a homeless man living in this state gained fame after a video showcased his \"golden 
voice.\" Another resident of this state gave an interview in May 2013 in which he said a woman's action was 
a \"dead giveaway.\" That interview in this state took place after the rescue of Gina DeJesus, Michelle 
Knight, and Amanda Berry. For 10 points, name this state in which Ariel Castro held women captive for 
more than ten years in his house in Cleveland. 
ANSWER:  
Ohio 
023-13-90-06128 
13. In plants, the reduction of P680+ is coupled with the production of NADPH and this molecule. The 
classic model of enzyme cooperativity is the binding of four molecules of this molecule to protein. This 
molecule is the final electron acceptor in the electron transport chain. In the absence of this molecule, 
muscle cells produce lactate. Aerobes require this compound to live. For 10 points, name this molecule 
which is exchanged with carbon dioxide by the lungs. 
ANSWER: diatomic  
oxygen 
 [or  
O2 
; or molecular  
oxygen 
] 
190-13-90-06129 
14. This data type is most commonly represented using two's complement notation. In many languages, the 
keywords short and long are used to define a variable of this data type. Addition and subtraction on data of 
this type uses modulo arithmetic, and arrays are indexed by data of this type. float and this data type are the 
most common numerical data types. For 10 points, identify this data type that only stores whole numbers. 
ANSWER: signed binary  
int 
egers [or  
integral 
 data type; prompt on  
binary 
 numbers] 
066-13-90-06130 
15. In one of this author's novels, a longshoreman teams up with Martin Decoud to smuggle silver from 
Charles Gould's mines. The main character of another novel by this man is stranded in the Central Station 
waiting for his steamship to be repaired. The narrator of that novel by him comes across a pamphlet reading 
\"Exterminate all the brutes\" and lies to a widow about the words \"The horror! The horror!\" For 10 points, 
name this author of  
Nostromo 
 and a book about Marlow's journey to Africa to find Kurtz,  
Heart of 
Darkness. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Conrad 
 [or Jozef Teodor  
Konrad 
 Korzeniowski] 
020-13-90-06131 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 6 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This law can be stated that the product of conductivity and electric field equals the current density. The 
proportionality constant in this law equals resistivity times length over cross-sectional area. For 10 points, 
name this law which gives the change in electric potential through a resistor as voltage equals current times 
resistance, whose discoverer also names the SI unit of resistance. 
ANSWER:  
Ohm's 
 Law 
190-13-90-06132 
2. A politician during this war dismissed the Treaty of London as “a scrap of paper” when his country 
violated it. Sir Edward Grey allegedly said “The lamps are going out all over Europe” on the eve of this 
war. Propaganda posters referred to the “Rape of Belgium,” which was part of the Schlieffen Plan. This 
war's nominal cause was the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand. For 10 points, name this war fought 
between Allied and Central powers from 1914 to 1918. 
ANSWER:  
World War I 
 [or  
Great War 
] 
121-13-90-06133 
3. While living at Salem House, the main character of this work fantasizes about being like the literary 
character Roderick Random and is punished by Mr. Creakle for wearing a sign that reads “Take care of 
him. He bites.” One character in this work was a clerk in Mr. Wickfield’s law office, steals Miss 
Trotwood’s fortune, and is named Uriah Heep. The main character’s first marriage is to Dora Spenlow, 
and he ultimately marries Agnes Wickfield. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical novel by 
Charles Dickens. 
ANSWER:  
David Copperfield 
030-13-90-06134 
4. In a reversible compression, this quantity equals RT times the log of the ratio of volumes. This quantity 
equals the negative integral of pressure with respect to volume, and the First Law of Thermodynamics 
relates the change in internal energy to heat and this quantity. This quantity is equivalent to the change of 
kinetic energy in a system, and like energy, is measured in joules. For 10 points, name this quantity equal to 
the dot product of force and displacement. 
ANSWER:  
work 
190-13-90-06135 
5. In 2013, this country's president engaged in several legal conflicts with Grupo Clarìn, which is targeted 
by a new law on media ownership. This country seized the assets of Spanish oil company Repsol in 2012, 
and was warned of an IMF \"red card\" in 2013 after producing false data on inflation and GDP. For 10 
points, name this country which has been governed since 2003 by one family, since Nestor Kirchner was 
succeeded by his wife Cristina Fernández. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Argentina 
019-13-90-06136 
What nematode studied by Sydney Brenner is often used as a model organism? 
ANSWER:  
C. elegans 
 [or  
Caenorhabditis elegans 
] 
This is a calculation question. What is the reference angle for an angle measuring 1,150 degrees? 
ANSWER:   degrees 
70 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regular Season 1     6     Page  9 of 9 
