2013 VHSL Districts 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In one of this man’s plays, Abbie Putnam kills her baby as Eben schemes to inherit the farm of his 
father, Ephraim Cabot. This author of  
Desire Under the Elms 
 also created “Hickey” Hickman, who realizes 
that people must hold on to their pipe dreams. Mary is addicted to morphine and married to the actor James 
in this man’s play about the Tyrone family. For 10 points, name this American playwright of  
The Iceman 
Cometh 
 and  
Long Day’s Journey into Night. 
ANSWER: Eugene  
O’Neill 
 [or Eugene Gladstone  
O'Neill 
] 
149-12-73-05101 
2. In one of this man's works, a character teaches a slave geometry to prove that learning is only 
recollection. Characters try to define virtue in that work, the  
Meno. 
 He described people chained so that 
they could only see shadows reflected on a wall in his Allegory of the Cave in another work. This man 
developed the Theory of Forms, the highest of which was the Good, which he describes in  
The Republic. 
For 10 points, name this student of Socrates. 
ANSWER:  
Plato 
121-12-73-05102 
3. One character in this novel remarks, \"He's more myself than I am. Whatever our souls are made of, his 
and mine are the same.\" Minor characters in this work include a housekeeper named Zillah and a religious 
fanatic named Joseph. Nelly Dean narrates a portion of this work, and Mr. Lockwood rents Thrushcross 
Grange in this novel. The Linton family is central to this novel, which focuses on the romance between 
Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff. For 10 points, identify this novel written by Emily Bronte. 
ANSWER:  
Wuthering Heights 
189-12-73-05103 
4. This river passes through the Mather Gorge after it gains speed descending Great Falls. One of this 
river's tributaries is the Monocacy River. A 1910 Supreme Court case set this river as the border between 
West Virginia and Maryland. This river meets the Shenandoah River at the town of Harpers Ferry. This 
river, with North and South branches, flows into Chesapeake Bay. For 10 points, name this river that passes 
through Washington, D.C. 
ANSWER:  
Potomac 
 River 
023-12-73-05104 
5. These objects can form when a body's mass passes the Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit. These 
objects can be completely described by mass, angular momentum, and electric charge, according to the \"no 
hair\" theorem. It is believed that almost all galaxies have a supermassive one of these objects at their 
center. For 10 points, name this astronomical objects within which gravity is so strong that not even light 
can escape. 
ANSWER:  
black hole 
s 
014-12-73-05105 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  1 of 9 
6. The stock characters of Pierrot and Arlecchino play this role. An early form of this word referred to any 
country person lacking in culture and sophistication. Shakespeare sometimes uses this word in his plays to 
designate characters such as the gravediggers in Act 5 of  
Hamlet 
. People suffering from coulrophobia have 
a fear of the performers who bear this title. For 10 points, what is this word that refers to the comic 
performers in a traditional circus? 
ANSWER:  
clown 
045-12-73-05106 
7. In his highest post, this man demanded the resignation of Chester Arthur from the New York 
customs-house. His teetotaling wife was nicknamed \"Lemonade Lucy.\" He was derisively called \"His 
Fraudulency\" after coming to office in a close election. Justice Joseph Bradley was on a commission that 
named this man President following that race against Samuel Tilden. For 10 points, name this President 
who succeeded Ulyssees S. Grant and brought an end to Reconstruction. 
ANSWER: Rutherford Birchard  
Hayes 
030-12-73-05107 
8. This law contributes the first term of the Lorentz force. The constant in this law equals one over four pi 
times the permittivity of free space. An expression for electric field can be calculated by dividing both sides 
of this equation by a test charge. Like Newton's Law of Gravitation, this law gives an inverse-square 
dependence on distance. For 10 points, name this law which gives the force between two stationary 
charges, named for a Frenchman who also names the SI unit of charge. 
ANSWER:  
Coulomb 
's Law 
190-12-73-05108 
9. This city's influence in Sicily was weakened after its defeat in the battle of Himera. It contained the 
\"Tophet of Salammbo\" where skeletal remains suggest children may have been sacrificed to Ba'al 
Hammon. In one war, this city's opponent used a boarding device called a corvus to attack its ships. In 
another war, this city lost at the Battle of Zama after a huge victory at Cannae. For 10 points, name this 
opponent of Rome in the Punic Wars and home of Hannibal. 
ANSWER:  
Carthage 
 [or  
Carthago 
; or  
Kart-hadasht 
] 
121-12-73-05109 
10. He wrote a novel about how the creation of “Boomfood” results in a war between giants and humans 
titled  
The Food of the Gods. 
 This author also wrote a work about the Eloi's struggle against the molelike 
Morlocks. He also wrote a novel in which Ogilvy discovers the landing site of cylinders, from which 
emerge beings who lack immunity to Earth’s bacteria. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Time 
Machine 
 and  
The War of the Worlds 
. 
ANSWER: H. G.  
Wells 
 [or Herbert George  
Wells 
] 
030-12-73-05110 
11. Muhammad was able to convert the servant-boy Addas to Islam by saying of this man, \"we are 
brothers.\" This person, who unluckily loses a game of casting lots, is provided shade by a plant until a 
worm causes the plant to wither away. This happens to him because he went to Jaffa, then Tarshish, instead 
of Nineveh. For 10 points, name this prophet who was swallowed by a giant fish. 
ANSWER:  
Jonah 
 [or  
Yona 
; or  
Yunus 
; or  
Dhul-Nun 
; or  
Ionas 
] 
020-12-73-05111 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  2 of 9 
12. During one part of this story, three lodgers are disgusted with the conditions of the main family's 
apartment. The central family of this story includes a girl who plays the violin for those lodgers and is 
named Grete. The father in this story throws apples at his son, who is injured by one and dies, allowing his 
family to improve their living situation. For 10 points, name this work about Gregor Samsa's unexpected 
change into an insect, written by Franz Kafka. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Metamorphosis 
\" [or \"Die  
Verwandlung 
\"] 
023-12-73-05112 
13. A Ramachandran plot shows the bond angles psi and phi in these molecules. One of these molecules is 
an excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and opposes the actions of GABA. They exist 
predominantly in the L stereoisomer. The sequence in which they bind determines primary structure, and 
those that cannot be synthesized by the body are known as \"essential.\" When these molecules are linked, 
they form peptide bonds. For 10 points, name these building blocks of proteins. 
ANSWER:  
amino acid 
s [or  
protein 
s until it is read; or  
peptide 
s until it is read] 
140-12-73-05113 
14. This man hired the boxer Harry Bennett to attack union leaders including Walter Reuther. He doubled 
wages when he introduced a wage of five dollars per day. He published the anti-Semitic  
Protocols of the 
Elders of Zion 
 in his newspaper, the  
Dearborn Independent. 
 This man said consumers could have one of 
his company's products in any color \"so long as its black.\" For 10 points, name this businessman whose 
company produced the Model T automobile. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Ford 
121-12-73-05114 
15. During the Gulf War, this ship was involved in a friendly fire incident with the USS  
Jarrett 
. It was once 
William Halsey's flagship. A prominent tophat was worn by Foreign Minister Mamoru Shigemitsu in a 
ceremony aboard this vessel, during which it flew the flag that was over the White House on December 7, 
1941. For 10 points, name this battleship on which Admiral Chester Nimitz and Douglas MacArthur 
accepted the Japanese surrender in 1945. 
ANSWER: USS  
Missouri 
030-12-73-05115 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Districts 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  What father of Carl Philipp Emanuel wrote the  
St. Matthew Passion 
 and the  
Brandenburg Concertos? 
ANSWER:  
Johann Sebastian Bach 
 [or  
J.S. Bach 
; prompt on  
Bach 
] 
1B.  What Dutch computer scientist has a namesake algorithm that solves the shortest path problem for a 
graph with nonnegative edge path costs? 
ANSWER: Edsger  
Dijktsra 
 (dyke-stra) 
2A.  What Baroque Italian composer wrote some of the earliest operas, such as  
L'Orfeo 
 and  
The 
Coronation of Poppaea 
? 
ANSWER: Claudio  
Monteverdi 
2B.  What Orson Welles film revolves around the cryptic dying word \"Rosebud,\" spoken by the namesake 
newspaper magnate? 
ANSWER:  
Citizen Kane 
3A.  What French sociologist wrote books on  
The Division of Labor in Society 
 and  
Suicide? 
ANSWER: Émile  
Durkheim 
3B.  What floppy-haired Spanish point guard joined the Minnesota Timberwolves in 2011? 
ANSWER: Ricky  
Rubio 
 [or Ricard  
Rubio 
 Vives] 
4A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the cosine of the third-quadrant angle whose 
reference angle is 60 degrees? 
ANSWER:  
-1/2 
 [or  
-0.5 
] 
4B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the sample variance of a set whose sample standard 
deviation is 16? 
ANSWER:  
256 
5A.  Which group of elements, with atomic numbers 57 through 71, demonstrates a namesake \"contraction\" 
as a result of poor shielding by 4f electrons? 
ANSWER:  
lanthanide 
s [or  
lanthanoid 
s] 
5B.  Which brain region behind the brain stem is responsible for ensuring coordinated, precise movements? 
ANSWER:  
cerebellum 
6A.  What state's Indian-American governor, Nikki Haley, is tasked with replacing retiring senator Jim 
DeMint? 
ANSWER:  
South Carolina 
6B.  What scale of hardness, named for an Austrian geologist, is based on a scratch test? 
ANSWER:  
Mohs 
 hardness scale 
7A.  Mad scientist Walter Bishop appears on what FOX series, created by J.J. Abrams, about a division of 
the FBI investigating paranormal activity? 
ANSWER:  
Fringe 
7B.  What English scientist discovered the principle of electromagnetic induction on which electric 
generators are based? 
ANSWER: Michael  
Faraday 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  4 of 9 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all x-intercepts of the curve y = x^3 - 3x^2 - x + 3 
(READ: \"y equals x cubed minus three x squared minus x plus three\"). 
ANSWER:  
-1, 1, and 3 
 [or  
(-1,0), (1,0), (3,0) 
; do not accept or prompt on partial answer] 
8B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A hexagon has angles measuring 135, 135, 150, 110, and 105 
degrees. What is the measure of the sixth angle? 
ANSWER:   degrees 
85 
9A.  What country was once ruled by \"Papa Doc\" Francois Duvalier, who employed a secret police force 
called the Tonton Macoutes (TAWN-TAWN mah-COOT)? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Haiti 
 [or Republique d' 
Haiti 
; or Repiblik d'  
Ayiti 
] 
9B.  What character fights Daniel Webster in court over the fate of the farmer Jabez Stone in a Stephen 
Vincent Benet short story? 
ANSWER: the  
Devil 
 [or Mr.  
Scratch 
] 
10A.  The highest mountain in the Americas, Aconcagua, is located in what South American country? 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
 [or  
Argentine Republic 
] 
10B.  What English verb is translated as \"être\" (AH-tur) in French and \"estar\" (es-TAR) or \"ser\" (SAIR) in 
Spanish? 
ANSWER: to  
be 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Districts 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A variable amount for this quantity can be achieved by using a rheostat. Unknown values for this 
quantity can be measured with a Wheatstone bridge. This quantity is inversely proportional to 
cross-sectional area and directly proportional to length. AC circuits use an analog of this concept called 
impedance. Deriving it from Ohm's law yields the relation \"voltage over current.\" For 10 points, name this 
quantity defined as the amount of opposition to electric current, measured in ohms. 
ANSWER:  
resistance 
140-12-73-05117 
2. This author wrote a story in which the title brothers O.T. and E.T. are contrasted with the children of a 
woman goared by a bull, Mrs. May. In addition to “Greenleaf,” she wrote about the abandonment of the 
deaf-mute daughter of Lucynell Crater at a truck stop by Tom Shiftlet. This author of “The Life You Save 
May Be Your Own” wrote a work in which the cat Pitty Sing travels with a family who are murdered by 
The Misfit. For 10 points, name this author of “A Good Man Is Hard to Find.” 
ANSWER: Flannery  
O'Connor 
 [or Mary Flannery  
O’Connor 
] 
030-12-73-05118 
3. A Joan Miro painting shows one of these animals attempting to communicate with the moon. A 
frame-by-frame view of one of these animals with a woman is shown in Giacomo Balla’s painting of their 
\"Dynamism.\" One of them is on the bed in Titian's  
Venus of Urbino, 
 and one of these animals sits at the 
feet of the bride in Jan van Eyck’s  
Arnolfini Wedding. 
 For 10 points name these animals who, in a series by 
C. M. Coolidge, play poker. 
ANSWER:  
dog 
s [or equivalents such as  
hound 
s or  
canine 
s] 
030-12-73-05119 
4. One example of this curve is the polar equation \"r equals one over quantity one plus cosine theta.\" This 
curve is defined as the locus of points equidistant from a focus and a directrix. Neglecting air resistance, 
this curve can be used to model projectile motion. In rectangular coordinates, the equations of these curves 
are quadratic in either x or y, but not both. It possesses a vertex and an axis of symmetry. For 10 points, 
name this curve, exemplified by the equation \"y equals x-squared.\" 
ANSWER:  
parabola 
131-12-73-05120 
5. This country’s residents celebrate an annual festival whose events include horse racing, archery, and 
wrestling, known as \"naadam.\" With its northern neighbor, this country contains Uvs Lake. This country is 
subject to harsh winter storms known as \"zuds.\" The least densely populated country in the world, a large 
portion of it is located within the Gobi desert. For 10 points, name this landlocked country found between 
Russia and China. 
ANSWER:  
Mongolia 
140-12-73-05121 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  6 of 9 
6. For a wavefunction, the square of the \"probability\" form of this quantity is the probability of observing a 
given quantum state. The RMS value for a sinusoidal function equals this value over the square root of two. 
It's not frequency, but radio waves can be transmitted by modulating this quantity. For the wave equation, 
this quantity multiplies the outside of the trigonometric function. This quantity equals the distance between 
crest and trough over two. For 10 points, name this quantity, the \"height\" of a wave. 
ANSWER:  
amplitude 
190-12-73-05122 
7. In one story by this man, a little boy asks, “What did one wall say to the other?” In that story, an 
American soldier opens a box with a broken wristwatch in it. In addition to writing “For Esme - With Love 
and Squalor,” this author described Seymour Glass’s suicide in “A Perfect Day for Bannanafish.” In 
another work by this man, the word “phony” is used repeatedly by Phoebe’s brother, Holden Caulfield. For 
10 points, name this author of  
The Catcher in the Rye. 
ANSWER: J. D.  
Salinger 
 [or Jerome David  
Salinger 
] 
149-12-73-05123 
8. This protein’s components are encoded by a group of duplicated genes under sway of a Locus Control 
Region. This protein switches between taut and relaxed forms in a type of cooperativity. A glutamic acid to 
valine mutation in this protein causes the cells carrying it to take on a curved shape. This protein contains a 
porphyrin (POR-fuh-rin) ring with a central iron atom. For 10 points, name this protein, found in red blood 
cells, that carries oxygen. 
ANSWER:  
hemoglobin 
 [or  
Hb 
] 
048-12-73-05124 
9. Forces supporting this ruler were victorious in the Battle of Villalar during the Revolt of the Comuneros. 
As a child, this man was tutored by the future Pope Adrian VI and raised by his aunt Margaret of Austria. 
This ruler succeeded his mother Joanna the Mad on one throne, and he was the last ruler crowned by the 
Pope on another throne. For 10 points, name this Hapsburg ruler who was both King of Spain and Holy 
Roman Emperor, and who presided over the Diet of Worms attended by Martin Luther. 
ANSWER:  
Charles V 
 of the Holy Roman Empire [or  
Charles I 
 of Spain; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
153-12-73-05125 
10. This singer proposed establishing a national holiday for Elvis Presley's death in his song \"If the South 
Woulda Won.\" He finished an unreleased song by his father, \"There's a Tear in My Beer.\" He compared 
Barack Obama to Hitler on  
Fox and Friends, 
 after which his song \"All My Rowdy Friends Are Coming 
Over Tonight\" was dropped as the theme song to  
Monday Night Football. 
 For 10 points, name this 
musician, the son of the 1950s country singer who recorded “Your Cheatin’ Heart.” 
ANSWER: Hank  
Williams, Jr. 
 [or  
Randall 
 Hank  
Williams 
; or  
Bocephus 
; prompt on  
Williams 
] 
019-12-73-05126 
11. This politician introduced his country's first minimum-wage policy while serving as president of the 
Board of Trade. Herbert Asquith appointed this politician to the position of First Lord of the Admiralty, 
from which he resigned after the Gallipoli Campaign. This man used the phrase \"this was their finest hour\" 
in one of his speeches, and this predecessor to Clement Atlee attended the Tehran and Yalta Conferences 
with Roosevelt and Stalin. For 10 points, name this prime minister of Britain during World War II. 
ANSWER: Winston Leonard Spencer  
Churchill 
189-12-73-05127 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  7 of 9 
12. A composition of Otto Skadelig is used to torture a character in this work. Mr. Deltoid spits in the face 
of this novel’s main character after that character kills the wife of the author Alexander. This novel begins 
with the main character meeting with Dim, Pete, and Georgie at the Korova Milkbar, and that protagonist 
undergoes Brodsky’s Ludovico Technique. For 10 points, name this novel narrated in the fictional 
language of Nadsat by Alex, a work of Anthony Burgess. 
ANSWER:  
A  Clockwork Orange 
030-12-73-05128 
13. This person was implicated in a scandal in which Ralph Blewitt and Bruce Wilson embezzled money 
raised from construction companies. After Speaker of the House Peter Slipper resigned, this person called 
out opposition leader Tony Abbott for misogyny. This person won a leadership contest in the Labour Party, 
replacing Kevin Rudd in 2010. For 10 points, name this current prime minister of Australia, the first 
woman to hold that position. 
ANSWER: Julia Eileen  
Gillard 
020-12-73-05129 
14. Fermat primes are involved in the constructibility of one type of these figures with a compass and 
straight edge. These figures are convex if they have no reflex angle. The formula \"n minus two times 180 
all divided by n\" can be used to calculate the interior angle of one type. The faces of Platonic solids consist 
of \"regular\" ones of these figures, which means that all their angles and sides are equal. For 10 points, 
identify these two-dimensional closed shapes made of straight lines. 
ANSWER:  
polygon 
 [or  
n-gon 
] 
066-12-73-05130 
15. In a play by Sophocles, this man and Neoptolemus (nee-op-TALL-eh-mis) try to convince Philoctetes 
to join them at Troy. Palamedes (pal-uh-MEE-deez) proved this man was not mad by placing his son in 
front of an oncoming plow. He spent seven years imprisoned by Calypso, and angered Poseidon by 
blinding the cyclops Polyphemus. He and his son Telemachus (teh-LEM-uh-kus) defeat the suitors of his 
wife Penelope. For 10 points, name this king of Ithaca whose journey home is recounted in a Homeric epic. 
ANSWER:  
Odysseus 
 [or  
Ulysses 
] 
121-12-73-05131 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Districts 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This element's nitrate, once called \"lunar caustic,\" can be used to test for the presence of halide ions 
because it forms cream-colored halide precipitates. The light-sensitive material used in daguerrotypes was 
this element's iodide, which today is used to seed clouds. By far, its most common oxidation state is plus-1, 
and it is the second \"noble metal.\" It has the greatest thermal and electrical conductivity of any element. For 
10 points, name this element with atomic number 47 and symbol Ag. 
ANSWER:  
silver 
 [or  
Ag 
 until it is read] 
190-12-73-05132 
2. Garry Willis compared this speech to Pericles' Funeral Oration in a book on it. The version usually read 
today comes from the Bliss copy. Only ten sentences long, this speech followed a longer oration by Edward 
Everett. This speech claims \"the world will little note, nor long remember what we say here\" and it resolves 
\"government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.\" For 10 points, 
name this dedicatory speech that begins \"Four score and seven years ago...\" 
ANSWER:  
Gettysburg Address 
121-12-73-05133 
3. In one novel, a member of this profession obtains a position for his charge as a secretary to the Marquis 
de la Mole. That member of this profession, Pirard, and another member of this profession, Chélan, are 
mentors to Julien Sorel in Stendhal’s novel  
The Red and the Black. 
 Another member of this profession 
stabs Phoebus out of his jealousy for Esmerelda. For 10 points, name this profession of Claude Frollo, who 
is employed at the title location of  
The Hunchback of Notre-Dame. 
ANSWER:  
priest 
s [or reasonable equivalents, such as  
clergymen pastor 
,  s, or  
reverend 
s] 
030-12-73-05134 
4. This technique can be used to measure the average molecular weight of fatty acid chains by finding its 
saponification value. The graph illustrating this process has its steepest slope at the equivalence point, 
which shows where the amount of added substance is enough to neutralize the analyte. That point is often 
found by a change in a pH indicator. It usually uses a flask with the analyte and a calibrated burette with 
the standard solution. For 10 points, name this technique for determining a substance's concentration. 
ANSWER:  
titration 
121-12-73-05135 
5. One character in this work, with a mulberry birthmark, claims to have seen a \"snake thing,\" but he 
disappears after a fire goes out of control. In this novel, the twins Samneric are frightened \"the beast\" that is 
later discovered by Simon. A conch shell allows people to speak in this work, in which the choir boys 
become hunters under Jack. For 10 points, name this work about Piggy and Ralph, boys stranded on an 
island after a plane crash, written by William Golding. 
ANSWER:  
Lord of the Flies 
023-12-73-05136 
This is a calculation question. If the surface area of a perfect cube is 150 square inches, what is the cube's 
volume? 
ANSWER:  
125 
 cubic inches 
What French impressionist painted the portrait  
Luncheon of the Boating Party 
? 
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste  
Renoir 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Districts     5     Page  9 of 9 
