VHSL Districts 2012 
Round 6 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The reaction that breaks down this compound is catalyzed by certain free radicals like elemental 
chlorine. Measurements for this entity can range from one hundred to three hundred Dobson units. 
Compounds known as chlorofluorocarbons (clor-oh-FLOR-oh-car-bons), or CFC's, were banned because of 
their role in breaking down this compound. This molecule is an allotrope consisting of three oxygen atoms. 
For 10 points, name this pale blue gas that absorbs solar ultraviolet radiation by forming a namesake layer 
in the atmosphere. 
ANSWER:  
ozone 
 [accept  
O 
3 
 before oxygen is mentioned] 
130-12-54-06101 
2. This author's works in the dream-vision genre include  
The Parliament of Fowls, 
 and he wrote  
The 
Legend of Good Women 
 to compensate for his depiction of women in  
Troilus and Criseyde 
 (Cress-ida). In 
another work of his, he described the competition for the love of Emily between Palamon and Arcite 
(AR-sight). That work by this man starts with a \"General Prologue\" introducing such characters as the 
Reeve, the Prioress, and the Wife of Bath. For 10 points, name this author of the  
Canterbury Tales 
. 
ANSWER: Geoffrey  
Chaucer 
142-12-54-06102 
3. One mountain range in the north of this country is the Dolomite range. Its largest lake lies in the extreme 
north and is called Lake Garda. To the south of this country lies the Ionian Sea, which includes the Gulf of 
Taranto. The longest river in this country is the Po, and the Tiber River flows past its capital. The Apennine 
Mountains are known as the “backbone” of this country, which controls an island home to Mt. Etna and the 
city of Palermo. For 10 points, name this boot-like country which surrounds the mini-states of San Marino 
and the Vatican. 
ANSWER:  
Italy 
 [or  
Italian Republic 
; or  
Repubblica Italiana 
] 
141-12-54-06103 
4. In one play by this author, Mrs. Arbuthnot refuses to allow her illegitimate son Gerald to become the 
secretary of Lord Illingworth. This author of  
A Woman of No Importance 
 also wrote a play in which Mrs. 
Erlynne takes the blame for the presence of the title object in Lord Darlington’s rooms. He also created 
Lady Bracknell, who questions the parentage of Jack Worthing. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of 
Lady Windermere’s Fan 
 and  
The Importance of Being Earnest. 
ANSWER: Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wills  
Wilde 
014-12-54-06104 
5. While at a book signing, this man was stabbed by Izola Curry. This man responded to a statement by 
eight clergymen titled \"A Call for Unity\" with his \"Letter from Birmingham Jail.\" Along with Ralph 
Abernathy and others, this man founded the SCLC and organized the March on Washington. This man 
gave the \"I've Been to the Mountaintop\" speech before he was assassinated at the Lorraine Motel by James 
Earl Ray. For 10 points, name this civil rights activist who gave the \"I Have a Dream\" speech. 
ANSWER: Martin Luther  
King 
, Jr. 
126-12-54-06105 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  1 of 10 
6. Shortly after an American did so, this man proved that Hilbert’s \"Decision Problem\" was unsolvable. 
With that same American, he hypothesized that every “effectively calculable” function was also 
computable, a “thesis” named for him and Alonzo Church. This man also names a device that consists of a 
finite state machine that runs along an infinite tape, reading, erasing, and writing symbols on the tape. For 
10 points, name this British computer scientist whose namesake “machine” is a model of computing. 
ANSWER: Alan  
Turing 
080-12-54-06106 
7. In this novel, the protagonist's mother refuses to see her if she declines a marriage proposal and her 
father refuses to see her if she accepts. That proposal comes from the clergyman Mr. Collins, who 
eventually marries Charlotte Lucas. Disaster strikes the main family of this novel when Lydia elopes with a 
soldier, Mr. Wickham, which is eventually resolved by Mr. Darcy, who himself wants to obtain the hand of 
the main character, Elizabeth. For 10 points, name this novel about the Bennet family, by Jane Austen. 
ANSWER:  
Pride and Prejudice 
040-12-54-06107 
8. This colony's third chartering resulted in it gaining the Bermuda Islands. One institution in this colony 
was established shortly after the arrival of George Yeardley. In 1619, this colony became the first to have 
black slaves brought to it. This colony was governed during a rebellion by William Berkeley. One 
settlement in this colony went through a \"starving time.\" For 10 points, name this colony that was the 
location of Bacon's Rebellion, the House of Burgesses, and Jamestown. 
ANSWER:  
Virginia 
 Colony [or Dominion and Colony of  
Virginia 
; or Commonwealth of  
Virginia 
] 
023-12-54-06108 
9. One of his novels includes Ogier (oh-ZHER) P., a \"self-taught man,\" and focuses on a man doing 
research on Marquis de Rollebon. He wrote about a \"sweetish sickness\" encountered by Antoine Roquentin 
(roe-kin-TAWN) in that novel. This author included a lesbian postal clerk and a Valet in his play about 
Estelle, Ines, and Garcin (gar-SAWN). This author of  
Nausea 
 wrote that \"hell is other people\" in one play. 
For 10 points, name this French existentialist author of  
No Exit. 
ANSWER: Jean-Paul  
Sartre 
020-12-54-06109 
10. This Chief Justice ruled in favor of imprisoning a newspaper editor in Wisconsin in  
Ableman v. Booth 
. 
The contract clause of the Constitution was significantly affected by this man's decision to not infer rights 
from a document in  
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge 
. This Chief Justice decided a case involving the 
late John Emerson's slave, who sued for freedom based on time spent in Minnesota and Illinois. For 10 
points, name this Chief Justice who made the Dred Scott decision. 
ANSWER: Roger Brooke  
Taney 
130-12-54-06110 
11. This composer's name was used as a nationalistic acronym during the unification of his country, and 
one myth tells of nationalistic audiences in Milan demanding an encore of \"Va, pensiero 
(pen-see-AY-roh).\" This composer of  
Nabucco 
 (na-BOO-ko) wrote an aria in which the claim that \"woman 
is fickle\" is made by the Duke of Mantua in the opera  
Rigoletto 
 (rig-oh-LET-oh). Radames (ra-DAH-mays) 
is buried with a princess who sings \"Ritorna vincitor (ri-\"TORN\"-ah vin-chi-TOHR)\" and \"O patria mia\" in 
an opera by this man. For 10 points, name this Italian composer of  
Aida 
. 
ANSWER: Giuseppe  
Verdi 
002-12-54-06111 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  2 of 10 
12. After stealing a laptop from a fellow student, this football player transferred to Blinn College during his 
sophomore year at Florida. During the 2010 regular season, this quarterback overcame a twenty-four to 
zero deficit at halftime to lead a comeback win against Alabama. He defeated the Oregon Ducks to win the 
2011 BCS National Championship Game for Auburn. For 10 points, name this quarterback, who was 
drafted number one overall in the 2011 NFL Draft by the Carolina Panthers. 
ANSWER: Cameron Jerrell  
Newton 
130-12-54-06112 
13. During this war, the Treaty of Lübeck resulted in the withdrawal of Danish forces. Battles in this war 
were fought at Breitenfeld (BRIGHT-in-feld) and Lützen (LOOT-zen), where commanders included men 
such as Tilly, Albrecht von Wallenstein (VALL-en-stine), and Gustavus Adolphus. This war started when 
Bohemian noblemen rebelled against the rule of Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II and committed the 
Denefestration of Prague. For 10 points, the Peace of Westphalia of 1648 ended what early seventeenth 
century European war? 
ANSWER:  
Thirty Years' War 
140-12-54-06113 
14. In Operation Vijay, India annexed what had been this country's colony of Goa. This country's Carnation 
Revolution overthrew Marcelo Caetano, who had succeeded its longtime dictator Antonio Salazar. A 
revolution in 1910 deposed this country's last monarch of the House of Braganza. When Napoleon invaded 
this country, the Braganzas fled to one of its colonies and relocated the capital of the empire to Rio de 
Janeiro. For 10 points, name this European country that once controlled Brazil. 
ANSWER:  
Portugal 
 [or  
Portuguese Republic 
; or  
Republica Portuguesa 
] 
121-12-54-06114 
15. This country was governed by the Ninth of May Constitution from 1948 to 1960. Leaders of this 
country include Gustav Husak and Antonin Novotny (no-VOT-nee), whose fall from power led to a Soviet 
invasion of this country. Vaclav Havel governed this country before it was dissolved in the 1993 Velvet 
Divorce. Alexander Dubcek (DOOB-check) was removed from power in this country in 1969 after a brief 
period of reforms. For 10 points, name this former central European country where the Prague Spring 
occurred. 
ANSWER:  
Czechoslovakia 
 [do not accept \"Czech Republic\" or \"Slovakia\" at any point] 
131-12-54-06115 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Districts 2012 
Round 6 
Directed Round 
1A.  Deuterium (doo-TEAR-eeh-um) and tritium (TRIH-tee-um), which have one and two neutrons 
respectively, are isotopes of what lightest element? 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen 
 [prompt on  ] 
H 
1B.  What term describes a sequence in which each term is multiplied by the same number, or common 
ratio, to produce the subsequent term? 
ANSWER:  
geometric 
 sequence 
2A.  What British author wrote about Sherlock Holmes in novels such as  
The Hound of the Baskervilles 
 and 
The Sign of Four 
? 
ANSWER: Arthur Conan  
Doyle 
2B.  What artist painted two men standing near shelves with a globe and lute with the image of a distorted 
skull underneath them in  
The Ambassadors? 
ANSWER: Hans  
Holbein 
 the Younger 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the focal length of an ellipse with equation x squared 
over 25 plus y squared over 16 equals one? 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the greatest common factor of any two primes? 
ANSWER:  
1 
4A.  What set of four acts were passed by the British in response to the Boston Tea Party as a punishment 
on the American colonies? 
ANSWER:  
Intolerable 
 Acts [or  
Coercive 
 Acts] 
4B.  Identify the weather phenomenon whose damage is measured on the Enhanced Fujita Scale. 
ANSWER:  
tornado 
es 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the variance of the numbers {3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9}? 
ANSWER:  
4 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Express your answer in terms of pi. What is the volume of a 
regular cone with radius 3 and height 4? 
ANSWER:  
12 pi 
6A.  David Hume championed what school of epistemological thought, which claims that knowledge can 
come only from sensory evidence? 
ANSWER:  
empiricism 
6B.  What French sociologist popularized the term \"anomie\" in his study,  
Suicide 
? 
ANSWER: Emile  
Durkheim 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. How many arrangements can be made if one selects four 
apples from a bin of fifteen apples and order does not matter? 
ANSWER:  
1365 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the cosine of the arctangent of -1? 
ANSWER:  
square root of 2 over 2 
 [or  
one over the square root of 2 
; or  
.707 
] 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  4 of 10 
8A.  What Al Pacino character becomes more involved in \"the family business\" after his mob boss father 
Vito's shooting in  
The Godfather 
? 
ANSWER: Don  
Michael 
 Corleone [prompt on  
Corleone 
] 
8B.  What European city contains a spiraling building called the Gherkin, a Ferris wheel called its 
namesake \"Eye,\" and the ad-heavy Piccadilly Circus? 
ANSWER:  
London 
, England 
9A.  What is the name used by Japanese speakers for Chinese characters which are memorized to write 
words independently of  
hiragana 
 or  
katakana 
 letters? 
ANSWER:  
kanji 
 [or  
hanzi 
] 
9B.  Name the successor to Dingiswayo (din-gee-SWY-oh) as leader of the Zulu who united many of the 
Nguni (en-GOO-nee) people. 
ANSWER:  
Shaka 
 Zulu [or  
Shaka 
 kaSenzangakhona] 
10A.  What French composer wrote  
Harold in Italy 
 for Niccolo Paganini and composed  
Symphonie 
Fantastique 
 (\"Symphony\" fan-ta-STEEK)? 
ANSWER: Hector  
Berlioz 
10B.  What Polish author wrote about his experience in Auschwitz in the book  
Night 
? 
ANSWER: Eliezer  
Wiesel 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Districts 2012 
Round 6 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This author fictionalized himself as a failed poet \"whose true Penelope was Flaubert.\" This author of 
\"Hugh Selwyn Mauberley\" wrote a poem reading, \"The apparitions of these faces in the crowd; petals on a 
wet, black bough.\" That poem, \"In a Station of the Metro,\" demonstrated his ideal of \"Imagism.\" His 
translations of Chinese poems prepared him for his most famous work, part of which was written in Pisa. 
For 10 points, name this American expatriate and friend of T. S. Eliot who wrote  
The Cantos. 
ANSWER: Ezra Loomis  
Pound 
020-12-54-06117 
2. Characters in this work include Miss Henderson, who runs a prostitution ring, and the hotel owner 
Tommy Hind. In this novel, the protagonist’s son Antanas drowns in a mud puddle, and his wife is 
propositioned by Phil Connor. Early in this novel, the protagonist racks up a one hundred dollar debt at a 
bar in Packingtown for his wedding to Ona. For 10 points, name this novel about Lithuanian immigrant 
Jurgis Rudkus’s experiences in the Chicago meatpacking industry, a work of Upton Sinclair. 
ANSWER:  
The  Jungle 
131-12-54-06118 
3. This deity’s daughter, Kebechet, has the form of an ostrich and provides water to her father. Im-yut is 
one of this god’s epithets. This god’s cult was centered at Cynopolis (sigh-NAW-pul-iss). In one of his 
roles, this god fed hearts to Ammit if they were heavier than the feather of Ma’at. Ra sent Thoth and this 
god to mummify Osiris after Set killed him. For 10 points, name this jackal-headed Egyptian god of 
embalming. 
ANSWER:  
Anubis 
 [or  
Inpu 
 or  
Ienpw 
 or  
Anup 
] 
131-12-54-06119 
4. This character is described as \"a son of God -- a phrase which, if it means anything, means just that.\" 
Later in that novel, a friend tells this character that he's \"worth the whole damn bunch put together.\" This 
character's funeral is attended by Owl Eyes after he is shot by Wilson in his pool. This character lives in a 
mansion in West Egg, and before reviving his relationship with Daisy Buchanan, he befriends his neighbor 
Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name this title character of an F. Scott Fitzgerald novel. 
ANSWER: Jay  
Gatsby 
 [or  
Jay 
 Gatsby; or The Great  
Gatsby 
] 
126-12-54-06120 
5. One class of these objects are described by the Tully-Fisher relation or the Faber-Jackson relation. Edwin 
Hubble developed a classification system for these objects, while the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds 
are irregular types of these. Some of these objects have a bulge in their center that forms around a 
supermassive black hole. They are classified based on their shape into elliptical or spiral types. For 10 
points, name these stellar objects exemplified by the Andromeda and Milky Way. 
ANSWER:  
galaxies 
 [accept spiral  
galaxies 
 before Hubble is mentioned] 
140-12-54-06121 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  6 of 10 
6. This location is intersected by the Garlock Fault. One short-lived body of water in this location was Lake 
Badwater, which is now the Badwater Basin. Located between the Sylvania and Owlshead mountains, this 
natural feature contains an oasis called Furnace Creek, where the highest recorded temperature in the 
Western Hemisphere was recorded. For 10 points, name this California location, the lowest point in the 
United States. 
ANSWER:  
Death Valley 
141-12-54-06122 
7. In November 2011, this man created the People's Guard to deal with his country's rising crime rate. With 
Sebastián Piñera, he is co-chair of the newly formed Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
which this man stated will replace the OAS. In December 2011, he speculated the United States was 
responsible for the cancer he and other leaders suffer from. In 2006, this man claimed he could \"still smell 
the sulfur\" after his speech followed George W. Bush's at the United Nations. For 10 points, name this 
current president of Venezuela. 
ANSWER: Hugo  
Chávez 
121-12-54-06123 
8. This author's father James was an actor who became famous for playing the title role in  
The Count of 
Monte Cristo. 
 This playwright experimented with characters wearing masks onstage in  
The Great God 
Brown 
 and characters voicing their thoughts to the audience in  
Strange Interlude 
. He wrote a trilogy 
updating the Oresteia to the Civil War, as well as an autobiographical play about the Tyrone family. For 10 
points, name this American playwright of  
Mourning Becomes Electra 
 and  
Long Day's Journey Into Night 
. 
ANSWER: Eugene Gladstone  
O'Neill 
004-12-54-06124 
9. Nikola Tesla produced this phenomenon experimentally in the form of bremsstrahlung 
(BREM-struh-lung). This phenomenon was discovered using a Crookes tube and a screen coated with 
barium platinocyanide (plah-tih-noh-SIE-yih-nide). Max von Laue won a Nobel Prize for studying the 
diffraction of this phenomenon. It was first systematically studied by Wilhelm Roentgen (RUNT-gen), 
though Ivan Pulyui (pool-YOO-ee) was one of the first to apply it to medicine. For 10 points, name this 
high-energy electromagnetic radiation used to take images of teeth and bones. 
ANSWER:  
X-ray 
s [prompt on  
electromagnetic radiation 
 or  
radiation 
 before mention; prompt on  
Roentgen radiation 
 before Roentgen is mentioned] 
132-12-54-06125 
10. Willard Van Dyke and other artists in this medium formed Group f/64 (eff stop sixty-four). One artist in 
this medium depicted horses in a city in  
The Terminal 
 and passengers on a ship in  
The Steerage. 
 Another 
artist in this medium is known for works showing a  
Moonrise 
 over Hernandez, New Mexico, sites in 
Yosemite National Park, and other scenes of the American West. For 10 points, name this visual medium in 
which Alfred Stieglitz (STEE-glitz) and Ansel Adams used equipment like tripods and flashbulbs. 
ANSWER:  
photography 
 [or  
photograph 
s; or other word forms] 
132-12-54-06126 
11. Hans Bethe discovered a cycle by which this process occurs and which is named for the three elements 
which act as catalysts. Pons and Fleischmann (FLYSH-min) erroneously claimed in 1989 that they could 
achieve this process at room temperature. This process, which takes place via the CNO (see en oh) cycle in 
massive stars, yields a product which is subsequently used in the triple alpha process. The sun 
accomplishes this via the proton-proton chain. For 10 points, name this energy-rich process which produces 
helium from the lightest element. 
ANSWER: hydrogen  
fusion 
 [or nuclear  
fusion 
; or cold  
fusion 
 before \"CNO\" is read] 
014-12-54-06127 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  7 of 10 
12. This color describes a tongue in the title of a Mastodon song. In a song titled after this color, Eddie 
Vedder sings, \"Of what was everything?\" Mos Def and Talib Kweli comprise a hip hop duo named for this 
type of star. Metallica's self-titled album is referred to by this color. \"Strange Times\" is by a blues rock duo 
with this color in their name, and \"Iron Man\" is also by a band with this color in their name. For 10 points, 
name this color that AC/DC is \"back in.\" 
ANSWER:  
black 
127-12-54-06128 
13. Brunner’s glands are found within one part of this organ. Cholecystokinin (koh-leh-sis-toh-KIE-nin) is 
a hormone that allows enzymes from the pancreas to enter this organ, in which tapeworms attach to a 
human host. Nutrients are absorbed into the bloodstream here at small protrusions called villi. It is divided 
into the duodenum (doo-AH-deh-num), jejunum (JOO-jeh-num), and ileum (EE-lee-um). For 10 points, 
name this organ of the digestive system, which lies between the stomach and the large intestine. 
ANSWER:  
small intestine 
 [prompt on  
intestine 
] 
140-12-54-06129 
14. A university in this state recently partnered with the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology to 
announce plans for a new science college in its largest city. In December 2011, a politician in this state, 
Carl Kruger, pled guilty to bribery and corruption charges. This state legalized same-sex marriage in June 
2011. In 2010, Carl Paladino lost the election for its governorship to Andrew Cuomo. For 10 points, name 
this state, whose largest city is governed by Mayor Michael Bloomberg. 
ANSWER:  
New York 
132-12-54-06130 
15. The change in this quantity is related to one minus the cosine of the angle of incidence by the equation 
describing Compton scattering. According to the Rydberg (RIDE-berg) formula, the inverse of this quantity 
is equal to the difference in the squares of the reciprocals (RE-sip-ro-culls) of the energy levels. This 
quantity is equal to Planck’s (Planks) constant over momentum in the de Broglie (De broly) equation. This 
quantity is equal to velocity over frequency. For 10 points, name this quantity that is equal to the distance 
between a wave’s crests and often represented by the letter lambda. 
ANSWER:  
wavelength 
 [or  
lambda 
 before mention] 
149-12-54-06131 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Districts 2012 
Round 6 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Members of the phylum Ctenophora (teh-noh-FOR-uh) were once classified under this phylum. One 
group of members in this phylum, siphonophores (sih-FAH-noh-fores), are actually colonies of specialized 
organisms. Species in this phylum contain a middle section known as the mesoglea (meh-soh-GLEE-uh), 
while many contain nematocysts (neh-MAH-toh-sists), which are responsible for stings. They undergo 
polyp and medusa life stages. For 10 points, name this phylum that includes sea anemones, coral, and 
jellyfish. 
ANSWER:  
Cnidaria 
 (nih-DARE-ee-uh) 
140-12-54-06132 
2. This author wrote a short story in which Amasa Delano discovers that the black servant Babo is smarter 
than he seems when Delano boards the title captain’s ship. One character created by this author is the 
fortune-telling Parsee Fedallah, who is secretly brought aboard a ship that has a crew including Tashtego 
(tash-TEA-go), Flask, and Starbuck. In that novel by this author of  
Benito Cereno  
 (ser-EE-no), Ishmael 
participates in Captain Ahab's hunt for the white whale. For 10 points, name this American who wrote  
Moby-Dick. 
ANSWER: Herman  
Melville 
023-12-54-06133 
3. The spectral radiance of these objects is given by Lambert's cosine law. A star's surface temperature is 
found by using its peak wavelength and treating it as one of these objects. One early attempt to model these 
objects led to the “ultraviolet catastrophe” and was the Rayleigh-Jeans law. The peak wavelength of these 
objects is equal to the displacement constant over its temperature by Wien's (WEINZ) law. The power 
radiated by these objects is given by Planck’s law. For 10 points, name these objects that are perfect 
absorbers. 
ANSWER:  
blackbody 
149-12-54-06134 
4. One genetic disorder affecting this organ causes copper to accumulate in tissues and is known as 
Wilson's disease. Most gluconeogenesis (gloo-kon-nee-oh-GEH-neh-sis) occurs in this organ which is also 
the site of bile production. Most of this organ's blood supply is carried by the hepatic portal vein. The bare 
area of this organ is connected to the diaphragm by areolar (ah-ree-OH-lar) tissue, and alcoholism can lead 
to cirrhosis (sih-ROH-sis) of this organ. For 10 points, identify this organ which detoxifies the blood. 
ANSWER: the  
liver 
126-12-54-06135 
5. This city was constructed by the Jebusites (JEE-bu-sites), who inhabited it before it was captured by Joab 
(JOE-ab). A prophet was borne to this city by the horse Buraq during the  
Miraj, 
 or Night Journey, where he 
saw the Dome of the Rock in this city. This city, the third-holiest in Islam, was also the site of a sacred 
sanctuary called the Holy of Holies, where the Ark of the Covenant rested in the Temple of Solomon. For 
10 points, name this city which served as the capital of the Kingdom of Israel. 
ANSWER:  
Jerusalem 
104-12-54-06136 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  9 of 10 
This is a calculation question. If the base of a cylinder and a sphere have the same radius of 4, how high 
would the cylinder have to be for the volumes to be equal? 
ANSWER:  
16/3 
 [or  
5.33 
] 
104-12-54-06137 
What Norse god was the guardian of the Rainbow bridge Bifrost? 
ANSWER:  
Heimdall 
r 
104-12-54-06137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 6     Page  10 of 10 
