NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 TOSSUPS  
1. This process cannot be consistently used on all polynomials in the classical position and  
momenta on the symplectic manifold R two n according to the \"no-go\" theorem of Groenewold,  
which was later expanded by van Hove. In the \"first\" type of this process, classical particles are  
assigned wave amplitudes. This process translates states that are points in a phase space into  
vectors on a Hilbert space and observables that are complex-valued functions on the phase space  
to bounded linear operators, such as is done by the Weyl transform. If a single magnetic  
monopole exists, then electric charge must have this property according to the Dirac condition  
named for it. For 10 points, name this process by which a quantum field theory is constructed  
from a classical field theory.  
ANSWER:  quantization   
2. Ford proved a result showing that for each k, the equation this function of x equals m has  
exactly k solutions. Jordan extended this function to k-tuples. This function appears in the  
denominator of the definition of the Silverman Constant. The Dirichlet convolution of one with  
this function returns the identity function. This function can be used to find the order of the ring  
Z over n Z, and a polygon is constructable if this function of the number of sides is equal to a  
power of two. For a prime input, this function returns one minus the input. This function appears  
in the exponent of its namesake's extension to Fermat's little theorem. For 10 points, name this  
function that returns the number of integers less than the input that are relatively prime to it.  
ANSWER: Euler  totient  function [or Euler  phi  function]  
3. Theories for the emergence of these systems include the ding-dong theory and the pooh-pooh  
theory. August Schleicher proposed organizing these systems into the Stammbaum model. One  
kind of transfer between two of these systems is called a calque. The largest constructed one of  
these systems was designed by L.L. Zamenhof. Alternating between two of these systems is a  
form of code-switching, and if one of these systems is not related to any other system, it is  
referred to as an \"isolate.\" Stephen Pinker wrote on the \"instinct\" to develop these systems. For  
10 points, identify these systems which can be used for communication through talking, such as  
English.  
ANSWER: spoken  language s  
4. This story relates how a man would move as reliably as a sundial while smoking his pipe and  
keeping in the shade of a tree. The epigraph of this story is taken from William Cartwright’s  The  
Ordinary  and begins “By Woden, God of Saxons.” A character in this story is told that a woman  
died yelling at a peddler shortly after being asked “on which side he voted” by an orator in the  
Union Hotel. This story concludes by explaining that summer thunderstorms are caused by a  
group of ghosts playing ninepins in the mountains. For 10 points, name this story presented as a  
“Writing of Diedrich Knickerbocker” and set in the Catskills Mountains, in which the title  
character sleeps through the American Revolution.  
ANSWER: “ Rip Van Winkle ” 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 TOSSUPS  
5. Pius VII greenlighted Gaspare del Bufalo's establishment of an order of missionaries named  
for this thing. Denizens of Bruges dress up in medieval garb to celebrate a relic of this entity,  
which was brought there during the Second Crusade. This thing is invoked twenty-four times,  
each time with the exhortation \"save us!,\" in a \"most precious\" litany. This is the second of two  
items mentioned in John 6:53-55 in connection with eternal life. In a literal sense, this substance  
was produced alongside the Holy Prepuce, and it resulted from the Five Holy Wounds. For 10  
points, name this substance, which, according to the doctrine of transubstantiation, is what the  
wine in the Eucharist really becomes.  
ANSWER:  blood of Christ  [or  Jesus's blood ; or  Holy Blood ; prompt on  blood ; prompt on  
wine  until it is read]  
6. An author with this surname wrote about such topics as the Montreal Massacre in 1997's  Life  
and Death.  Another author with this surname constructed the \"right answer thesis,\" in which he  
said that an ideal figure, such as \"Judge Hercules,\" would always be able to come up with an  
indisputably correct answer in legal problems. The first author with this surname was a frequent  
collaborator with Catharine MacKinnon, who wrote the book  Intercourse,  which critics claimed  
could be summarized by the sentence \"All sex is rape.\" This is the surname of the author of the  
book  Law's Empire  and a woman who claimed pornography was linked to violence against  
women. For 10 points, give this surname of radical feminist Andrea and constitutional law  
scholar Ronald.  
ANSWER:  Dworkin   
7. Some trace the origin of this style to the album  Crosscurrents  by Lennie Tristano. \"La  
Nevada\" begins a 1960 album by the Gil Evans Orchestra titled for their departure from this  
style. This style was preferred by the composer of the album  It Could Happen to You  and  
namesake of \"Chetty's Song,\" Chet Baker. It's not bossa nova, but Gerry Mulligan's relocation to  
California and the presence of Stan Getz helped establish the West Coast's reputation as home to  
this style's namesake \"school.\" This style was showcased on a classical-music-inspired 1957  
compilation album recorded by the nonet of Miles Davis. For 10 points, name this relaxed style  
of jazz music whose  Birth  was supposedly represented by that Davis album.  
ANSWER:  cool  jazz [or  West Coast  jazz until \"California\" is read; prompt on  West Coast  jazz  
after \"California\" is read until \"West Coast\" is read]  
8. A poem titled for this place contains the lines “I hail the superhuman, I call it death-in-life and  
life-in-death,” and describes “flames that no faggot feeds, nor steel has lit.” That poem also  
mentions the “golden smithies” here, while another poem titled for it describes smiths making  
singing birds “of hammered gold and gold enamel” for the “drowsy Emperor” of this place. In  
that poem, the speaker claims to “have sailed the seas and come” to this place because his heart  
is “sick with desire and fastened to a dying animal.\" That poem about this place begins with the  
line, “That is no country for old men.” For 10 points, name this city which William Butler Yeats  
wrote about “Sailing to.”  
ANSWER:  Byzantium 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 TOSSUPS  
9. During this event, officials at the Delphi Lodge hunting lodge told people to journey there,  
with several dying during the trip in what is called the Doolough Tragedy. People escaping this  
event used the McCorkell Line. Sir Charles Trevelyan’s relief efforts during this event were  
criticized, and Queen Victoria legendarily only gave five pounds to help the victims of it.  
Despite predictions, conditions failed to improve even after the repealing of the Corn Laws. It  
resulted in numerous evictions, with 10% of all of them happening in County Mayo. For 10  
points, name this 1840’s period of mass starvation caused by a crop failure on a European island.  
ANSWER: The  Irish Potato  Famine [or  an Gorta Mor ; prompt on  Great Famine ]  
10. A contrabassoon solo opens a piece by this composer in which basses play arpeggios on open  
strings. This composer used a F-E-D-C sharp ostinato throughout the first movement of a piece  
that ends with a \"Feria.\" A \"Pantomime\" containing a famous flute solo and a popular \"Danse  
generale\" appear in the second suite from one of this composer's ballets, in which the bumbling  
cowherd Dorcon fails to court a shepherdess. Like Prokofiev, this composer of  Rapsodie  
Espagnole  wrote a  Piano Concerto for the Left Hand  for Paul Wittgenstein, and he composed a  
piece in which a repetitive melody is played over a snare drum ostinato. For 10 points, name this  
French composer of  Daphnis et Chloe  and  Bolero .  
ANSWER: Joseph Maurice  Ravel   
11. A woman in this painting holds a spindle and distaff, with the thread about to be cut by the  
scissors in her other hand. A masked character in this painting empties several wine flasks. A  
mass of characters gather behind a shield wall at this painting's right. In this painting, a jester  
hides underneath a table littered with a backgammon board and playing cards. The right-center  
of this painting contains a spike-filled tunnel adorned with the cross that people are being herded  
into, and its background is filled with smoke from burning ships. A man is crushed under the  
wheels of a cart driven by a hurdy-gurdy player in this painting. For 10 points, name this  
skeleton-dominated, post-apocalyptic painting created by Pieter Breughel the Elder.  
ANSWER:  The  Triumph of Death   
12. H. C. Plummer's model of these structures has a too-steep fifth power dropoff of the density,  
though that model is often used in toy N-body simulations. These formations are sorted by their  
central mass density into classes 1 through 12 in the Shapley-Sawyer classification system. The  
mean value of the relaxation time of these structures is on the order of one billion years, and  
these structures generally remain gravitationally bound, except in the case of strong tidal forces.  
Those visible to the naked eye include 47 Tucanae and Omega Centauri, and these formations  
are general found outside of the galactic disk proper in a spherical distribution. For 10 points,  
name these collections of stars with a roughly spherical shape.  
ANSWER:  globular cluster 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 TOSSUPS  
13. This was the primary occupation of a man who informed against suspects in the mutilation of  
the Herms. Another man of this occupation was jailed for taking twenty talents deposited by the  
roguish Harpalus. For suggesting that his rival be awarded a golden crown, an irascible man of  
this occupation accused Ctesiphon of criminal activity, prompting the more famous rival's \"On  
the Crown.\" In antiquity, there were ten great Attic ones, including Aeschines and Isocrates. The  
most famous of these men assisted Philocrates in crafting a peace treaty between Athens and  
Macedon, practiced with pebbles in his mouth to overcome his stutter, and delivered the original  
Philippics.  For 10 points, name this occupation held by Demosthenes.  
ANSWER: Greek  orator s [or public  speaker s]  
14. A tumor of this organ common in children produces increased homovanillic acid and can be  
caused by amplification of N-myc, and these organs are enlarged in 21-hydroxylase deficiency.  
Overactive tumors in one section of this organ cause Conn's syndrome. One section of these  
organs contains three layers, called the zona reticularis, zona glomerulosa, and zona fasciculata.  
One section of these organs secretes a hormone that increases secretion of potassium and whose  
release is stimulated by angiotensin II. Another section of these organs secretes catecholamines  
like norepinephrine and epinephrine. For 10 points, name these paired glands that contain a  
cortex and a medulla and are located on top of the kidneys.  
ANSWER:  adrenal  glands  
15. This author wrote a play in which some reporters inform the title character that Jonathan and  
Mary died when their driver was drunk and crashed into a bridge abutment. In that play by this  
author, an explosion destroys the bank owned by the title character. This author claimed that  
certain things should be “motionless in time as the moon climbs\" and \"equal to, not true.\" In one  
of his plays, Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar appear as three comforters to the title character who  
denies them. That play of his begins with Mr. Zuss and Nickles putting on masks representing  
God and Satan. This author wrote, \"A poem should not mean, but be\" in a Horace-inspired poem.  
For 10 points, name this author of \"Ars Poetica\" and the play  J.B.  
ANSWER:  Archibald  MacLeish   
16. During the Franco-Dutch War, this man was victorious at the battle of Maastricht along with  
the Duke of Monmouth. Early in his life, he was imprisoned in the Tower of London for a year  
under suspicions that he was conspiring to put James II back on the throne. He received many of  
his positions due to his wife’s connections to princess Anne. His most notable military victory  
came when he took the duc de Tallard captive after decisively defeating a French offensive with  
the help of Eugene of Savoy. For 10 points, name this English duke who named his home after  
his victory at Blenheim.  
ANSWER: Duke of  Marlborough  [or John  Churchill ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 TOSSUPS  
17. On this holiday, Hans Castorp confesses his love to Claudia Chauchat in French after  
borrowing a pencil from her to use on a pig. The arrival of Galatea on a shell inspires the  
Homunculus to kill himself on this holiday. On this holiday, a character exclaims, \"Forgive me,  
but manuscripts don't burn\" before producing a supposedly-lost novel. On this holiday, Natasha  
arrives naked on the back of a pig in a novel in which a ball takes places in Berlioz's apartment.  
A mouse coming out of a dancer's mouth in an event on this holiday reminds the protagonist of a  
verse drama to think of Gretchen. For 10 points, name this holiday that occurs on April 30th,  
when witches' sabbaths occur in scenes from  The Master and Margarita  and  Faust.   
ANSWER:  Walpurgisnacht  [or  Walpurgis Night ]  
18. This woman bore a son who indirectly caused Phaethon's death by questioning his claim to  
be the son of Helios. Book I of Herodotus claims that Phoenician sailors' abduction of this  
woman provoked all future conflicts between the East and West. In  Prometheus Bound ,  
Prometheus tells this woman that her descendant, Heracles, will release him from his torment.  
This mother of Epaphus and daughter of Inachus was taken to bed by a god in the form of a  
white cloud. Hera sent a gadfly to pursue this woman across the world, leading her to jump  
across the Bosphorus and end up in Egypt. Hermes rescued this woman by boring and then  
killing Argus Panoptes. For 10 points, name this mistress whom Zeus turned into a white cow.  
ANSWER:    Io 
19. A well-endowed and oft-kissed statue of Victor Noir was built after he was shot dead by a  
member of this family. A female member of this family invested a lot of her own money into the  
excavations of Pompeii. Another member of this family justified his rule by drafting the  
Bayonne Statute, and abdicated soon after the Battle of Vitoria. Niccolo Paganini carried out an  
affair with a notoriously promiscuous member of this family, and her sister Caroline married a  
general in the good graces of this family, Joachim Murat. A hapless member of this family,  
named Joseph, was appointed king of Naples, Sicily, and Spain. For 10 points, name this family,  
a motley crew of folks related to a Corsican-born French emperor.  
ANSWER:  Bonaparte   
20. This country's capital is home to a tourists' ghetto, called Thamel, and a bazaar called Asan.  
The Newars were this place's original inhabitants. After India, this country has the second-most  
Hindu population in the world, at up to ninety percent of its population. Shakya, in this modern- 
day country, is where the Buddha was born. The Annapurna Mountains and Sagarmatha National  
Park are located in this country. Jon Krakauer’s  Into Thin Air  details a distaster which took place  
in this country. Uniquely, this country's flag consists of two overlapping triangles. For 10 points,  
name this country, home to eight of the world's ten tallest mountains, including most of Mount  
Everest.  
ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of  Nepal 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 TOSSUPS  
21. The protagonist of one of this author’s novels sees a shipwreck survivor lying on a stretcher  
and clutching a stamp-album. In one of his novels, a fat man named Jose ignores the pleas of  
some people in a cemetery and is often asked to “come to bed” by his wife. In another, a woman  
consults a ouija board while investigating the death of “Kolley Kibber.” This author of a novel in  
which Pinkie blinds himself with acid and jumps off a cliff also wrote of Major Henry Scobie’s  
suicide. In another novel of his, a priest follows the yellow-toothed mestizo to a cave, where he  
is caught by the Lieutenant. For 10 points, name this author whose novels include  The Heart of  
the Matter  and  The Power and the Glory.   
ANSWER: Graham  Greene   
22. Oriana Fallaci insisted that a phrase during this mission was scripted, which Pete Conrad  
later tried to disprove with an ad-lib beginning with the shout \"Whoopee!\". After a previous  
mission used vehicles named  Charlie Brown  and  Snoopy , this mission used more \"seriously\"  
named vehicles, such as  Columbia . Jim Lovell was removed from it in favor of Michael Collins.  
One phase of this mission's completion was signified with the phrase \"The  Eagle  has landed\",  
while its most enduring quote is \"That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind\". For  
10 points, name this NASA mission which culminated in a historic July 20, 1969 moonwalk by  
Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin.  
ANSWER:  Apollo 11   
23. The murder of this man's secretary Juan de Escobedo overshadowed this guy's capture of  
Namur late in life. This man, the author of the quote \"There is no paradise for cowards,\" ratted  
out Don Carlos, namesake of the Schiller play. This man signed the Perpetual Edict in his role as  
Governor-General of the Netherlands. Following his best-known feat, this overeager man was  
only allowed to conquer Tunis. This man commanded the  Real  alongside the future Doge of  
Venice and an admiral from Genoa in a battle in which Cervantes lost his arm. This man led the  
Holy League against the Ottomans in that 1571 battle. For 10 points, name this illegitimate son  
of Charles V who won the Battle of Lepanto.  
ANSWER:  John  of Austria [or  Don John  of Austria; or  Don Juan  de Austria; or Ritter  Johann  
von Österreich] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 BONUSES  
1. This model uses a production function \"Y equals A times K to the alpha times L to the beta,\"  
where for simplicity's sake alpha plus beta often equals one, implying constant returns to scale.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this doubly-eponymous model of a firm's output, empirically tested by its namesakes  
against measures of the U.S. economy.  
ANSWER:  Cobb-Douglas  model  
[10] In the Cobb-Douglas model, L represents this capacity of humans to do work, as opposed to  
other factors of production like land and capital, the latter of which is represented by K.  
ANSWER:  labor   
[10] Alpha and beta represent the percent change in output with respect to percent change in  
input, making them this kind of measure of the effect of a change in one variable, such as price,  
on the change in another, such as demand.  
ANSWER:  elasticity   
2. This event is planned after one of its participants flirts with Olga at the name day ceremony of  
Olga's sister Tatiana. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this fatal incident related in fourteen-line stanzas, which Guillot and Zaretsky, the  
seconds, do not prevent. It is survived by a dandyish St. Petersburg socialite.  
ANSWER: the  duel  between Eugene  Onegin  and Vladimir  Lensky  [or the  duel  in the poem  
Eugene Onegin ; or obvious equivalents]  
[10] This part-black poet of  The Bronze Horseman  wrote the duel scene as part of his long poem  
Eugene Onegin.   
ANSWER: Alexander  Pushkin   
[10] This author of  King, Queen, Knave  harshly criticized Walter Arndt's English translation of  
Eugene Onegin  before producing his own.  
ANSWER: Vladimir  Nabokov   
3. It was originally organized as the anti-federalist party, and the whip of this party was  
withdrawn from Godfrey Bloom after he attacked a journalist in the street. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this far-right political party in the UK led by Nigel Farange.  
ANSWER:  UKIP  [or  United Kingdom Independence Party ]  
[10] True to its name, one of UKIP's main advocacies is the withdrawal from this supranational  
group originally created by the Maastricht Treaty.  
ANSWER:  European Union  [or  EU ]  
[10] Another British right-wing political party, the BNP, was led by this white supremacist and  
Holocaust-denying member of the European Parliament. He made a controversial October 22nd,  
2009 appearance on  Question Time.   
ANSWER: Nicholas John  Griffin 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 BONUSES  
4. This religion is studied by the scholarly group KOSANBA. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this syncretic, Haitian religion which believes in spirits called loas, some of which  
include Papa Legba and Baron Samedi.  
ANSWER:  voodoo   
[10] Voodoo adherents worship this supreme god, who is nevertheless unreachable, which means  
practitioners must pray to the loas instead.  
ANSWER:  Bondye   
[10] As opposed to a houngan or mambo, these are black magic sorcerers in voodoo who are  
usually linked to the creation of zombies.  
ANSWER:  bokor s  
5. A piece of this kind originally thought to have been by this composer, nicknamed  Adelaide,  all  
but vanished from the repertoire when it was proven to be composed by Marius Casadesus. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name these five orchestral pieces, the third of which incorporates a folk melody called \"The  
Strassburger,\" and the last of which is called the \"Turkish.\"  
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  Mozart's violin concerto s [or  violin concerti by Mozart ]  
[10] The replacement finale for the first of Mozart's violin concerti is a separately played concert  
piece of this lively character type. Another such piece by Mozart is the one \"alla turca\" from his  
eleventh piano sonata.  
ANSWER:  rondo  [or  rondeau ]  
[10] Some information about the violin concerti actually comes to us from correspondence with  
this writer of an influential violin textbook and composer of the  Toy Symphony,  who was  
Mozart's father.  
ANSWER: Johann Georg  Leopold  Mozart [prompt on  L Mozart ; prompt on  Mozart ]  
6. \"Owl Eyes\" compares Jay Gatsby to this man after noticing Gatsby's fake library. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this legendary theatrical producer, who revolutionized the usage of lighting and  
naturalistic sets in Broadway plays. He wrote the plays  Madame Butterfly  and  The Girl of the  
Golden West,  that were later turned into operas.  
ANSWER: David  Belasco   
[10] In  The Great Gatsby,  Owl Eyes make the Belasco analogy to this man, the narrator of the  
book and neighbor of Gatsby.  
ANSWER:  Nick  Carraway [or Nick  Carraway ]  
[10] Belasco also gets a mention in this author's book  Tropic of Capricorn.  This man's semi- 
autobiographical works like  Tropic of Cancer  featured explicit sexual scenes.  
ANSWER: Henry  Miller 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 BONUSES  
7. An early instance of these items were worn by the Cornuti, but they may have entered popular  
culture by way of Carl Doepler's costumes for the first Bayreuth Festival. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these pieces of protective gear which were, contrary to popular belief, more  
commonly worn by samurai than by Vikings.  
ANSWER:  horned helmet s [or  helmets with horns on them ; or  horned headgear ]  
[10] An unhorned Viking helmet was unearthed from the undisturbed seventh century ship burial  
at this English archaeological site.  
ANSWER:  Sutton Hoo   
[10] The aforementioned \"Cornuti\" were Germanic soldiers working for this Roman Emperor,  
who used them against Maxentius at the Siege of Verona and Battle of Milvian Bridge.  
ANSWER:  Constantine  the Great [or  Constantine  I; or Saint  Constantine ]  
8. Answer the following about painting in the Dutch Golden Age, for 10 points each.  
[10] Jan Steen's household scenes exemplify this type of painting, made by many artists of the  
time, which focuses on the daily lives of ordinary people.  
ANSWER:  genre  painting [or any answer mentioning  genre ]  
[10]  The Milkmaid  and  The Music Lesson  are among the masterpieces of genre painting by this  
artist, who also painted  View of Delft.   
ANSWER: Johannes  Vermeer  [or Jan  Vermeer ]  
[10] This Dutch landscape artist enjoyed using sunlight near sunrise and sunset, as well as  
depicting cows as his subjects. In most of his paintings, the sky takes up more than half the  
canvas, but an exception is his most famous painting, the ship-filled  The Maas at Dordrecht.   
ANSWER: Aelbert  Cuyp   
9. Though she was a goddess of impure acts, she mainly served to purify the sins and vices of  
others, and she is considered either the sister or mother of Centeotl, the goddess of corn. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Identify this Aztec goddess of sexually transmitted diseases and adultery, who also ate dirt.  
ANSWER:  Tlazolteotl   
[10] Tlazolteotl shared sin-confession duties with this evil god of Aztec myth sometimes known  
as “Smoking Mirror”. The psychopomp Xipe Totec is often called the “Red” form of this deity.  
ANSWER:  Tezcatlipoca   
[10] During the creation of the world, Tezcatlipoca sacrificed this body part to Cipactli.  
ANSWER: his right  foot   
10. This author wrote the play  The Man Who Turned into a Stick.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this author who created a character whose personality changes dramatically after  
his face is burned and he makes a new plastic mask for himself in  The Face of Another.   
ANSWER: Kobo  Abe   
[10] Kobo Abe is most famous for this novel, in which the entomologist Niki Junpei becomes  
trapped with a stranger in a village digging sand every day.  
ANSWER:  The  Woman in the Dunes  [or  Suna no onna ]  
[10] Abe wrote a novel about a \"ruined\" one of these. Jim Hawkins acquires one of these from  
Billy Bones near the beginning of  Treasure Island.   
ANSWER: a  map 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 BONUSES  
11. Its mythical founder was said to have been sired when a “quinotaur” raped the wife of  
Chlodio. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this dynasty whose members were called the “long-haired kings”. Its rule was  
ended by a 752 declaration of Pope Zachary.  
ANSWER:  Merovingian  dynasty  
[10] The Merovingians ruled over these Germanic peoples, who occupied the region the Romans  
referred to as Gaul.  
ANSWER:  Frank s  
[10] The Merovingians were part of this group of Franks, whose name derives from the IJssel  
river. They are contrasted with the Ripuarian Franks and created a body of law that governed,  
among other things, agnatic succession.  
ANSWER:  Salic  Franks [or  Salian  Franks]  
12. This parameter is used to sort stars into population I, II, and III, and it appears to decrease  
with the age of a star. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this value, which is the proportion of a star that consists of elements other than  
hydrogen and helium  
ANSWER:  metallicity   
[10] Stellar metallicity is important for measuring the parameters of the nucleosynthesis process  
predicted by this theory. This theory, which was added to by the inflationary model, posits the  
universe began in a namesake explosion.  
ANSWER:  Big Bang  theory  
[10] This middle author of the famous paper proposing the proportions of Big Bang  
nucleosynthesis also presented the computation of the Lamb shift at the Shelter Island  
Conference.  
ANSWER: Hans  Bethe   
13. Corruption in this state's government has been the target of the FBI investigation codenamed  
Operation Dollar Bill. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this state that was also the site of the central activity of  Luther v. Borden .  
ANSWER: State of  Rhode Island  and Providence Plantations  
[10]  Luther v. Borden  concerned the arrest of a participant in this uprising that aimed to make the  
electoral system of Rhode Island give all free men suffrage.  
ANSWER:  Dorr 's Rebellion  
[10] The Dorr Rebellion was largely settled by the drafting of a new state constitution in this  
city. This city was also the site of a 1919 sex scandal involving the U.S. Navy, which resulted in  
criticism of then-Assistant Secretary of the Navy, FDR.  
ANSWER:  Newport   
14. Name some things you'd need to know to implement the RSA encryption algorithm, for 10  
points each.  
[10] The first step in RSA encryption is to choose two numbers, usually denoted p and q, with  
this property also possessed by numbers that pass through the Sieve of Eratosthenes.  
ANSWER:  prime 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 BONUSES  
[10] The next step is to compute p times q, to find n, which will act as this value for the public  
and private keys. This value gives an integer when dividing the difference in two integers in a  
congruence.  
ANSWER:  modulus   
[10] The public exponent, which must have a greatest common divisor of one with the Euler's  
totient function of the modulus, is almost always chosen to be one of these numbers. Only the  
first five of these numbers – 3, 5, 17, 257, and 65537 – are known to be prime.  
ANSWER:  Fermat  primes [or  Fermat  numbers]  
15. Answer some questions about hard-soft acid-base theory, for 10 points each.  
[10] HSAB theory helps explain the stability of covalently bonded compounds, which is  
determined by the difference in this value between the two atoms. This quantity is typically  
measured on the Pauling scale.  
ANSWER:  electronegativity   
[10] Hard acids and bases tend to have higher energies for these two orbitals. One of these two  
orbitals contains the most reactive electrons of an atom, while the other is completely empty.  
ANSWER:  HOMO  and  LUMO  [or  frontier  orbitals; prompt on partial answer]  
[10] The diars [DEE-arz] ligand, which is great for chelating soft metal cations, contains two  
atoms of this element. The Marsh test was designed to detect this element in a cup of coffee in a  
murder case in the 1830’s.  
ANSWER:  arsenic  [or  As ]  
16. Karel Soucek successfully did this in 1984, but was later killed while trying to recreate it at  
the Houston Astrodome. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this action first done in 1901 by Michigan schoolteacher Annie Taylor as a publicity  
stunt. Fourteen other people have intentionally done this, despite its illegality, with several  
drowning in the process.  
ANSWER:  going over Niagara Falls  in a barrel [or  going over Horseshoe Falls ]  
[10] Niagara Falls is on the border between Canada and this state.  
ANSWER:  New York   
[10] This boat tour of Niagara Falls, which is also the name of the boats, goes through the  
various falls, and takes its name from the spray passengers will presumably be hit with.  
ANSWER:  Maid of the Mist   
17. Antonio Salieri set part of this opera's libretto to music, but gave up in a hissy fit. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this opera in which the officers Ferrando and Guglielmo, disagreeing with Alfonso  
that all women are fickle, agree to dress up as Albanians and seduce each others' fiancees.  
ANSWER:  Cosi  Fan Tutte, ossia La Scuola degli Amanti  [or  Thus Do They All , or The School  
for Lovers ]  
[10] After pretending to poison themselves, the Albanians are \"revived\" by one of these objects  
brought in by the maid Despina, disguised as a doctor, in a ludicrous scene that unfolds at the  
end of Act I.  
ANSWER:  magnet   
[10]  Cosi  is an opera buffa by this composer, who tasked the Queen of the Night with singing the  
comically-hard aria \"Der Holle Rache\" in  The Magic Flute. 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 BONUSES  
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  Mozart  [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus  
Mozart ]  
18. After being attacked for the second time by a pack of dogs, this character has a dream in  
which a preacher delivers a sermon on seventy-times-seven pardonable sins. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this renter of Thrushcross Grange, who is told about Catherine Earnshaw's childhood  
by Nelly Dean.  
ANSWER: Mr.  Lockwood   
[10] Mr. Lockwood learns about Catherine Earnshaw's rejection of Heathcliff in this only novel  
by Emily Brontë, in which he visits the title Yorkshire estate.  
ANSWER:  Wuthering Heights   
[10] Heathcliff, whose family is unknown, is frequently referred to as one of this group of  
people, which an Oxford student joins in a poem by Matthew Arnold.  
ANSWER: a \"dark-skinned  gipsy \" [or  Rom a; or  Roma ni]  
19. This decree was issued at an imperial diet held in Nuremberg in 1356. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this decree, which set a procedure whereby seven electors from different regions  
would choose the next Holy Roman Emperor upon a vacancy of that office.  
ANSWER:  Golden Bull  of 1356  
[10] The secular electors included the margrave of this northeastern German state, which merged  
into Prussia in the 1600s.  
ANSWER: Margraviate of  Brandenburg   
[10] The Golden Bull was promulgated under Charles IV of this house, which held the Holy  
Roman Emperorship under Sigismund prior to the Habsburgs.  
ANSWER: House of  Luxembourg   
20. This compound is released from enterochromaffin-like cells, which acts with gastrin to  
promote hydrochloric acid secretion. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this compound involved in the inflammatory response and is released when an  
allergen binds to IgE antibodies, which is why drugs that bind to its receptor are effective at  
relieving allergies.  
ANSWER:  histamine   
[10] Histamine is primarily produced by basophils and these cells, which are involved in the  
allergen response. These cells are also notable for their fast release of TNF-alpha.  
ANSWER:  mast  cells [or  mastocyte s; or  labrocyte s]  
[10] These receptors bind to antibodies and are named for the tail region of an antibody with  
which they react. Its epsilon R1 form, which is specific to IgE, is found on basophils and mast  
cells.  
ANSWER:  Fc  receptors  
21. A recently published edition of a work by this man includes an introduction by Arundhati  
Roy, titled “The Doctor and the Saint.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this politician who helped draft the Constitution of India in 1949. This Columbia- 
educated Dalit campaigned against the caste system with books like  Annihilation of Caste .  
ANSWER: B. R.  Ambedkar  [or Bhimrao Ramji  Ambedkar ; or  Babasaheb ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 8 BONUSES  
[10] Ambedkar urged Dalits to free themselves from the caste system by doing this action. Doing  
this involves taking the Three Refuges and accepting the Five Precepts.  
ANSWER:  conversion to Buddhism  [accept equivalents]  
[10] This man began a hunger strike to protest rights that Ambedkar had won for the Dalits in  
some Round Table Conferences 1932. Aside from his support for the caste system, he is known  
for espousing  satyagraha  and leading the Salt March.  
ANSWER: Mohandas Karamchand  Gandhi  [or Mahatma  Gandhi ] 
