NASAT 2011 
Round 7 
Tossups 
1. One tumor of this tissue is caused by an EWS to FLI1 translocation and presents with an onion skin 
appearance, and tumors of this tissue often create Codman triangles. Mutations in the src kinase in mice 
results in abnormally high density of this tissue. Besides Ewing’s sarcoma, this tissue is usually destroyed 
heavily in multiple myeloma, creating “punch-out” lesions. The cells that break down this tissue rest in 
Howship’s Lacunae, and Volkmann’s canals run transversely through this tissue, perpendicularly to 
Haversian canals. This tissue contains large amounts of hydroxyapatite, and parathyroid hormone causes its 
resorption. It comes in cortical or compact and cancellous or spongy varieties, and its cells are known as 
osteocytes. This tissue becomes porous in osteoporosis. For 10 points, name this white, hard, 
calcium-containing tissue that composes the skeletal system. 
ANSWER:  
Bone 
048-11-30-07102 
2. Andrew Lloyd Webber’s only complete classical composition is this type of work. John Rutter 
composed one which includes words from the  
Book of Common Prayer 
. Krzysztof Penderecki incorporated 
the hymn \"Swiety Boze\" into his \"Polish\" one, while Luigi Cherubini wrote one in C minor. Maurice 
Duruflé wrote one of these works for organ and orchestra ending with the movement \"In Paradisum,\" 
inspired by an earlier one composed by Gabriel Faure. The piece of this type by Benjamin Britten is set to 
lines from poems by Wilfrid Owen, and is known as the \"war\" one. Its sections include the gradual, the 
sequence, and the offertory. For 10 points, name this composition based on the Latin mass for the dead. 
ANSWER:  
requiem 
 masses 
024-11-30-07103 
3. In bulk metals, this effect explains field electron emission and is described by the Fowler-Nordheim type 
equations. Erasing a NOR flash cell is dependent on this effect occurring in the floating gate, and this effect 
can be used to achieve negative differential resistance in a particular type of diode named for Esaki. This 
phenomenon results in the production of a current in the DC Josephson effect. Alpha decay is governed by 
this process, in which a particle’s Schrodinger equation is represented as a decaying exponential function. 
For 10 points, name this phenomenon of quantum mechanics in which a particle can go through a 
classically forbidden region. 
ANSWER: quantum  
tunneling 
064-11-30-07104 
4. In a Lithuanian story, the death of Zilvinas causes Egle to turn herself into one of these entities. In the 
Popul Vuh, the head of Hunahpu brings one of them back to life. In Greek mythology, Melampus heals the 
prince of Pylos by removing a knife from one of them. A princess of Cyprus is transformed into one of 
these after seducing her father Cinyras, in which form she gives birth to Adonis. After receiving generous 
hospitality, Zeus and Hermes transform Baucis and Philemon into these entities. In Greek mythology they 
are inhabited by Dryads. Daphne became one of these to escape Apollo. For 10 points, the Norse Yggdrasil 
is an example of what kind of large mythological plant? 
ANSWER:  
tree 
s 
015-11-30-07105 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This monarch dismissively referred to the previous king as “Mr. Caliban”, and vast sums were 
committed to a wartime budget by this monarch’s minister, Sidney Godolphin. A smooth transition of 
power following this monarch’s death was ensured by Charles Talbot, the Lord Chamberlain. The 
Octobrists were a group of Tories who demanded an end to the war that dominated most of this monarch’s 
reign. An Act of Union passed during this monarch’s reign united England and Scotland. The era of 
two-party politics is often said to have begun during this monarch’s reign, and this monarch was forced to 
dismiss the Tory minister Robert Harley due to the scheming of Abigail Masham, the rival of Sarah 
Churchill. Taking the throne after the death of William III, none of the children from her 18 pregnancies 
survived to adulthood. For 10 points, name this last Stuart monarch of England. 
ANSWER: Queen  
Anne 
 I Stuart 
094-11-30-07106 
6. According to Vasari, Paolo Uccello was so in love with this entity that he refused to go to bed with his 
wife. It was first introduced to Europe through a work of Al-Hazen. In  
Della pittura 
, Alberti recommends 
using a veil and a \"costruzione legittima\" to employ this technique. Brunelleschi had people look through a 
peephole in the back of a painting to demonstrate it, and is often named as its inventor. This technique can 
be illustrated with the use of orthogonals to show the convergence of parallel lines at a vanishing point. For 
10 points, identify this painting technique that is used to illustrate foreshortened objects and distance on a 
two-dimensional surface. 
ANSWER:  
perspective 
033-11-30-07107 
7. At the beginning of this novel, one character argues over a two pence toll and saves a man who falls 
asleep in a smoky hut. The protagonist of this work sends a playful valentine note to William Boldwood 
asking him to marry her, and later falls in love with a man who had previously impregnated Fanny Robin. 
Another character in this work is ruined after a sheepdog drives his flock over a cliff. Among the suitors of 
this work’s protagonist are Sergeant Troy and Gabriel Oak. Bathsheba Everdene is the protagonist of, for 
10 points, what Thomas Hardy novel whose title was taken from a line in \"Elegy Written in a Country 
Churchyard\"? 
ANSWER:  
Far from the Madding Crowd 
064-11-30-07108 
8. In the late 1940s and early 50s, government oversight of these was carried out by committees led by 
Haskins and Stevenson. One type of these was produced in Building 470. During the Cold War, Plum 
Island was used for activities related to these. The U.S. investigated these in Project Whitecoat. Nixon 
destroyed stockpiles of these at the Pine Bluff Arsenal and stopped production efforts at Fort Detrick, 
Maryland, the home of USAMRIID. George W. Merck headed research into them during World War II. 
One of these was possibly used by a person some believe to be Bruce Edwards Ivins in a series of 2001 
attacks through the mail. For 10 points, name these weapons that include smallpox and anthrax. 
ANSWER:  
biological weapons 
 [accept  
biological 
 weapon after weapon is mentioned; accept anything 
indicating that disease and/or creatures are being used in a military context; prompt on  
disease 
s] 
001-11-30-07109 
9. Future Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist operated on this man after he was accidentally shot in the chest 
with an M-16 in 1991. As head of the army's officer school at Fort Leavenworth, this man oversaw the 
writing of Army Field Manual 3-24, which was an effort to revise counterinsurgency doctrine. This man 
assumed his current position shortly after his predecessor, Stanley McCrystal, was fired for comments he 
made regarding civilian military policy in  
Rolling Stone 
. For 10 points, name this one-time commander of 
the Multi-National Forces in Iraq, and current commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan. 
ANSWER: David  
Petraeus 
030-11-30-07110 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. In 2010, this country opened the Monument of African Renaissance, which was built by North Korean 
laborers and which this country's president claimed a thirty-five percent commission on because it was his 
idea. With its smaller neighbor, this country is the site of over 1,000 stone circles used to mark burial 
mounds. Locations in this country that played an important role in the slave trade include Saint-Louis and 
the site of the Maison des Esclaves, the island of Gorée. The Gambia is almost entirely surrounded by this 
country. For 10 points, name this country, home to the westernmost point in Africa and the city of Dakar. 
ANSWER:  
Senegal 
088-11-30-07111 
11. The main characters of this novel attempt to smuggle a friend out of the country in a carrot truck before 
he abandons the corpse of Jules Peterson in their hotel room. An incident when Maria Wallis shoots a 
woman on a train prefigures the violent death of Abe North in this novel, while earlier Albert McKiscko 
challenges Tommy Barban to a duel. The protagonist meets his wife while she is staying in Dr. Franz 
Gregorovius's clinic in Zurich, but he has an affair on the French Riviera with the star of  
Daddy’s Girl 
, 
Rosemary Hoyt. For 10 points, name this novel ending when Nicole Warren divorces Dick Diver, written 
by F. Scott Fitzgerald. 
ANSWER:  
Tender Is the Night 
079-11-30-07112 
12. Conivaptan and Tolvaptan are recently approved receptor antagonists of this compound, a derivative of 
which is used to treat uremic platelet dysfuction. Small-cell lung carcinoma often secretes this hormone 
inappropriately, which leads to euvolemic hyponatremia. In pigs, this hormone contains a lysine at the 8th 
position rather than an arginine, and it is under-secreted in central diabetes insipidus. This hormone works 
by inserting additional aquaporins into the membrane of the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. 
This hormone, which like oxytocin is secreted by the posterior pituitary gland, is responsible for staving off 
dehydration. For 10 points, name this hormone which is responsible for signaling the kidneys to retain 
water. 
ANSWER:  
anti-diuretic hormone 
 [or  
ADH 
; or  
Vasopressin 
] 
048-11-30-07113 
13. In medieval Japan, this branch of thought was concerned with the concepts of  
 sabi  
 and  
 yugen, 
 which 
is discussed with Ki no Tsurayuki. Gianni Vattimo was made a Professor of this discipline and discussed its 
relation to truth. One work in this discipline by Martin Heidegger analyzes its relation to the hermeneutic 
circle by discussing a pair of shoes. John Dewey posited that the central concept of this philosophical area 
of thought should be treated as \"experience.\" For 10 points, identify this field of philosophy that analyzes 
the ideal and beauty of works of art. 
ANSWER:  
aesthetics 
 [or equivalents that convey the  
study of art 
] 
033-11-30-07114 
14. In one of this artist's works, Adam and Eve hold up chalices to collect Jesus's blood on the cross. That is 
Dogma of the Redemption 
, which is a part of his  
Triumph of Religion 
 mural cycle in the Boston Public 
Library. This man produced the official presidential portrait of Theodore Roosevelt. Several men sit against 
the wall playing guitar while a gypsy dances in his  
El Jaleo 
. This artist depicted two young girls with 
Chinese lanterns surrounded by flowers, and created another painting featuring Virginie Amélie Avegno 
Gautreau. The former painting is  
Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose 
. For 10 points, name this artist of  
Portrait of 
Madame X 
. 
ANSWER: John Singer  
Sargent 
001-11-30-07115 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. While in the United States, this man was employed by the inventor Antonio Meucci. Early in his life, 
this man led the sack of a city during the Anglo-French blockade of the Río de la Plata, and also supported 
the rebels in the War of the Farrapos. He also led the Army of the Vosges in the Franco-Prussian War. He 
was victorious at the Battle of Volturnus, allowing him to defeat the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies as part of 
his Expedition of the Thousand. For 10 points, name this commander of the Redshirts, a leader of Italian 
unification. 
ANSWER: Giuseppe  
Garibaldi 
024-11-30-07116 
16. One method of removing this functional group involves reacting it with a potassium xanthate followed 
by an elimination. Besides the undergoing the Chugaev elimination, this functional group is protected by 
dihydropyran. Zinc chloride is used to test for their presence in the Lucas test. The Collins reagent and 
Jones reagent are commonly used to oxidize this functional group, and solutions of a compound of this 
element are used in SN1 solvolysis reactions. These compoudns have higher boiling points than their 
corresponding thiols, and they exhibit a broad peak around 3300 inverse centimeters on IR spectroscopy. 
This functional group contains a carbon and a hydrogen both single bonded to an oxygen. For 10 points, 
name this functional group found in ethanol. 
ANSWER:  
alcohol 
 [or  
hydroxyl 
] 
048-11-30-07117 
17. A fight between The Gimp and Justo takes place in this author's short story “The Challenge.” A novel 
by this author sees Bonifacia take up prostitution to support Josefino, while Don Anselmo builds the title 
jungle brothel. In another of his novels, a dogcatcher named Ambrosio and a journalist named Santiago 
discuss at length the rule of Manuel Odria. In one of his best known novels, one of the characters works at 
Radio Panamerica and the even numbered chapters consist of soap operas written by Pedro Camacho. The 
author of  
Conversation in the Cathedral 
 and  
The War at the End of the World 
, for 10 points, name this 
novelist behind  
Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter 
, a Nobel-winning author from Peru. 
ANSWER: Mario  
Vargas Llosa 
 [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa, 1st Marquis of Vargas Llosa] 
094-11-30-07118 
18. In 1954, Khalid Bakdash of this country became the first Communist elected to the legislative body of 
an Arab nation. Short-lived military leaders of this country included Sami al-Hinnawi and Husni al-Za’im, 
the so-called “Colonels” who overthrew National Party leader Shukri al-Quwatli. Michel Aflaq co-founded 
one political party in this country. The French tried to divide this nation between its two largest ethnic 
groups, the Alawites and the Druze. It’s not Iraq, but the Ba’th party has held power in this country. In the 
Six Day War, it lost control of the Golan Heights. Ruled for three decades by Hafez al-Assad, for 10 points, 
name this country with capital at Damascus. 
ANSWER:  
Syria 
n Arab Republic [or Al Jumhuriyah al Arabiyah as  
Suriyah 
] 
094-11-30-07119 
19. In one traditional rite that takes place on this holiday, men defend themselves with shields as women 
from Radha attack them with staves. It also includes a “swing festival” in which songs are sung while 
images of gods are swung around on moving platforms. One rite performed during this holiday 
commemorates the loyalty and miraculous fire resistance of Prahlada at the hands of Hiranyakashipu, who 
is killed by the Visnu lion-man avatar Narasimha. That rite is the burning of massive bonfires early in the 
morning. On this main day of this holiday, celebrants throw colored water and colored powder on each 
other. For 10 points, name this festive spring Hindu holiday. 
ANSWER:  
Holi 
015-11-30-07120 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. This author wrote a book about a painter who studies under Jacques David before ordering the Death of 
his Friend Maurice Brotteaux as a member of the Grand Tribunal during the Reign of Terror. In addition to 
that novel about Evariste Gamelin, he wrote about a monk’s efforts to convert the title Egyptian courtesan 
to Christianity in a novel that inspired a Massanet opera. This author of the  
The Gods Are Athirst 
 wrote a 
book about a man who travels to Italy to buy a rare book from Signor Polizzi only to learn the book was 
sent to Paris, while another novel sees the monk Mael baptize a society of the title creatures living at the 
North Pole. For 10 points, name this French author of  
The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard 
 and  
Penguin Island 
. 
ANSWER: Anatole  
France 
015-11-30-07121 
21. This book uses the metaphor of constructing a jigsaw puzzle where all of the pieces not only make a 
picture, but also fit perfectly together, as an illustration of the title process. This book later asserts that most 
view the title process as the addition of bricks to a building, lending it a certain \"invisibility.\" Watkins, 
Toulmin, Lakatos, Feyerabend, and Popper held a symposium specifically to criticize this book, which 
explains that the individuals who argue from the standpoint of before and after the title process end up 
talking past one another. Its author uses the mixture of water and alcohol, atomic theory, and the 
Copernican hypothesis to illustrate the title process, which results in paradigm shifts. For 10 points, name 
this book about the history of science, written by Thomas Kuhn. 
ANSWER:  
The  Structure of Scientific Revolutions 
020-11-30-07122 
22. In one of this author's works a woman has a dream of her lover holding a dagger over her husband's 
throat. In that play the Roman Governor Felix sentences the title Armenian nobleman to death after he 
marries Pauline and converts to Christianity. This author wrote a play in which the magician Alcandre 
helps Pridamant solve the disappearance of his son Clindor. The primary conflict of his most famous play 
is triggered when one character slaps an older man because he was selected as the royal tutor. This author 
of  
Polyeucte 
 and  
The Comic Illusion 
 wrote of a noble whose assassination attempt is forgiven by Emperor 
Augustus in  
Cinna 
. He is best known for a work about a knight who falls in love with Chimene after killing 
her father Don Gomes. For 10 points, name this French dramatist of  
Le Cid 
. 
ANSWER: Pierre  
Corneille 
015-11-30-07123 
23. When this man visited Ireland for the first time, he was accompanied by Theobald Walter, who was 
named Butler of Ireland. With the King of France, he signed the Treaty of Le Goulet. He left his first wife 
so he could marry Isabella of Angoulême. His disagreement with the appointment of Stephen Langton led 
Innocent III to excommunicate him. He died in the middle of the First Barons’ War, which resulted from 
his refusal to abide by an agreement he had sealed at Runnymede in 1215. For 10 points, name this King of 
England from 1199 to 1216, who was forced to sign the Magna Carta. 
ANSWER:  
John 
 Lackland 
024-11-30-07124 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 7 
Bonuses 
1. This order was founded by Gerard after the First Crusade, about a century before the Knights Templar. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this order of knights which was originally founded to heal injured pilgrims. 
ANSWER: Knights  
Hospitaller 
 [accept  
Knights of Malta 
, but do not read this answer aloud] 
[10] In 1530, the Knights Hospitaller settled on this island, where they remained until Napoleon captured it 
in 1798. They founded its capital of Valletta. 
ANSWER:  
Malta 
[10] Malta was to be restored to the Knights Hospitaller under the terms of this 1802 treaty, which was 
signed by Joseph Bonaparte and the Marquess Cornwallis. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Amiens 
024-11-30-07201 
2. Early in his career, this one-time Freud disciple outlined various examples of the Oedipus Complex in  
The Incest Motif in Poetry and Saga 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this psychologist who advocated setting time limits on therapy and concentrating on the “here 
and now” in his work,  
Will Therapy 
. 
ANSWER: Otto  
Rank 
[10] Otto Rank is probably best known for a work on the trauma of this process, which he claimed to be the 
“ultimate biological basis of the physical.\" Midwives often assist this process. 
ANSWER:  
Birth 
[10] In this work, Rank explored the origins of figures like Jesus, Romulus and Hercules from a 
psychological point of view. Topics explored in this work include the practice of exposing infants to the 
elements in the hopes of killing them. 
ANSWER:  
The  Myth of the Birth of the Hero : A Psychological Interpretation of Mythology 
094-11-30-07202 
3. Zhuge Liang is commanded to produce one-hundred thousand arrows in this novel, whose events are set 
into motion by the Yellow Turban Rebellion. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Liu Bei defeats Cao Cao at the Battle of the Red Cliffs. 
ANSWER:  
Romance of the Three Kingdoms 
 [or  
Sanguozhi Yanyi 
] 
[10]  
Romance of the Three Kingdoms 
 is the first of this country’s Four Great Classical Novels. 
ANSWER:  
China 
[10] This novel was one of the Four Great Classical Novels until it was replaced by  
Dream of the Red 
Chamber 
. It details seventy-two sexual encounters of the lecherous Ximen Qing. 
ANSWER:  
The  Plum in the Golden Vase 
 [or  
The  Golden Lotus 
; or  
Jin Ping Mei 
] 
079-11-30-07203 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. It was expanded by the 1906 Burke Act. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1887 federal law that parcelled land held by Native Americans into lots given privately to 
individual Indians. 
ANSWER:  
Dawes 
 Severalty Act [or  
Dawes 
 General Allotment Act] 
[10] The Dawes act explicitly did not apply to this group of Indians, which included the Cherokee, 
Seminole, Creek, Choctaw, and Chicasaw. This collective name refers to the perception of these tribes’ 
societies by whites. 
ANSWER: the  
Five Civilized Tribes 
[10] Another Dawes, Calvin Coolidge’s Vice-President Charles Dawes, sponsored a namesake plan to 
relieve German World War I debt. That plan was replaced by this less onerous system, proposed by the 
founder of RCA in 1929. 
ANSWER:  
Young 
 Plan 
019-11-30-07204 
5. This song is often mistaken for the \"Sull'aria\" from  
The Marriage of Figaro 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this song also known as \"Sous le dôme épais,\" which is sung by the side of a river by Mallika 
and the daughter of Nilakantha. 
ANSWER:  
Flower Duet 
[10] The  
Flower Duet 
 opens this late nineteenth century French composer's opera  
Lakme 
. 
ANSWER: Leo  
Delibes 
[10] Lakme's \"Bell Song\" is a prominent piece for the coloratura type of this female singing voice. Famous 
singers with this voice include Beverly Sills and Maria Callas. 
ANSWER:  
soprano 
s 
004-11-30-07205 
6. This character allows himself to be convicted of the murder of Sister Dorothea, although he did not kill 
her. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this protagonist who can shatter glass with his voice and stopped growing at the age of three. 
ANSWER:  
Oskar 
 Matzerath [or Oskar  
Matzerath 
] 
[10] Oskar Matzerath is the protagonist of this German author's novel  
The Tin Drum 
, which is the first 
novel in his Danzig Trilogy. 
ANSWER: Günter Wilhelm  
Grass 
[10]  
The Tin Drum 
 features a cellar where people go to relieve themselves of painful memories, with the 
aid of these vegetables. The first volume of Grass's memoir is also titled for this vegetable. 
ANSWER:  
onion 
s 
024-11-30-07206 
7. This is denoted for infinite sets by Aleph numbers. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this measure of the size of a set. For example this is seven for the days of the week. 
ANSWER:  
cardinality 
[10] This German mathematician showed that the cardinalities of the natural numbers and real numbers are 
not the same through his diagonalization argument. 
ANSWER: Georg  
Cantor 
[10] As a consequence of the completeness theorem, the reals have this property that for any two positive 
real numbers e and b, there is a non-zero natural number n such that e times e is greater than b. Since this 
excludes infintesmials, this does not apply to the hyperreals. 
ANSWER:  
Archimedean 
 property [or  
Principle of Archimedes 
; or  
Eudoxus 
 principle; accept pretty 
much any answer referencing Archimedes or Eudoxus] 
033-11-30-07207 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Fought in France in 1916, it saw a young Adolf Hitler take a bullet to the groin. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this rather bloody World War I battle that was a tactical victory for Allied commanders Douglas 
Haig and Ferdinand Foch. 
ANSWER: Battle of the  
Somme 
[10] The Battle of the Somme saw the deployment of Mark I, the first of these vehicles with rotating gun 
turrets. The Germans called them panzer. 
ANSWER:  
tank 
s 
[10] The tanks forced the Germans to retreat past this strategic line. 
ANSWER:  
Hindenburg 
 line 
079-11-30-07208 
9. The frame dragging and geodetic effects predicted by this theory were upheld by Gravity Probe B. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this theory of gravity proposed by Einstein after he proposed his special theory. 
ANSWER:  
general relativity 
[10] This solution to the Einstein field equation describes the gravitational field of a static, symmetrical, 
spherical object. Consequently, it describes uncharged, non-rotating black holes. 
ANSWER:  
Schwarzschild 
 solution [or  
Schwarzschild 
 metric] 
[10] To deal with the singularity in the Schwarzschild solution at r=2m, one can changes coordinates to get 
this locally inextendable extension to the Schwarzschild solution. 
ANSWER:  
Kruskal 
–Szekeres extension [or  
Kruskal 
–Szekeres coordinates] 
001-11-30-07209 
10. Idealist philosopher J.M.E. McTaggart divided this concept into the A, B, and C \"tracks\" in an 
argument for its \"unreality.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this concept, the explanation of which has divided philosophers into the \"eternalist\" and 
\"presentist\" schools. 
ANSWER:  
time 
 [accept no other answer] 
[10] This philosopher paired time with \"Being\" in the title of a book that introduced the concept of 
\"dasein.\" 
ANSWER: Martin  
Heidegger 
[10] Emmanuel Levinas paired time with this type of person in one of his books. Levinas defines an 
encounter with this type of person as a \"primordial phenomenon of gentleness\" that emphasizes both 
closeness and farness. 
ANSWER: the \" 
other 
\" [accept no other answers] 
026-11-30-07210 
11. For 10 points each, answer the following about composers who left pieces unfinished. 
[10] The Austrian composer's  
Unfinished Symphony 
, his eighth, is possibly the most famous unfinished 
symphony. He also composed the  
Trout Quintet 
. 
ANSWER: Franz  
Schubert 
[10] William Primrose commissioned this composer's unfinished viola concerto. He composed 
characteristic eerie \"night music\" for the third movement Adagio of his  
Music for Strings, Percussion, and 
Celesta 
. 
ANSWER: Bela  
Bartók 
[10] This composer used the chord C F sharp B flat E A D to compose a mammoth unfinished piece he 
intended to be seven days long. He wanted that piece to be performed at the foothills of the Himalayas, and 
believed it would cause the world to dissolve into sensory bliss. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Scriabin 
052-11-30-07211 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. Identify the following about Roman involvement in Britain, for 10 points each. 
[10] An arch erected by this Roman emperor claims that his troops were able to defeat 11 British kings 
without suffering a defeat. That campaign launched by this husband of Valeria Messalina saw fighting at 
Medway against people like Caratacus. 
ANSWER:  
Claudius 
 [or Tiberius  
Claudius 
 Caesar Augustus Germanicus] 
[10] This wife of Prasutagus and queen of the Iceni launched a revolt against Rome in East Anglia in 60 
CE. 
ANSWER:  
Boudicca 
 [or  
Boadicea 
 or  
Boudica 
] 
[10] One of the chief sources for Boudicca’s revolt comes from this Roman historian’s  
Romaika 
, a text 
written in Greek originally consisting of 80 books. 
ANSWER:  
Dio 
 Cassius [or Cassius  
Dio 
 or  
Dion 
 Cassius or  
Dio 
 Cocceianus or Lucius Cassius  
Dio 
] 
094-11-30-07212 
13. Thrombosis is a disorder affecting this process which is regulated in part by von Willebrand’s factor. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this process of blood clotting. 
ANSWER:  
coagulation 
 [accept word forms] 
[10] Coagulation can be inhibited by this molecule. A glycosaminoglycan, it has the highest charge density 
of any biological molecule. Low-molecular weight versions like Lovenox are often preferred. 
ANSWER:  
heparin 
[10] Heparin manufactured in China was founded to have been contaminated with this compound 
consisting of alternating glucaronic acid and N-acetylgalactosamine groups. Found in a sulfated form, it is a 
major component of cartilage where it absorbs shock. 
ANSWER:  
chondroitin 
 sulfate 
064-11-30-07213 
14. Name these cities of Washington state, for 10 points each. 
[10] This largest city in Washington is located on a isthmus between the Puget Sound and Lake 
Washington. 
ANSWER:  
Seattle 
[10] This Puget sound city near Mount Rainier is the third largest in the state after Spokane. It was home to 
a 1940 bridge that lasted four months before collapsing in a textbook example of forced resonance. 
ANSWER:  
Tacoma 
[10] This city in the southwest forms a metro-area with Portland. It has often entertained resolutions to 
change its name due its larger neighbor to the north. 
ANSWER:  
Vancouver 
015-11-30-07214 
15. The end of this work urges Christ to save us from a death “On the reef of Norman Woe’s”. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this poem that tells of a captain who brings his daughter aboard, only to have her killed in a 
massive storm. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Wreck of the Hesperus 
\" 
[10] In this other poem written by the author of \"The Wreck of the Hesperus,\" the title figure produces 
sounds like a sexton ringing a bell as he works “under a spreading chestnut-tree”. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Village Blacksmith 
\" 
[10] Name this American poet who wrote both \"The Wreck of the Hesperus\" and \"The Village Blacksmith\" 
in addition to  
Evangeline 
. 
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth  
Longfellow 
064-11-30-07215 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. This leader came to power after junta leader Robert Guei barred all opposition leaders from running 
against him. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this world leader who refused to step down after Alassane Ouattara defeated him in a November 
2010 presidential election. 
ANSWER: Laurent Koudou  
Gbagbo 
 (BOG-boe) 
[10] Gbagbo's succession crisis rocked this West African nation, a former French colony. 
ANSWER:  
Ivory Coast 
 [or  
Côte d'Ivoire 
] 
[10] One of Gbagbo's crowning achievements as president was to talk this Chelsea superstar into returning 
to the Ivorian national soccer team. 
ANSWER: Didier Yves  
Drogba 
 Tébily 
026-11-30-07216 
17. This place is home to a group of people known as \"politricksters.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this place, whose name references the Book of Revelation, also naming a term for those who do 
not believe in Jah. 
ANSWER:  
Babylon 
[10] Inhabitants of Babylon are opponents of this religion, which reveres Haile Selassie and sings the 
praises of marijuana use. 
ANSWER:  
Rasta 
farianism 
[10] Rastafarians use this term to describe their diet, whose tenets generally include avoiding pork and 
eating fresh food. 
ANSWER:  
Ital 
 (EYE-tall) [or  
I-tal 
; or  
Di food fula itality 
]] 
026-11-30-07217 
18. A mathematical problem involves making this piece hit each square of the chessboard exactly once. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name the only chess piece that can jump over other pieces. 
ANSWER:  
knight 
[10] In this chess move, a pawn which moves two spaces forward alongside another pawn can be captured 
by that pawn. 
ANSWER:  
En passant 
[10] In chess, a draw is achieved either by stalemate, the fifty move rule, or a when the same position is 
repeated this many times. 
ANSWER:  
three 
015-11-30-07218 
19. Some have proposed using the 178  one of hafnium as a power source or weapon. For 10 points each: 
m2 
[10] Name these metastable excitations of a nucleus. 
ANSWER: nuclear  
isomer 
[10] In a very different type of isomerism, if two identical substituents are on opposite sides of a double 
bond they have this relationship as opposed to cis. 
ANSWER:  
trans 
[10] Since cis and trans are not as easily applicable when more than two types of substituents are around a 
double bond, a notation using these two letters is used. 
ANSWER:  
EZ 
 [accept either order; or  
Entgegen 
 and  
Zusammen 
] 
001-11-30-07219 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. She wrote a historical novel supposing Perkin Warbeck to really have been Richard of Shrewsbury. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Identify this author of  
Lodore 
 and  
The Last Man 
, best known for a work containing characters like the 
ultimately strangled Elizabeth Lavenza. 
ANSWER: Mary  
Shelley 
 [or Mary Wollstonecraft  
Godwin 
] 
[10] Mary Shelley is best known for this work, wherein the title character sees his friend Henry Clerval 
killed by the creature he has created because he refuses to create a female companion for that creature. 
ANSWER:  
Frankenstein : Or, the Modern Prometheus 
[10]  
Frankenstein 
 opens with this character writing letters to his sister Margaret about discovering Victor 
Frankenstein chasing his monster across the ice at the North Pole. 
ANSWER:  
Robert Walton 
   [accept either underlined answer] 
094-11-30-07220 
21. Supporters of this movement were encouraged by the Churchill White Paper and the Balfour 
Declaration. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this movement that supported the establishment of a Jewish homeland. 
ANSWER:  
Zionism 
[10] This Hungarian born Jew was known as the “Father of Zionism” for his work with the movement, 
which included publishing the pamphlet  
The Jewish State 
. 
ANSWER: Theodor  
Herzl 
[10] The Zionist view of Israel as a homeland for all Jews is supported by this law, which gives any 
descendent of Jews the right to move to Israel and gain citizenship. 
ANSWER:  
Law of Return 
015-11-30-07221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 7     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
