NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 TOSSUPS  
1. Rulers of this region were often buried alongside miniature clay figurines in giant keyhole- 
shaped burial mounds. A ruler of this region named King Bu was one of its \"five kings\" who  
were recognized as vassals by the Liu Song Dynasty. The Gwanggaeto Stele records the  
Goguryeo Kingdom's struggle against warriors from here. The  Book of Wei  records that a female  
shaman ruled its kingdom of Yamatai. Chinese sources referred to this region as Wa during its  
Kofun and Yayoi periods. In 663, a fleet from this place was defeated by an alliance between the  
Silla Kingdom and the Tang Dynasty. For 10 points, name this country whose early history is  
recorded in the Nihon Shoki.  
ANSWER:  Japan  [or  Nihon  before it is read; or  Nippon ; or  Wa  before it is read; or  Yamato ;  
prompt on specific regions like “Kyushu” or “Honshu”]  
2. This composer wrote a symphony that can now only officially be performed with special  
narration written by Samuel Pisar. A choral piece by this man includes a part for boy treble or  
countertenor, which is meant to evoke the child David. Before a 1962 performance of Brahms's  
first piano concerto with Glenn Gould, this man asked, \"Who is the boss—the soloist or the  
conductor?\" He wrote his third symphony in honor of the recently murdered John F. Kennedy,  
but it was later revised with new narration about the Holocaust. This composer of the  Kaddish  
Symphony staged a popular series of \"Young People’s Concerts\" where he explained musical  
terms. For 10 points, name this longtime director of the New York Philharmonic and composer  
of  West Side Story .  
ANSWER: Leonard  Bernstein   
3. For a bounded operator on a normed space, this operation on the operator has a solution if the  
Neumann series converges. Of the three objects in the Iwasawa decomposition, the one  
designated K has the property that this operation is equal to the transpose of K. The equivalency  
class of an object in a group is defined by flanking the element with two elements of the group  
that are related by this operation. The Cayley-Hamilton theorem can be used to compute this  
operation for a matrix, and the existence of a solution to this operation can be shown by proving  
that the determinant is nonzero. For 10 points, name this operation that, for a matrix, returns  
another matrix that multiplies the first matrix to return the identity matrix.  
ANSWER: finding the  inverse  [or  inverting ; or obvious equivalents]  
4. One male character remembers this woman's arms while hugging a snowy rowan tree. At a  
Christmas party hosted by the Sventitskys, this woman accidentally shoots the wrong man. This  
woman works as a governess for a girl named Lipa a few years after her mother Amalia  
committed suicide by drinking iodine. This character flees from Varykino while Tonya's husband  
stays there. Her fraught relationship with the lawyer Komarovsky is eventually supplanted by a  
marriage to Pasha Antipov, who starts calling himself Strelnikov during the Bolshevik  
revolution. For 10 points, name this woman loved by Yuri in Pasternak's  Doctor Zhivago.   
ANSWER:  Lara  [or  Larissa  Fyodorovna Guichard; or  Lara  Antipova; or  Larochka ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 TOSSUPS  
5. A Maysles documentary describes a rancher's experience sleeping beside an artwork by this  
man. Cologne Harbor was the site of an early artwork by this man titled  Dockside Packages.  For  
decades, this man tried to gain permission from the United Arab Emirates to build the stacked- 
oil-barrel sculpture  Mastaba.  This man created several large, inflatable indoor installations  
known as  Air Packages.  He used saffron-colored fabric to construct 7,503 structures in Central  
Park in his project  The Gates,  which, like virtually all of his work, was performed in  
collaboration with his Moroccan-born French wife Jean-Claude. For 10 points, name this  
Bulgarian mononymic artist who is best known for his part in wrapping the Reichstag.  
ANSWER:  Christo  Vladimirov Javacheff [or Christo Vladimirov  Javacheff ]  
6. This man argues that political stability results from a triumph over neopotism and cronyism in  
2011's  The Origins of Political Order.  This man examined the \"renorming\" of society following  
the tumultuous events of the 1960s in another book, and also expressed concern that overuse of  
biotechnology may destroy human nature. This author of  The Great Disruption  and  Our  
Posthuman Future  read a speech by Mikhail Gorbechev saying that the essence of socialism is  
competition, inspiring him to write and article and book which argued that nationalism and  
fundamentalism were the only two remaining adversaries of liberal democracy following the  
defeat of fascism and communism. For 10 points, name this political theorist who wrote  The End  
of History and the Last Man.   
ANSWER: Francis  Fukuyama   
7. One person with this occupation is described as having hair that \"curled like a lamb's back\"  
before it was shaved off. Another of these people criticizes adults who \"are gone to praise God  
and his priest and King\" at Church. The former of these people envisions an angel coming down  
with a key to open up \"coffins of black\" and concludes, \"If all do their duty, they need not fear  
harm.\" The latter person with this occupation is described as a \"little black thing among the  
snow\" in a poem whose cry, \"'weep! 'weep!\" echoes its companion poem in  Songs of Innocence.  
For 10 points, name these subjects of two William Blake poems, children who worked as slave  
labor in a hazardous occupation emblematic of the Industrial Revolution.  
ANSWER:  chimney sweeps  [or  chimney sweepers ]  
8. In a 2003  American Photograph  cover, actress Julianne Moore poses in the manner of the  
woman in this painting. The Guerrilla Girls obscured the head of this painting's subject with a  
gorilla mask in a poster asking, \"Do women have to be naked to get into the Met. museum?\"  
Between white and golden-brown cloth in this painting lies an enormous set of pearls. The  
subject of this painting adopts the pose of the model in  Portrait of Madame Recamier , which was  
made by the teacher of this painting's artist. The title woman of this painting holds a peacock- 
feather fan, has set aside a hashish pipe next to a blue curtain, and has several extra vertebrae.  
For 10 points, name this Jean-Auguste Ingres painting of a lounging Turkish concubine.  
ANSWER:  La Grande  Odalisque  [or  Une  Odalisque ; or  Grand  Odalisque ; or  Great  Odalisque ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 TOSSUPS  
9. In one of this author’s plays, a land deed framed on the wall repeatedly falls to the ground,  
foreshadowing its eventual loss. That play ends with Wangeci and Kiguunda losing their land  
after Kioi breaks off his son’s engagement to their daughter. In an essay, this author denounced  
the use of English by African writers, arguing that it was a “cultural bomb,” but continued to  
translate his new novels into English. He was imprisoned for his play  I Will Marry When I Want,  
and he described the murder of District Officer Robson in a novel about the traitor Mugo. For 10  
points, name this Kenyan author of “Decolonising the Mind” and  A Grain of Wheat.   
ANSWER:  Ngugi  wa Thiong’o [or James  Ngugi ]  
10. The superoxide of this element is used in submarines to scrub carbon dioxide from the air  
and create oxygen gas. This element's bromide was once used to counter overactive libido.  
Although it is not magnesium or chlorine, this element is found in carnallite. The antibiotic  
valinomycin selectively binds this cation. This element is the cation in a very strong oxidizing  
agent where the manganese atom has a plus seven oxidation state, which is this element’s  
permanganate. The decay of isotope 40 of this atom to argon is used to date some very old rocks.  
For 10 points, name this third alkali metal after lithium and sodium, which is supposedly found  
in large amounts in bananas.  
ANSWER:  potassium  [prompt on  ]  K 
11. Laura Christian created a Facebook group for people affected by this company. The head of  
this company promised \"when we have answers, we will be fully transparent with you, with our  
regulators, and with our customers.\" Claire McCaskill claimed this company was trying to \"play  
whack-a-mole\" with lawsuits, while Barbara Boxer told its CEO that \"you don't know anything  
about anything\" after an acrimonious round of testimony before a Congressional subcommittee  
by CEO Mary Barra. In 2014, this company recalled millions of its products when it was  
revealed that ignition switches could shut off engines and prevent airbags from inflating. For 10  
points, name this Detroit based automobile company that makes the Chevy Cobalt.  
ANSWER:  General Motors  [or  GM ; prompt on  Chevrolet  or  Chevy  until \"Chevy\" is read]  
12. After these people fell from power, a family whose crest showed a black-and-gold bullseye,  
the Albizzi family, established its rule. This faction was excluded from membership in the Arte  
della Lana. This group gave more power to Salvestro di Medici after it got Michele di Lando  
installed as  gonfaloniere  of justice. Members of this group were attacked by the butchers' guild  
during their occupation of the Plaza della Signoria. These people staged the most effective  
insurrection among the  popolo minuto  against guild power in their city, though their influence  
was driven out by 1382. For 10 points, name these disaffected wool-carders who revolted in  
early Renaissance Florence.  
ANSWER:  Ciompi 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 TOSSUPS  
13. This leader had a secretary crucified for selling some golden vessels after the capture of  
Sirmium. Unlike his brother, this man was not amused by a stuttering Moorish dwarf named  
Zerkon and had him sent away from court. During one battle, the troops of Sangiban were placed  
in the center to prevent their defection to this man. His successor lost the Battle of Nedao, and,  
according to Priscus, he received the “Sword of Mars” from a shepherd. This leader may have  
died of a nosebleed while celebrating his wedding. He assumed sole kingship after the death of  
his brother Bleda and had his invasion of Gaul thwarted by Flavius Aetius at the battle of  
Chalons. For 10 points, name this leader who was allegedly turned back from Rome by Leo I, a  
“Scourge of God” and leader of the Huns.  
ANSWER:  Attila  the Hun [or  Scourge of God  until it is read; or  Flagellum Dei  until \"Scourge  
of God\" is read]  
14. This religion prohibited ritually killing personas-non-grata known as \"sacred men,\" a taboo  
explored in a philosophical study by Giorgio Agamben. A euphemistic term meaning \"the gods  
below\" is applied to the gods of death in this religion, who were worshiped outside the sacred  
boundary of this religion's center. The divination of the livers of sacrificed animals in this  
religion is termed haruspicy. Adherents of this religion worship household deities named  lares  
(LAH-rayz). Masters switched roles with their slaves on a popular festival day from this religion,  
and it counted among its clergy an order of women who took a vow of chastity to tend a hearth's  
eternal fire. For 10 points, name this polytheistic religion whose practitioners worshiped Vesta  
and Jupiter.  
ANSWER: the state religion of ancient  Rome  [or  Roman  religion; prompt on  pagan ism]  
15. Solicitor General Neal Katyal discovered that his predecessor, Charles Fahy, suppressed  
evidence in a Supreme Court case against one of these people, that was written by K.D. Ringle.  
\"Go for broke\" was the motto of a regiment entirely made up of these people, one of whose  
members was awarded the Medal of Honor after losing his right arm while attacking the Gothic  
line. Dorothea Lange’s photographs of these people were impounded and classified by the U.S.  
government. Frank Murphy wrote a scathing dissent against a ruling that placed greater  
importance on protection against wartime espionage than the rights of these people. For 10  
points, identify this people who include Daniel Inouye and Fred Korematsu, who were placed in  
internment camps during World War II.  
ANSWER:  Japanese-Americans  [or  issei , or  nisei ]  
16. This man found a chest full of treasure by telling his master to dig at the spot where he  
dropped a hat. This man tricked Rhun into cutting off a maid's finger to try to prove he had slept  
with a noblewoman. While skating, he fell into a trance and saw the son of Gwyddno in a  
dungeon. This man inadvertently foiled a woman's attempt to bless her ugly son Morfran. He  
won a horse race against King Maelgwn with Dobbin, thus helping out his master Elphin, who  
caught this man while fishing for salmon in a weir. He gained his ability by swallowing three  
drops of a potion, after which Ceridwen ate this man when he turned into a grain. For 10 points,  
name this mythical bard named for the phrase meaning \"shining brow\" in Welsh.  
ANSWER:  Taliesin  [accept  Gwion  Bach] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 TOSSUPS  
17. Acoustic impedance is the ratio between this quantity and the product of velocity and the  
surface area. One type of this quantity scales with the electron number density raised to the five- 
thirds in the classical limit, but density raised to the four-thirds in the relativistic limit. Dividing  
Poynting's vector by the speed of light gives another form of this quantity. The partial derivative  
of this quantity with respect to density is the speed of sound squared. This scalar quantity is  
defined to be the negative average of the normal stresses in a fluid. Multiplying fluid density,  
gravitational acceleration, and height gives the hydrostatic form of it, which is often measured in  
torr, or millimeters of mercury. For 10 points, name this quantity equal to force divided by area.  
ANSWER:  pressure  [or  radiation pressure ; or  hydrostatic pressure ; or electron  degeneracy  
pressure ; or  sound pressure ]  
18. The fashion designer Ruth Harkness brought back the first live one of these animals to the  
United States. The only two of these animals found in the Southern Hemisphere are at the  
Adelaide Zoo, with the female being named Funi. The World Wildlife Fund helped set up the  
Wolong National Nature Reserve to protect these endangered animals. A pair of musk oxen was  
sent to another country by the American President after the U.S. received two of these animals in  
1972. Its \"thumb\" was the subject of an essay collection by Stephen Jay Gould. This animal,  
which mostly lives in mountain ranges in the Sichuan province, has a diet that is over ninety-nine  
percent bamboo. For 10 points, name this bear native to China, which has black patches around  
its eyes.  
ANSWER: giant  panda  [do not accept \"red panda\"]  
19. A monophosphorylated version of this substance is used to treat orotic aciduria. This  
chemical’s 5-bromo, 2-deoxy version is a common label to assay cell cycle progression in flow  
cytometry, and its 5-fluoro version is an antimetabolite. During glycogen synthesis, glucose  
monomers are conjugated to a derivative of this molecule, which acts as a carrier. A polymer of  
this substance was used by Marshall Nirenberg and Heinrich Matthaei in a classic experiment  
that produced a polymer of phenylalanine, which showed that the codon for phenylalanine was  
three of this nucleotide. For 10 points, name this nucleobase which is unique to RNA and forms  
base pairs with adenine.  
ANSWER:  uracil  [or  uridine ; accept  UMP UDP ,  , or  UTP ]  
20. This play's author revised it in the 1980s, adding the \"Costazuela brothers\" and changing  
mentions of poker to Trivial Pursuit. Characters in this play massage the neck of a man who  
downed a bottle of sleeping pills, and the third act begins with the throwing of a plate of linguini  
against the kitchen wall. A character informs his wife he will kill himself using a suicide  
telegram, plays poker with Murray the cop, and leaves annoying little notes signed \"F.U.\" This  
play ends with the revelation that one of the title duo has now moved in with the Pigeon sisters.  
For 10 points, name this play in which the neat freak Felix Ungar moves in with a sloppy  
sportswriter named Oscar Madison, a work of Neil Simon.  
ANSWER:  The  Odd Couple 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 TOSSUPS  
21. John Adams used turbidites, deposited by synchronous turbidity currents, to determine that  
this geologic zone erupts in an earthquake around every 590 years, plus or minus 170. Unusually,  
this region is buffeted by triple junctions at both its north and south end: the Queen Charlotte  
Fault and Explorer Ridge to the north, and the Mendocino Triple Junction to the south, where it  
meets the Gorda plate. Unlike the nearby San Andreas fault, this region is capable of producing a  
9.0+ magnitude megathrust earthquake colloquially dubbed the coming \"Big One\". This region is  
formed by the Juan de Fuca plate being subducted underneath the North American plate. For 10  
points, name this region in the Pacific Northwest named for a nearby mountain chain that  
includes Mount St. Helens and Mount Rainier.  
ANSWER:  Cascadia subduction zone  [or  CSZ ; or  Cascadia subduction margin ; or  Cascadia  
fault ; prompt on Pacific  Northwest  or  Ring of Fire ]  
22. A novel about these professionals was informed by a research trip to Denain, at  
Valenciennes, and describes a white pony named Bataille helping these people. A village known  
only by the number 240 houses a family whose income is earned from this job in a novel  
featuring the anarchist Souvarine. A girl named Catherine is stalked by a worker in this  
profession named Chaval at Montsou. A worker in this job named Maheu befriends the rookie  
Etienne Lantier, who gives these people socialist ideas in a novel from the  Rougon-Macquart  
cycle. For 10 points, name these workers who go on strike in Emile Zola's  Germinal.  
ANSWER:  coal  miner s  
23. The Supreme Court case regarding this action featured a tripartite framework for resolving  
disputes concerning overlapping powers between Congress and the President in the concurrence  
of Justice Jackson. The plaintiffs in that case were represented by the Democratic candidate for  
President in 1924, John W. Davis. This action was precipitated by a refusal to follow the Wage  
Stabilization Board's wage increase recommendation. The President who performed this action  
could have instead used the eighty day \"cooling-off period.\" For 10 points, identify this action  
performed by President Truman that was ruled unconstitutional by  Youngstown Sheet and Tube  
Co. v. Sawyer .  
ANSWER: President Harry S. Truman's  seizure of the steel mills  [accept clear equivalents;  
accept the issuing of  Executive Order 10340  before it is read] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 BONUSES  
1. Fifteen percent of this city was devoted to a large district of shipyards and armories called the  
Arsenal. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Italian city whose merchants traded with the Ottomans to bring Asiatic goods  
into the Mediterranean. It consists of a set of islands linked by canals.  
ANSWER:  Venice  [or  Venezia ]  
[10] During this celebration, Venetians disguise themselves in masks like the Bauta and the  
Plague Doctor. This celebration ends right before Lent.  
ANSWER: Venetian  Carnival  [or  Carnevale  di Venezia]  
[10] Venetian guilds were dominant in the production of this good, to which its foundries on  
Murano were dedicated.  
ANSWER:  glass ware  
2. Answer the following about Oscar winning documentaries, for 10 points each.  
[10] This director said, \"Shame on you, Mr. Bush!\", after winning an Oscar for his film  Bowling  
for Columbine . This corpulent fellow also directed  Fahrenheit 9/11  and  Sicko .  
ANSWER: Michael  Moore   
[10] This 2008 Oscar-winning film chronicles Philippe Petit's walk between the Twin Towers of  
the World Trade Center in 1974.  
ANSWER:  Man on Wire   
[10] Barbara Kopple won an Oscar for her 1976 film  Harlan County, USA,  which chronicled one  
of these events in Kentucky. She also covered one of these events in Austin, Minnesota, in the  
film  American Dream .  
ANSWER:  strike s [or equivalent answers such as  labor dispute s]  
3. This book introduced a concept of \"the veil\" which its author later used in  Darkwater,  and  
includes a section on \"Sorrow Songs\" once sung in the fields. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this book which also pioneers the idea that its subject people always see themselves  
through others' eyes, via \"double consciousness.\"  
ANSWER:  The Souls of Black Folk   
[10] W.E.B. DuBois, the author of  The Souls of Black Folk , also proposed this compendium of  
black knowledge, a reference book which others finished in 1999.  
ANSWER:  Encyclopedia Africana   
[10] This Harvard historian of Africa and African-Americans completed the  Encyclopedia  
Africana  with Kwame Anthony Appiah. He had a \"beer summit\" with police and Barack Obama  
after being arrested unlocking his own front door.  
ANSWER: Henry Louis  Gates , Jr. 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 BONUSES  
4. Chamberland first iterated the fractal that arises from this conjecture. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this conjecture which, if true, will mean that the hailstone sequence of numbers  
obtained by halving or adding one to three times the previous number will always result in one.  
ANSWER:  Collatz  conjecture [or  Ulam  conjecture; or  Kakutani 's problem; or  Thwaites  
conjecture; or  Hasse 's algorithm; or  Syracuse  problem]  
[10] The sequence for which the Collatz conjecture holds is a subset of this set of numbers, the  
ordinary counting numbers, for which the Peano axioms give a formal theory.  
ANSWER:  natural  numbers  
[10] The Collatz conjecture can be visualized with a \"directed\", or \"di\", version of these  
constructs.  
ANSWER:  graph   
5. In the  Iliad,  this wise general acts as the chief advisor of the Greeks. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this hero who became the king of an island after Heracles killed the rest of his family.  
ANSWER:  Nestor   
[10] Nestor ruled this city of \"sandy shores\" that Telemachus visits in the  Odyssey .  
ANSWER:  Pylos   
[10] At the funeral games of Patroclus, Nestor gives futile advice to his this son of his on how to  
win a chariot race. After the events of the  Iliad , this hero is killed by Memnon, whom Achilles  
kills in revenge for his death.  
ANSWER:  Antilochus   
6. Evidence for the existence of this stuff include mass discrepancies in the Coma cluster  
measured by Fritz Zwicky, and galaxies are surrounded by a halo of this substance. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this invisible substance that comprises approximately 26% of the universe. WIMPs  
are an example of it.  
ANSWER:  dark matter   
[10] This is the adjective used to describe dark matter whose particles move slowly compared to  
the speed of light.  
ANSWER:  cold   
[10] This researcher, a colleague of Kent Ford, was the first to hint at the existence of dark  
matter by measuring abnormal galaxy rotation curves.  
ANSWER: Vera  Rubin   
7. A solution of this compound and nitric acid can dissolve gold, a solution known as aqua regia.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this diatomic acid, the primary constituent of gastric acid in the stomach.  
ANSWER:  hydrochloric  acid  
[10] This process, which produces soda ash, replaced the Leblanc process because it lacked  
hydrochloric acid as a byproduct.  
ANSWER:  Solvay  process  
[10] Hydrochloric acid can be used in this process that removes oxides from the surfaces of  
metals by removing a thin layer on the top. It differs from passivation in that no metal is  
removed.  
ANSWER: metal  pickling  [or  chemical descaling ; prompt on  descaling ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 BONUSES  
8.  During this war, forces under the command of Jean-Baptiste Hertel de Rouville carried out  
the Deerfield Raid in Massachusetts. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this colonial conflict, the North American theater of the War of the Spanish  
Succession.  
ANSWER:  Queen Anne's  War  
[10] Queen Anne's War was the second in a series of colonial conflicts between Britain and  
France, culminating in this 1754-63 war whose end was followed by the Proclamation of 1763.  
ANSWER:  French and Indian  War [or  Seven Years'  War]  
[10] The Penobscot and Mik'maq were two component tribes of this American Indian and First  
Peoples confederacy that often allied with the French during those colonial wars.  
ANSWER:  Wabanaki  Confederacy  
9. This character uses a pair of scissors to murder the “King of Ward Three.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this character from a novel who feigns having a disability and ends up in an asylum  
with many other characters. She is called beautiful by the “girl with dark glasses.”  
ANSWER: the  doctor’s wife  [or the  ophthalmologist’s wife ]  
[10] The doctor’s wife is a character in this novel in which the title epidemic rips through an  
unnamed city.  
ANSWER:  Blindness  [or  Ensaio sobre a cegueira ]  
[10] The author of  Blindness,  Jose Saramago, hails from this European country. He described his  
home peninsula breaking off from the rest of Europe in the  The Stone Raft.   
ANSWER:  Portugal   
10. This virus can infect dendritic cells via the DC-SIGN receptor, and also uses CCR5 to infect  
another cell type. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this virus, whose integrase enzyme is inhibited by Isentress. This virus infects and  
destroys helper T-cells, which in turn causes AIDS.  
ANSWER:  HIV  [or  Human Immunodeficiency Virus ]  
[10] People with AIDS often suffer from opportunistic infections caused by this set of  
organisms, which includes  Pneumocystis jiroveci  and  Aspergillus niger.  Echinocandins and  
amphotericin B are often used to treat infections caused by them.  
ANSWER:  fungi   
[10] This fungus can cause a chronic infection in immunocompromised people, but is more well- 
known for causing both thrush and yeast infections.  
ANSWER:  Candida  albicans  [or  C. albicans ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 BONUSES  
11. A text written for this type of person calls him a “doomed man” who must inhabit the world  
“with only one purpose-to destroy it.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this type of person, for whom Sergei Nechaev wrote a guide. He partly names a party  
that grew out of the Populist movement.  
ANSWER: the  Revolutionary  [or  Revolutionist ]  
[10] While in prison, Nechaev was in contact with the People's Will, the group responsible for  
the assassination of this tsar. This man established the zemstvo system of local rule and  
emancipated the serfs.  
ANSWER:  Alexander II   
[10] Nechaev sometimes worked with this other Russian anarchist. This man led a faction of the  
First International in opposition to Karl Marx, who eventually got this man thrown out.  
ANSWER: Mikhail  Bakunin   
12. Answer the following about executions caught on film for 10 points each.  
[10] During the Tet Offensive in this war, Nguyen Van Lam’s execution in the street at the hands  
of General Loan was caught on film by journalist Eddie Adams, who later regretted filming it.  
ANSWER: The  Vietnam  War  
[10] Samuel Doe’s torture at the hands of Prince Johnson’s forces was filmed in 1990. Doe was  
the leader of this African country, once led by William Tubman.  
ANSWER: Republic of  Liberia   
[10] Adnan Menderes, the Prime Minister of this country, had his hanging filmed in 1960.  
Menderes and Celal Bayar formed the Democratic Party in this country, which opposed the  
Republican People’s Party.  
ANSWER: Republic of  Turkey   
13. In this short story, the Evil One convinces the title baker to pour a bucket of urine in the  
town's bread as revenge, but he doesn't go through with it. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this short story in which Elka has six children out of wedlock and only tells her  
gullible husband that they aren't his on her deathbed.  
ANSWER: \" Gimpel the Fool \" [or \" Gimpel tam \"]  
[10] This American author's translation of \"Gimpel the Fool\" introduced Isaac Bashevis Singer's  
Yiddish stories to a wider public. He wrote about a divorced Jewish professor in  Herzog.   
ANSWER: Saul  Bellow   
[10] Singer also wrote about Yasha Mazur, a member of this profession who hopes to leave  
Lublin. In a Thomas Mann novella, one of these people named Cipolla is killed by Mario.  
ANSWER: stage  magician s [or  escape artist s; or  hypnotist s] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 BONUSES  
14. A disturbing echo causes Mrs. Moore to leave this location before Dr. Aziz takes offense at  
being asked whether he has more than one wife. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this fictional natural landmark accessed by train from Chandrapore, where Adela  
Quested alleges that Dr. Aziz raped her.  
ANSWER:  Marabar  caves  
[10] This author of  Where Angels Fear to Tread  and the homoerotic novel  Maurice  wrote about  
the Marabar caves in his  A Passage to India.   
ANSWER: E. M.  Forster   
[10] This two-word phrase is used repeatedly by Margaret Schlegel in Forster's novella  Howards  
End  to express her desire for meaningful relationships between persons.  
ANSWER: \" Only connect ...\"  
15. This man described how \"absolute spirit\" manifests itself through the workings of history in  
his  Lectures on the Philosophy of History.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this German who theorized that the \"weltgeist\" is a driving force in the world.  
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich  Hegel   
[10] In  The Phenomenology of Spirit,  Hegel outlined this process, in which a thesis gives rise to  
an antithesis, then both annihilate one another to form a synthesis.  
ANSWER: Hegelian  dialectic   
[10] This book denounces both Hegel and \"the spell of Plato\" for underpinning modern  
totalitarian thought. This book inspired the name of an \"institute\" funded by George Soros.  
ANSWER:  The  Open Society and its Enemies   
16. This composer paid tribute to an actress who died in a cycling accident, and not to a Greek  
goddess, in his  Song for Athene.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this recently-deceased British composer who tasked the cello and orchestra with  
depicting eight icons of the Virgin Mary in his piece  The Protecting Veil.   
ANSWER: John Kenneth  Tavener   
[10] Tavener composed  The Protecting Veil  for the Proms, an annual summer concert series  
sponsored by this company, whose symphony orchestra performs at the Barbican Center and was  
long-directed by Adrian Boult.  
ANSWER:  BBC  [or  British Broadcasting Corporation ]  
[10]  The Protecting Veil  is one of several of Tavener's pieces reflecting this faith, to which he  
converted in 1977. Rachmaninov's  All-Night Vigil  and an \"Easter Festival Overture\" by Rimsky- 
Korsakov draw on the liturgy of this Christian denomination.  
ANSWER:  Russian Orthodox  Church [prompt on Eastern  Orthodox  Church] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 BONUSES  
17. In this place, it is Sunday seven days a week, clover is in season all year round, and linseed  
cake grows on hedges. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this locale which is up in the clouds. Moses the raven, an old pet of Mr. Jones, talks  
frequently about this locale without working, much to the chagrin of the pigs.  
ANSWER:  Sugarcandy Mountain   
[10] Tales of Sugarcandy Mountain distract the barnyard creatures in this George Orwell novella,  
an allegory for Stalinism.  
ANSWER:  Animal Farm   
[10] A plan to build one of these machines to ease the animals' labor leads Napoleon to chase his  
pig rival Snowball from Animal Farm with dogs.  
ANSWER: a  windmill   
18. An abandoned red couch that was brought into this place by Billy Name became a popular  
place for meth-addled guests to crash overnight. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this New York City studio, home to a coterie of \"superstars,\" that John Cale described  
as an artistic assembly line to produce the silkscreens of an American artist.  
ANSWER: The Silver  Factory   
[10] The Factory was the studio of this Pop Artist, who produced such silkscreens as  Marilyn  
Diptych  and  100 Coke Bottles .  
ANSWER: Andy  Warhol  [or Andrew  Warhola ]  
[10] Until  Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster)  sold for $105 million in 2013, this assonantly- 
titled silkscreen painting, whose cowboy gear-clad subjects converge toward the right, was  
Warhol's most expensive.  
ANSWER:  Eight Elvises   
19. This technique is contrasted with polemics, and can be divided into classical, evidential,  
cumulative case, and presuppositional methods. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this theological field that attempts to expound Christianity rationally, defending it  
from attacks, while attacking the flaws of other religious world views.  
ANSWER: Christian  apologetics   
[10] This Swiss theologian noted that apologizing \"is meaningless, because the Gospel is the  
victory by which the world is overcome.\" His major opus is the unfinished thirteen-volume  
Church Dogmatics.   
ANSWER: Karl  Barth   
[10] Barth's influence as a theologian often draws comparison to the influence of this  
Scholasticist, the author of  Summa Contra Gentiles  and  Summa Theologica.   
ANSWER: Saint  Thomas Aquinas  [or  Thomas of Aquin o; or  Doctor Angelicus ; or  Doctor  
Communis ; or  Doctor Universalis ; prompt on  Thomas ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 3 BONUSES  
20. Answer the following about a strange geographical site, for 10 points each.  
[10] This country is home to a natural gas field called the \"Door to Hell\" because its fires have  
been burning continuously since 1971, when it was lit by Soviet scientists. That field is located  
in this country's Ahal Province.  
ANSWER:  Turkmenistan  [or  Turkmenia ]  
[10] This desert, whose name means \"Black Sand\" in Turkic, is where the \"Door to Hell\" is  
located and takes up seventy percent of the area of Turkmenistan.  
ANSWER:  Karakum  Desert [or  Gara Gum  Desert; do not accept “Karakorum”]  
[10] The Door to Hell should not be confused with the urban legend about drilling a \"well into  
Hell\" that supposedly took place in this modern day country's territory of Siberia.  
ANSWER:  Russia   
21. This character claims that the “highest female grace is silence” while Lady Would-Be speaks  
to him. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this wealthy Venetian who pretends to be mortally ill with the help of his servant  
Mosca.  
ANSWER:  Volpone   
[10] Volpone was created by this Elizabethan playwright also known for  The Alchemist  and  
Bartholomew Fair.   
ANSWER: Ben  Jonson   
[10] Volpone is also served by a dwarf, a eunuch, and a person of this type. This person is said to  
be a reincarnation of Pythagoras and a mule, among other things.  
ANSWER: a  hermaphrodite  [or  Androgyno ] 
