2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 1 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. With an Italian colleague, this mathematician names the constant that is the difference between the 
harmonic series and the natural logarithm. He names a line which connects a circumcenter, centroid, and 
orthocenter. The summation of one over n-factorial from n equals zero to infinity converges to his 
namesake number. That number raised to the i times pi power is equal to negative one. For 10 points, 
identify this Swiss mathematician whose number is the base of the natural logarithm function. 
ANSWER: Leonard  
Euler 
189-13-74-01101 
2. In a price-versus-quantity graph of this market structure, the point at which marginal cost equals average 
revenue occurs at the right side of a triangle that represents a deadweight loss to consumer surplus. When 
extremely high barriers to entry are present, such as in telephone or water distribution networks, the 
\"natural\" form of this structure arises. For 10 points, identify this microeconomic structure which occurs 
when a market has only one seller. 
ANSWER:  
monopoly 
019-13-74-01102 
3. This poet was inspired by the rhyme scheme of the Finnish epic  
Kalevala 
 for a poem featuring the West 
Wind’s seduction of Nokomis’s daughter. He brought Homeric dactylic hexameter into English for a poem 
titled for Gabriel Lajeunesse’s Cajun lover. This author of  
Evangeline 
 also wrote about a native prince who 
loves Minnehaha, and the hanging of lamps at the Old North Church. For 10 points, name this American 
poet of  
The Song of Hiawatha 
 and “Paul Revere's Ride.\" 
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth  
Longfellow 
104-13-74-01103 
4. Italy and Romania disastrously entered the First World War just before this country's 1915 and 1916 
offensives failed. This country's army made a Great Retreat after losing at Gorlice-Tarnow 
(gor-LICH-tar-now). Its forces destroyed the Austro-Hungarian Army as a fighting force during the 
Brusilov Offensive. This country was defeated at Tannenberg when it opened Germany's Eastern front. For 
10 points, name this country that exited World War I after the overthrow of Nicholas II, its final tsar. 
ANSWER:  
Russia 
n Empire [do not accept or prompt on \"USSR\" or \"Soviet Union\"] 
153-13-74-01104 
5. In 2010, members of this organization placed Adrian Schoolcraft in a mental hospital after Schoolcraft 
released undercover tapes. In October 2011, a union representing members of this organization protested 
when sixteen of its members were charged in a “ticket-fixing” scandal. In 2012, a member of this 
organization, Gilberto Valle (vye-EY), was accused of plotting to kidnap and eat women. For 10 points, 
name this 34,000-member organization which is led by Ray Kelly and patrols in Brooklyn and Manhattan. 
ANSWER: the  
NYPD 
 [or  
New York 
 City  
Police Department 
] 
019-13-74-01105 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  1 of 9 
6. The presence of this phenomenon causes an 11-cis isomer to become all-trans, causing transducin to 
break down cGMP by action of rhodopsin. In plants, a cycle dependent on this phenomenon occurs at the 
stroma and thylakoid membrane, while another which doesn’t require it uses RuBisCO. Exposure to this 
form of radiation inhibits melatonin and helps trigger vitamin D synthesis. For 10 points, name this 
electromagnetic radiation in the visible spectrum. 
ANSWER: visible sun 
light 
 [prompt on  
photon 
s] 
104-13-74-01106 
7. This leader's \"Swing Around the Circle\" was a public speaking tour during which he was often drunk. 
This Democrat caused a crisis by attempting to appoint Lorenzo Thomas to the Cabinet. He succeeded to 
one office after replacing Hannibal Hamlin. After this President violated the Tenure of Office Act, the 
Radical Republicans challenged his view of Reconstruction by impeaching him. For 10 points, name this 
man who became President after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Johnson 
104-13-74-01107 
8. The Japanese noun \"sunahama\" is often translated as this English word, though it is more common in 
Japanese to use a word that literally refers to another place, the metonym \"umi,\" to refer to these things. 
Many Romance languages trace their word for this place to a Latin noun meaning \"stripe.\" In Russian, this 
place is called a \"plyazh\" (PLOSH), and it is \"la plage\" (PLOJ) in French and \"la playa\" (PLIE-uh) in 
Spanish. For 10 points, identify this place which might be found near \"la mer\" or \"the sea.\" 
ANSWER: “ 
beach 
” 
019-13-74-01108 
9. A predecessor to this play, probably written by Thomas Kyd, has been lost, and is referred to as its \"Ur\" 
version. T. S. Eliot wrote an essay about the \"problems\" of this play's protagonist, which calls this play an 
\"artistic failure.\" Ernest Jones wrote a psychoanalytic critique emphasizing the embodiment of the Oedipus 
complex in its title character's relationship with his uncle Claudius and his mother Gertrude. For 10 points, 
name this tragedy whose title prince wonders, \"To be, or not to be.\" 
ANSWER:  
Hamlet 
192-13-74-01109 
10. This war's result was deemed too little by Albert Beveridge's \"March of the Flag\" speech. During this 
war, Leonard Wood was suddenly promoted to brigadier general. Charles Gridley received the command 
\"You may fire when ready\" in this war. The Teller Amendment was passed before this war, in which 
Commodore George Dewey won the Battle of Manila Bay. For 10 points, name this 1898 war, started after 
the sinking of the USS  
Maine, 
 in which the US invaded the Philippines and Cuba. 
ANSWER:  
Spanish-American 
 War 
104-13-74-01110 
11. The shape of the namesake curve of these objects is independent of temperature, according to Wien's 
(VEENS) displacement law. The fact that the Rayleigh-Jeans law describing them fails at high frequencies 
led to the ultraviolet catastrophe. That catastrophe regarding these objects was resolved by a law that took 
into account the fact that only certain wavelengths can be emitted, Planck's law. For 10 points, name these 
objects which absorb all incident electromagnetic radiation. 
ANSWER:  
blackbodies 
 [or a  
blackbody 
] 
024-13-74-01111 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  2 of 9 
12. One character in this novel tells the protagonist not to \"struggle so like a wild, frantic bird, that is 
rending its own plumage in its desperation.\" That same protagonist is locked in the \"red room,\" and other 
characters in this novel include Helen Burns and Bertha Mason, the latter of whom burns down Thornfield 
Manor. Its title character ultimately marries Edward Rochester. For 10 points, identify this Victorian novel 
by Charlotte Bronte. 
ANSWER:  
Jane Eyre 
189-13-74-01112 
13. This person was said to have a thigh made of gold, and he advocated arbitrary restrictions such as 
always putting on one's right shoe first and never eating beans. The central tenet of his philosophy was 
\"metempsychosis,\" the idea that one’s soul migrates into other beings after death. He ordered the murder of 
Hippasus for proposing irrational numbers, which contradicted his math-based philosophy. For 10 points, 
identify this pre-Socratic thinker who discovered a namesake theorem about triangles. 
ANSWER:  
Pythagoras 
019-13-74-01113 
14. This campaign started after Raynald of Chantillon's beheading and Guy of Lusignan's capture at the 
Battle of Hattin. Leopold V of Austria left this campaign after his standard was cast down following a 
victory at a double siege. After Acre (AH-ker) fell, Philip II of France also left, leaving another commander 
in this campaign to win at Arsuf and sign a treaty allowing pilgrims to visit a Muslim-held Jerusalem. For 
10 points, name this crusade in which Saladin fought Richard Lionheart. 
ANSWER:  
Third 
 Crusade 
153-13-74-01114 
15. The grammarian Servius wrote a commentary on this poet's works, which incude a four-book farming 
manual in epic meter, the  
Georgics. 
 Christians believed he foretold the coming of the Messiah in the fourth 
of his  
Eclogues. 
 The hero of his most famous poem reaches Carthage after a frightening storm, where he 
meets Queen Dido. In that poem, Juno conspires to stop a Trojan prince from becoming the ancestor of the 
Romans. For 10 points, name this ancient Roman poet of the  
Aeneid. 
ANSWER:  
Vergil 
 [or Publius  
Vergil 
ius Maro] 
080-13-74-01115 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 1 
Directed Round 
1A.  What 2012 game for the Nintendo 3DS allows players to summon in-game characters by placing real 
action figures on the “Portal of Power?” 
ANSWER:  
Skylanders : Spyro's Adventure 
1B.  In what novel by Gunter Grass does Oskar Matzerath stop growing at age three? 
ANSWER:  
The  Tin Drum 
 [or  
Die  Blechtrommel 
] 
2A.  What angular estate for the Kauffmann family, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, juts out over a 
Pennsylvania river? 
ANSWER:  
Fallingwater 
2B.  Name the kingdom whose army used an oblique order under the direction of a \"great\" Hohenzollern 
ruler at the Battle of Leuthen (LOY-ten). 
ANSWER:  
Prussia 
 [or  
Preussen 
; or  
Prusy 
] 
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. The mean of three numbers is four. The largest number is 
nine and the smallest number is one. What is the third number? 
ANSWER:  
2 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. How many diagonals are there in a convex pentagon? 
ANSWER:  
5 
4A.  What religious figure's nature, or possible dual nature, was the subject of the Nestorian, Monophysite, 
and Arian heresies? 
ANSWER:  
Jesus 
 Christ of Nazareth [or Jesus  
Christ 
] 
4B.  The biggest Bauhaus-style neighborhood in the world is found in the White City of what Israeli 
metropolis, which is administratively combined with the port of Jaffa? 
ANSWER:  
Tel Aviv 
5A.  What term can refer to, in biology, the rate of diffusion through a membrane or, in physics, the amount 
of a magnetic field passing through a surface? 
ANSWER:  
flux 
5B.  Name the Joss Whedon-direct comic book movie in which Black Widow and Hawkeye join a team to 
recover the Tesseract from Loki. 
ANSWER:  
The  Avengers 
 [or  
Marvel's The Avengers 
] 
6A.  What mineral, commonly found in drywall, has a value of 2 on the Mohs hardness scale? 
ANSWER:  
gypsum 
6B.  What E-flat major symphony with a second-movement funeral march was originally dedicated to 
Napoleon until he crowned himself emperor? 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven 
's Symphony No.   [or  
3 Third 
 for \"3\"; prompt on answers that give a 
number without specifying the composer; or  
Eroica 
 Symphony] 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all solutions to the equation x^3 + 3x^2 - 4x - 12 = 0 
(READ: \"x cubed plus three x squared minus four x minus twelve equals zero\"). 
ANSWER:  
2, -2, and -3 
 [or x=  , x =  , and x= ; accept answers in any order; do not accept partial 
2 -2 -3 
answers] 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all solutions between x = 0 and x = 2 pi, inclusive, to the 
equation: sin 2x = 0. 
ANSWER:  
{0, pi/2, pi, 3pi/2, 2pi} 
 [or x= , x= 
0 pi over 2 
, x =  , x =  
pi 3 pi over 2 
, and x =  
2 pi 
; accept 
answers in any order; do not accept partial answers] 
8A.  What Jane Austen novel focuses on Willoughby's interactions with the emotional Marianne and her 
sister Elinor Dashwood? 
ANSWER:  
Sense and Sensibility 
8B.  Green River, Gilette, and Rock Springs are cities in what state, where only three cities, including 
Casper and Laramie, exceed thirty thousand people in population? 
ANSWER:  
Wyoming 
9A.  What vector quantity is multiplied by mass to determine the force on an object? 
ANSWER:  
acceleration 
9B.  What painting, subtitled \"The Great Western Railway,\" is a depiction of a small rabbit running away 
from a train by J.M.W. Turner? 
ANSWER:  
Rain, Steam, and Speed -The Great Western Railway 
10A.  What powerful, anti-American president of Venezuela sought treatment for cancer once again in 
December 2012? 
ANSWER: Hugo  
Chavez 
 Frias 
10B.  Which team, whose days in Memorial Stadium featured shortstop Cal Ripken, lost to the Yankees in 
the 2012 AL Division Series? 
ANSWER:  
Baltimore 
 Orioles [or Baltimore  
Orioles 
] 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 1 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In 1984, Tak Wah Mak discovered these cells’s receptors, which had a similar structure but totally 
different genetic origin than antibodies. They are let out from their organ of origin if they do not attack 
\"self\" macrophages, since, if they did, they would attack good cells. These cells with natural killer, 
cytotoxic, and helper varieties are differentiated by namesake receptors from NK cells and B-cells. For 10 
points, name this group of lymphocytes named for their place of origin, the thymus. 
ANSWER:  -cells 
T 
153-13-74-01117 
2. This novel features the real-world facility of Weedpatch Camp. Near its end, Al announces that he will 
marry Agnes Wainwright while in a boxcar. In its third chapter, a truck runs into and flips over a plodding 
turtle, which the protagonist picks up. In this novel, Rose of Sharon breastfeeds a starving stranger, and a 
policeman kills retired preacher Jim Casy, who meets Tom in Oklahoma. For 10 points, name this novel 
about the Joad family’s move to California, written by John Steinbeck. 
ANSWER:  
The  Grapes of Wrath 
104-13-74-01118 
3. This molecule cannot be synthesized in the body without the GULO enzyme. This molecule is a cofactor 
for two enzymes that add OH groups to proline to form hydroxyproline, making this antioxidant nutrient 
helpful for synthesis of collagen. Nobel-winning chemist Linus Pauling advocated for megadoses of this 
vitamin, whose deficiency causes diseased gums from scurvy. For 10 points, name this vitamin found in 
citrus fruits. 
ANSWER: Vitamin   [or L-  
C ascorbic acid 
; or  
ascorbate 
] 
104-13-74-01119 
4. In this war, Charles Salaberry won the Battle of Chateauguay, and Isaac Brock died at the Battle of 
Queenston Heights. During this larger war, a regional conflict erupted that ended at Horseshoe Bend and 
was called the Creek War. At the Battle of the Thames in this war, William Henry Harrison's forces killed a 
leader who helped capture Detroit; that was Tecumseh. For 10 points, name this war in which Washington, 
D.C., was burned, which was ended by the Treaty of Ghent. 
ANSWER: War of  
1812 
153-13-74-01120 
5. This author wrote a play in which Gooper attends a party honoring his father’s release from the Ochsner 
Clinic. That character created by this man despises \"mendacity\" and tries to reunite with his son Brick. In 
another of his plays, a \"gentleman caller\" visits a crippled young woman who collects figurines. This author 
of  
The Glass Menagerie 
 wrote a play featuring the brutal Stanley Kowalski and Blanche DuBois. For 10 
points, name this playwright of  
A Streetcar Named Desire. 
ANSWER: Tennessee  
Williams 
 [or Thomas Lanier  
Williams 
] 
052-13-74-01121 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  6 of 9 
6. On a closed interval, functions with this property will also possess the uniform type of it. This is a 
necessary condition for use of the intermediate and extreme value theorems. The first fundamental theorem 
of calculus says all functions of this type will have antiderivatives. It is a necessary condition for being 
differentiable, and does not occur at singularities and jumps. For 10 points, name this property, possessed 
by functions that can be drawn without lifting the pencil. 
ANSWER:  
continuity 
 [or  
continuous 
] 
121-13-74-01122 
7. Great Palm Island and Orpheus National Park are located between this structure and the mainland. A lab 
on Heron Island is the center of scientific work on this structure, which began forming during the Miocene 
Epoch. Its characteristic colors have been reduced by half since 1985 as a result of bleaching and the 
introduction of the predatory crown-of-thorns starfish. For 10 points, the Trunk, Dingo, and Kangaroo are 
components of what 1600-mile mass in the Coral Sea off the coast of Australia? 
ANSWER: the  
Great Barrier Reef 
019-13-74-01123 
8. The luminosity and rotation speed of these bodies is compared in the Tully-Fisher relation. These bodies 
inhabit the right half of Hubble's tuning fork. The youngest and most luminous stars in this type of body are 
the furthest from its central bulge. A hybrid of this type of body and an elliptical galaxy forms a lenticular 
galaxy. One variety of this type of body contains a bar through the middle, connecting its arms. For 10 
points, name this type of galaxy that includes the Milky Way. 
ANSWER: bar- 
spiral 
 galaxy [prompt on  
galaxy 
] 
153-13-74-01124 
9. One measure of these entities’ effectiveness, in inverse seconds, is as high as 40 million for an example 
of them within the peroxisome, and is called the turnover number. Briggs and Haldane updated the 
Michaelis-Menten model of their kinetics. Competitive and non-competitive inhibition can weaken these 
molecules. Substrates bind to the active site of these molecules, whose names often end in \"-ase.\" For 10 
points, name these proteins that act as catalysts for biological reactions. 
ANSWER:  
enzyme 
s 
104-13-74-01125 
10. One opera based on this play includes the aria \"Morte Io non temo\" and uses a loosely adapted libretto 
by Felice Romani. Another opera based on this play features the \"Je veux vivre\" (jeh veh VEEV-ruh) waltz 
aria, in which one title character declares \"I want to live.\" The \"Dance of the Knights\" appears in 
Prokofiev's ballet based on this play, which was adapted into a French opera by Charles Gounod. For 10 
points, name this play, the basis for Vincenzo Bellini's opera  
The Capulets and the Montagues 
. 
ANSWER:  
Romeo and Juliet 
019-13-74-01126 
11. This empire put down a rebellion of African slaves near Basra called the Zanj Rebellion. This dynasty 
had a powerful family called the Barmarkids, who were suppressed by its fifth ruler. That ruler of this 
empire built the House of Wisdom and was named Harun Al-Rashid. This empire came to power in a 750 
CE coup and had its capital at Baghdad, which was sacked by the Mongols. For 10 points, name this 
caliphate that overthrew the Umayyads and ruled the Middle East for five hundred years. 
ANSWER:  
Abbasid 
 Caliphate [or  
Abbasid 
 Dynasty, Empire, etc.] 
153-13-74-01127 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  7 of 9 
12. Eighteen years before this event, a letter to Grand Duchess Christina of Tuscany laid out one side's 
position on Joshua 10:13. Legend has it that the subject of this event muttered \"and yet it does move\" at its 
end. It targeted a man who was warned by Cardinal Bellarmine and was accused of mocking Urban VIII. 
The accused recanted at this 1633 event, agreeing to live under house arrest. For 10 points, name this event 
in which the Roman Inquisition tried an Italian for his work in astronomy. 
ANSWER: heresy  
trial 
 of  
Galileo 
 Galilei 
104-13-74-01128 
13. A Friedrich Nietzsche concept named after this deity represents order in  
The Birth of Tragedy. 
 A wind 
from Zephyrus blew this god’s fatal discus throw at Hyacinthus. This deity’s plague arrows strike the 
Greeks in the Iliad. Daphne became a laurel tree to avoid this god, who the oracle of Delphi served. Hermes 
gave this god a lyre in his role as god of poetry and music. For 10 points, name this brother of Artemis, 
who, like Helios, represents the sun. 
ANSWER: Phoebus  
Apollo 
 [or  
Apollon 
; or \"the  
Apollonian 
\"] 
104-13-74-01129 
14. One play by this man features a man who uses a tortoise named Plautus as a paperweight, and begins 
with a discussion of the phrase \"carnal embrace.\" This author wrote about the investigations of Hannah 
Jarvis and Bernard Nightingale into the story of Thomasina Coverly and Septimus Hodge. In another of his 
plays, one character continually wins a coin-flipping game. For 10 points, identify this British playwright 
of  
Arcadia 
 and  
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. 
ANSWER: Tom  
Stoppard 
 [or Tomas  
Straussler 
] 
189-13-74-01130 
15. One structure commonly used in this field is governed by an activation function, usually non-linear, 
such as a sigmoid. A thought experiment involving an English-speaking translator with no knowledge of 
Chinese was developed by John Searle to discredit the \"strong\" type of this phenomenon. An interrogator 
attempting to distinguish between a human and a machine is the basis for Alan Turing's test for it. For 10 
points, John McCarthy coined what term in reference to thinking machines? 
ANSWER:  
artificial intelligence 
 [or  
AI 
; prompt on  
machine learning 
] 
149-13-74-01131 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 1 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This man unsuccessfully tried to nominate his counsel Harriet Miers to the Supreme Court. The headline 
\"How Can 59,054,087 People Be So Dumb?\" was produced by the  
Daily Mirror 
 in response to this man 
winning an election. He controversially told FEMA head Michael Brown he was \"doing a heckuva job\" 
after Hurricane Katrina. This man won the presidency in an election that featured \"hanging chads\" and 
\"butterfly ballots\" in Florida. For 10 points, name this President during the 9/11 attacks in 2001. 
ANSWER: George  
W 
alker  
Bush 
 [or  
Bush II 
; or  
Bush 43 
; or anything distinguishing him from his father; 
prompt on  
Bush 
; do not accept \"George Herbert Walker Bush\"] 
052-13-74-01132 
2. After working as a janitor at St. Olaf College, this man drops out and joins up with Dan Cody. When he 
dies, his funeral is attended by his father Henry, from North Dakota, and a man known only as “Owl Eyes.” 
This character works with the gangster Meyer Wolfsheim, but is ultimately killed by George Wilson, who 
thinks this man ran over Myrtle. This man has a mansion at West Egg and is in love with Daisy Buchanan. 
For 10 points, name this title millionaire of an F. Scott Fitzgerald novel. 
ANSWER: Jay  
Gatsby 
 [or  
Jay 
 Gatsby; or James  
Gatz 
; or  
James 
 Gatz] 
052-13-74-01133 
3. The quality of this process can be improved by zone refining, and it can be performed in Craig tubes. 
Decanting is used to remove impurities during this process, which can only occur in a supersaturated 
solution. This process causes orderly structured solids to precipitate out of a solution. Induced by a seed 
material, this process can create quartz and other minerals. For 10 points, name this process that is used to 
make rock candy and salt crystals. 
ANSWER:  
crystallization 
149-13-74-01134 
4. One book within this novel equates the \"Death-Worship\" ideology with neo-Bolshevism. Mr. 
Charrington betrays the protagonist of this novel, who is told to imagine the future as \"a boot stamping on a 
human face - forever.\" Emmanuel Goldstein and Eastasia are enemies of Airstrip One in this novel, in 
which O’Brien uses rats in Room 101 to torture Julia’s rebellious lover Winston Smith. For 10 points, 
name this dystopian novel in which Big Brother is watching, by George Orwell. 
ANSWER:  
Nineteen Eighty-Four 
104-13-74-01135 
5. The principle of maximum work would apply exactly to this state, at which a reaction's change in Gibbs 
free energy equals its change in enthalpy. At this state, a boson gas condenses into a single quantum state. 
Superfluids and superconductors form when this physical state is approached, although scientists have only 
gotten within one hundred picokelvins of reaching it. For 10 points, name this temperature at which matter 
has no thermal energy, equal to zero Kelvin. 
ANSWER:  
absolute zero 
 [or  
0 Kelvin 
 until it is read] 
190-13-74-01136 
This is a calculation question. The angles of a quadrilateral are an arithmetic progression, with smallest 
angle measuring 60 degrees. Find the next smallest angle. 
ANSWER:   degrees 
80 
Emil Fischer won a Nobel Prize for studying what substance, produced in plants via photosynthesis? 
ANSWER:  
glucose 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regionals     1     Page  9 of 9 
