NASAT 2013 
Round 15 
Tossups 
1. The rate at which these events occur can be determined by dividing Watterson's estimator by four times 
the effective population size. E. coli strains in which glycosylases are damaged are named for their high 
occurence of these. Replica plated bacteria that were then subjected to a phage were used to show how 
these occurrences behave randomly in the Luria-Delbruck experiment. The ability of bacteria to live on 
media lacking histidine is the basis of the Ames method for testing a substance's ability to cause these. 
Repair enzymes can stop these from propagating to the next generation. These events provide the variation 
on which evolution acts by creating new alleles. For 10 points, name these events in which DNA changes 
because of errors in replications, noxious chemicals, or radiation. 
ANSWER:  
mutation 
s [or  
mutation 
al events] 
001-13-83-15101 
2. William Laughead wrote about this man and named one of his companions in a series of Red River 
Pamphlets, one of which claimed he was from Westwood, California. The earliest printed story about this 
man was published by James MacGillivray in the  
Detroit News-Tribune 
 under the title \"The Round River 
Drive.\" Stories about this man may have spread as early as the Papineau Rebellion. This man found a 
creature during the Winter of the Blue Snow for which he created five watering holes. This man's clerk, 
Johnny Inkslinger, invented bookkeeping and the fountain pen. This man has been credited with creating 
the Grand Canyon and the Great Lakes. For 10 points, name this figure from American folklore who 
worked as a lumberjack with Babe the Blue Ox. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Bunyan 
023-13-83-15102 
3. As part of this larger initiative, an attempt to kill the \"Four Pests\" was launched, causing crops to be 
devastated by locusts following the Kill A Sparrow Campaign. Under this program, wages were paid in 
work points instead of money, and plows dug to depths of two meters in an attempt to create deeper crop 
roots. This period grew out of a conference in the resort city of Qingdao and the Anti-Rightist Campaign. 
This project led to the creation of many backyard furnaces in an attempt to overtake Great Britain within 
fifteen years in steel production. For 10 points, name this 1958 to 1960 period in which millions of people 
died of famine as China attempted to rapidly industrialize. 
ANSWER:  
Great Leap Forward 
 [prompt on Second  
Five Year Plan 
; prompt on  
Great Famine 
] 
030-13-83-15103 
4. This author wrote the essay \"Why Do I Fast?\" about his time as a  
persona non grata 
; during that period 
he wrote \"the man dies in all who keep silent in the face of tyranny\" in a banned autobiography. One of his 
characters beats Shadrack in an election when his secretary Rebecca serves the voting prophets drinks in a 
play about his \"Metamorphosis\"; he introduced that charlatan preacher in an earlier play about his \"Trials.\" 
This author wrote about a Westernized schoolteacher who refuses to pay the bride-price for Sidi in one 
play, and he focused another play on a suicide ritual carried out by Olunde in lieu of Elesin. For 10 points, 
name this Nigerian playwright of  
The Lion and the Jewel 
 and  
Death and the King's Horseman 
. 
ANSWER: Wole  
Soyinka 
020-13-83-15104 
NASAT 2013     15     Page  1 of 12 
5. Mountains located near this body of water include Mount Scott and Union Peak. This body of water is 
home to a namesake species of newt notable for its dark-colored underside. According to the Klamath 
Indians, this body of water was created when the gods Skell and Llao fought each other. This body of water 
is home to a rocky outcropping known as “Phantom Ship.” Notable landmarks in this body of water 
include “The Old Man of the Lake,” a wooden stump which has been floating in it for over a century 
without decomposing. This site of Wizard Island was created 7,700 years ago by Mount Mazama, a 
volcano. For 10 points, name this deepest lake in the United States, found in a caldera in Oregon. 
ANSWER:  
Crater 
 Lake 
021-13-83-15105 
6. In factor analysis, the sum of the squares of the common factor loadings for a variable, or communality, 
is how much of this value is shared with other variables. An assumption about the homogeneity of this 
measure can be evaluated using Hartley's F-max test. This measure is conventionally defined as the 
expected value of the square of a random variable minus the square of the expected value of a random 
variable, or the second moment of the distribution minus the square of the mean. The coefficient of 
determination, or R , is the percentage of this value for one variable that is accounted for by this value for 
2 
another variable. For 10 points, identify this statistical measure represented by sigma squared that is the 
square of standard deviation. 
ANSWER:  
variance 
066-13-83-15106 
7. This poet asked, “What’s madness but nobility of soul at odds with circumstance?” in a poem ending, 
“The mind enters itself, and God the mind, and one is One, free in the tearing wind.” The speaker 
parenthetically observes, “I measure time by how a body sways” in his poem describing a person “lovely 
in her bones.” This poet of “In a Dark Time” and “I Knew a Woman” wrote an elegy beginning, “The 
whiskey on your breath could make a small boy dizzy,” as well as a villanelle concluding, “I learn by going 
where I have to go.” For 10 points, name this German-American poet of “My Papa’s Waltz” and “The 
Waking.” 
ANSWER: Theodore  
Roethke 
014-13-83-15107 
8. This god once made the Fates drunk to get them to except his favorite mortal from death. According to 
Ovid, he allowed Cyparissus to transform into a cypress tree after that mortal accidentally killed a favorite 
stag. This god turned himself into a tortoise to seduce Dryope, then turned himself into a snake and raped 
her. Homer refers to this god by a mysterious epithet that may have to do with mice, \"Smintheus.\" With 
Cyrene, he was the father of a beekeeping demigod, Aristaeus. Jealous of this god, the West Wind blew a 
discus off course so that it killed his male lover Hyacinthus. He gained a cult center after slaying the 
Python. For 10 points, name this Greek god of music and light. 
ANSWER:  
Apollo 
 [or  
Apollon 
] 
080-13-83-15108 
9. This composer gave a nod to Polish nationalism by quoting the song \"Hej, Slavone!\" in his D-major 
string quartet. In memory of this composer's death, the  
Asrael Symphony 
 was composed by his former 
violin pupil and son-in-law Josef Suk, who, like this composer, composed an E major  
Serenade for Strings 
. 
A popular song warning people not to flush passenger train toilets when the train is in the station is set to 
the music of this composer's seventh  
Humoresque 
. His most famous piece contains a second-movement 
English horn solo and was based on African-American spirituals and Native American music. For 10 
points, name this Czech composer of the  
New World Symphony 
. 
ANSWER: Antonin Leopold  
Dvorak 
020-13-83-15109 
NASAT 2013     15     Page  2 of 12 
10. Although it is not enthalpy, in an adiabatic process, this quantity equals the heat capacity at constant 
volume times the initial temperature minus the final temperature. For an isothermal process, it equals 
number of moles times RT times the log of the ratio of the volumes. Carnot efficiency equals this quantity 
divided by the heat of the hotter reservoir. When applied with a torque, it is called \"shaft.\" This quantity is 
given by the area inside a cycle on a PV diagram, so its differential equals pressure times the differential of 
volume. The change in internal energy equals heat minus it, which is positive when done by a system on its 
surroundings. For 10 points, name this quantity that is the amount of useful mechanical energy derived 
from a thermodynamic system. 
ANSWER: thermodynamic  
work 
190-13-83-15110 
11. Over decades of work at Harvard, George Eman Vaillant outlined a large number of these phenomena 
that were incorporated into DSM-IV. They are classified into pathological, immature, neurotic, and mature 
levels. Object relations theory posits that the paranoid-schizoid position results in one of these known as 
\"splitting.\" Twelve of these, including signal anxiety, were discussed in Anna Freud's book about  
The Ego 
and 
 these. One of these, which results in positive actions or behavior, is known as sublimation. They also 
include somatization and acting out and are generally considered distinct from coping strategies. For 10 
points, name these phenomena, such as projection, by which an unconscious mind distorts reality. 
ANSWER:  
defense 
 mechanisms [or mechanisms of  
defense 
] 
020-13-83-15111 
12. One member of this profession was the namesake of a law that provided ten dollars a month in extra 
pay for infantrymen and died after being hit by Japanese gunfire in Okinawa; that member of this 
profession was Ernie Pyle. Supporters of the Somoza regime killed a member of this profession, Bill 
Stewart, in Nicaragua. Two members of this profession made use of former FBI deputy director Mark Felt, 
who was later revealed to be \"Deep Throat.\" For 10 points, name this profession, two members of which, 
Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward, reported on the Watergate scandal for the  
Washington Post 
. 
ANSWER:  
journalists 
 [or reasonable equivalents such as  
newspapermen 
] 
030-13-83-15112 
13. In a novel by this author, the manipulative manager of an elderly widow's property marries her in spite 
of opposition from his son-in-law, Gusten Flod. This creator of Johannes Carlsson wrote about a journalist's 
meetings with bohemian artists in the title location in his novel about Arvid Falk. In one of his plays, the 
death screen is placed before the closet into which the Old Man, Jacob Hummel, is forced. This author of  
The Red Room 
 wrote another play in which the title character commits suicide upon the return of her father, 
the Count, after sleeping with the valet Jean. For 10 points, name this Swedish playwright of  
The Ghost 
Sonata 
 and  
Miss Julie. 
ANSWER: August  
Strindberg 
014-13-83-15113 
14. This ruler's forces suffered a disastrous defeat under the command of Alfonso La Marmora in the Battle 
of Custoza. This man took the throne after his father abdicated following humiliating losses at Novara and 
an earlier battle at Custoza. Following that abdication, this ruler agreed to an armistice with Joseph 
Radetzky. The Peace of Villafranca confirmed the victories of this ruler at Solferino and Magenta when he 
allied with Napoleon III against Austria. This son of Charles Albert was excommunicated by Pius IX for 
taking the Papal States, a move supported by his adviser Count Cavour. For 10 points, name this first king 
of a unified Italy. 
ANSWER:  
Victor Emmanuel II 
 [prompt on  
Victor Emmanuel 
] 
186-13-83-15114 
NASAT 2013     15     Page  3 of 12 
15. According to some believers, the nafs of one of these beings dwells within a barrier called al-Barzakh. 
Usually, only a qiyaam and no tashahhud are required in a service devoted to these beings. A three-part or 
five-part kafan cloth is worn by these people, to whom a janazah ceremony is dedicated. These people are 
asked three questions by Munkar and Nakir. Though they’re not converts, a believer should say the 
Shahada just before becoming this type of person, just as Jews aim to say the Shema before becoming one. 
For 10 points, name this type of person whose status, according to Islam, is reversed prior to divine 
judgment on the Day of Resurrection. 
ANSWER:  
dead 
 people [or  
dead 
 Muslims; or  
buried 
 Muslims; or human  
soul 
s; prompt on  
human 
s or  
people 
] 
104-13-83-15115 
16. In the MK system, this type of star corresponds to class V. An important characteristic that defines 
these stars is chemical homogeneity. One way to determine the distance to a cluster is to vertically fit these 
type of stars on a CMD, which gives one the distance modulus. The age of a cluster can be determined by 
the age of this type of star at the turnoff point. \"Zero age\" is the point at which a star evolves from a 
protostar into this type of star. On a Hertzsprung-Russell diagram, stars on this track proceed along the 
diagonal from bottom right to top left in the area of highest density. For 10 points, given this term for stars 
that obtain their energy by fusing hydrogen to create helium in their core. 
ANSWER:  
main sequence 
 star [prompt on  
dwarf 
 star] 
066-13-83-15116 
17. This painting inspired a later Claude Monet canvas with the same title that included portraits of 
Frederic Bazille and Gustave Courbet. The people in this painting resemble a group of river gods in a 
Marcantonio Raimondi engraving of Raphael's  
Judgement of Paris 
. In the background of this painting, two 
trees surround an empty boat facing the viewer, and a kneeling dark-haired woman puts her right fist on the 
ground, looking right. This painting's bottom left depicts a round loaf of bread, an overflowing fruit basket, 
and a pile of discarded clothes. For 10 points, name this painting which caused a stir at the 1863 Salon des 
Refuses because it depicted two fully clothed men and a nude woman, a painting by Edouard Manet. 
ANSWER:  
The  Luncheon on the Grass 
 [or  
Le  dejeuner sur l'herbe 
; also accept  
The  Bath 
 or  
Le  Bain 
before it is read] 
020-13-83-15117 
18. This poet responded to his wife's death with a poem whose speaker hopes to \"bear the brunt, in a minute 
pay life's glad arrears of pain, darkness, and cold.\" He wrote, \"This, I was worth to God, whose wheel the 
pitcher shaped,\" in a poem that responds to the hedonism of the  
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam 
. This author of 
\"Prospice\" wrote, \"Let age approve of youth, and death complete the same!\" in a poem beginning \"Grow 
old along with me! The best is yet to be!\" The line, \"And yet God has not said a word!\" concludes another 
of his poems, whose speaker strangles his beloved with her own hair. For 10 points, name this British poet 
whose dramatic monologues include \"Rabbi Ben Ezra,\" \"Porphyria's Lover,\" and \"My Last Duchess.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Browning 
080-13-83-15118 
19. The west face of this building is marred by two mismatched spires, one a Romanesque pyramid, the 
other a Flamboyant spire. Jamb sculptures of Old Testament kings and queens decorate its west entrance, 
which is therefore called the Royal Portal. The \"cult of the Virgin\" at this location was characterized as its 
own separate religion in a book written by Henry Adams. Stained glass windows in this building include 
the  
belle verriere 
, or Blue Virgin window, which references the  
sancta camisa 
 in its crypt. This cathedral 
could support clerestory windows of unusual size because it was the first planned from the beginning with 
flying buttresses. For 10 points, name this Gothic cathedral in northwest France. 
ANSWER:  
Chartres 
 Cathedral 
080-13-83-15119 
NASAT 2013     15     Page  4 of 12 
20. Verrius Flaccus etched a still-extant one of these objects into a marble wall at Praeneste. Another of 
these objects was created with the help of Sosigenes of Alexandria to reduce manipulation by ambitious 
pontifices. These objects were used to mark the Regifugium and were based on fixed points like the Nones 
and Kalends. Ovid put a newly-created one into six books of heroic couplets in his  
Fasti 
. One system of 
segmenting these objects started on Nundinae and used the letters A through H to put eight days in each 
week. For 10 points, name this system that Julius Caesar reformed, and which might have told Julius 
Caesar that it was the Ides of March. 
ANSWER: Roman  
calendars 
 [or  
Fasti 
 before it is read] 
080-13-83-15120 
21. Natalie Zemon Davis's article  
The Rites of Violence 
 focuses on this event. The year before this event 
took place, a smaller-scale version was precipitated by the removal of a monument under a provision of the 
Peace of Saint Germain. Contemporary accounts of this event suggest that it was signaled by the ringing of 
a bell during the matins service. This event was precipitated by the wedding of Margaret of Valois. The 
wheels for this event were set in motion after Maurevert's failed assassination attempt resulted in a 
Guise-loyal mob murdering such leaders as Gaspard de Coligny. For 10 points, name this 1572 slaughter of 
Huguenots instigated by Catherine de Medici. 
ANSWER:  
St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre 
 [accept synonyms for  
massacre 
] 
020-13-83-15121 
22. This poet lamented that the \"terror of night-prowlers\" is \"encased in an urn\" in his Latin elegy for the 
Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer, Roger Manwood. One of his characters states, \"Nature, that framed us 
of four elements, warring within our breasts for regiment, doth teach us all to have aspiring minds,\" after 
overthrowing Cosroe. The speakers lists \"a kirtle embroidered all with leaves of myrtle\" and \"a gown made 
of the finest wool which from our pretty lambs we pull\" in his poem that begins with the speaker's request, 
\"Come live with me and be my Love.\" For 10 points, name this English poet of \"The Passionate Shepherd 
to His Love\" and such plays as  
Tamburlaine the Great 
 and  
Doctor Faustus. 
ANSWER: Christopher  
Marlowe 
030-13-83-15122 
23. In this technique, the Patterson function can be used to solve the phase problem. Samples undergoing 
this technique often have selenium incorporated in order to take advantage of multi-wavelength anomalous 
dispersion. The raw data from this process is compared to the model in order to find the R-factor. This 
technique was used by John Kendrew on myoglobin derived from sperm whales, and in this technique, a 
pure, precipitated macromolecule is mounted on a goniometer and rotated while being bombarded by 
radiation. Maurice Wilkins was an expert in this technique who collaborated with Watson and Crick. For 
10 points, name this technique which was used by Rosalind Franklin to image the structure of DNA. 
ANSWER:  
X-ray crystallography 
 [or  
X-ray diffraction 
] 
048-13-83-15123 
NASAT 2013     15     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2013 
Round 15 
Bonuses 
1. This effect is a third smaller than expected due to the universe expanding as the two-thirds power of time 
at the time of recombination, cancelling two-thirds of the observed redshift. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this effect which relates temperature fluctuations to gravitational potentials. 
ANSWER:  
Sachs-Wolfe 
 effect 
[10] The Sachs-Wolfe effect relates temperature anisotropy in this thing, which was studied by the COBE 
experiment, to density fluctuations. 
ANSWER:  
CMB 
R [or  
cosmic microwave background 
 radiation; or  
CB 
R; or  
MB 
R; or  
relic 
 radiation] 
[10] The Integrated Sachs-Wolfe effect is one piece of evidence for this thing. This thing constitutes most 
of the mass-energy of the universe and is the cause of the universe's accelerating expansion. 
ANSWER:  
dark energy 
066-13-83-15201  
2. In one story from this collection, William Stendhal reconstructs the mansion from \"The Fall of the House 
of Usher\" and rigs it with traps to murder the visiting \"Moral Climate Monitors.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this collection, containing stories like \"Night Meeting\" and \"There Will Come Soft Rains,\" all 
vaguely about the colonization of a certain place. 
ANSWER:  
The  Martian Chronicles 
[10]  
The Martian Chronicles 
 was written by this science fiction author who also wrote  
Dandelion Wine 
 and 
Fahrenheit 451 
. 
ANSWER: Ray  
Bradbury 
[10] In this story from Bradbury's  
The Illustrated Man 
, the children Peter and Wendy lock their parents 
George and Lydia inside a virtual reality nursery, where they are devoured by lions. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Veldt 
\" 
020-13-83-15202  
3. This hormone is produced in the zona fasciculata of the adrenal gland. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this “stress hormone,” too much of which can cause Cushing’s syndrome. 
ANSWER:  
cortisol 
[10] This hormone stiumalates the production of cortisol. Elevated levels of this hormone are found in 
people with Addison’s disease. 
ANSWER:  
ACTH 
 [or  
Adrenocorticotropic 
 hormone; or  
corticotropin 
] 
[10] This NADPH-dependent enzyme reduces cortisone to the active form of cortisol. It is inhibited by 
carbenoxolone. 
ANSWER:  
11 beta HSD1 
 [or  
11 beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 
] 
149-13-83-15203  
NASAT 2013     15     Page  6 of 12 
4. The last sentence of this story warns that \"A false alarm on the night bell once answered...cannot be 
made good.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this story, whose title character lies to a dying boy about his wound and is guilt-ridden over 
having left his servant Rosa behind with a lecherous groom. 
ANSWER: \"A  
Country Doctor 
\" [or \"Ein  
Landarzt 
\"] 
[10] In this other story by the author of \"A Country Doctor,\" the Officer is killed by his favorite machine, 
which was supposed to inscribe the words \"Be Just\" on his skin. 
ANSWER: \" 
In the Penal Colony 
\" [or \" 
In der Strafkolonie 
\"] 
[10] \"A Country Doctor\" and \"In the Penal Colony\" were written by this author who wrote about Gregor 
Samsa in \"The Metamorphosis.\" 
ANSWER: Franz  
Kafka 
020-13-83-15204  
5. This type of policy is pursued by central banks when interest rates are near zero. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this policy by which central banks attempt to stimulate the economy by pumping money into the 
economy by purchasing government bonds. 
ANSWER:  
quantitative easing 
 [or  
QE 
] 
[10] Quantitative easing is sometimes proposed as a solution to escape this situation in which interest rates 
are low and savings rates are high, causing monetary policy to be ineffective. 
ANSWER:  
liquidity trap 
[10] This economist and  
New York Times 
 columnist argued that Japan was in a liquidity trap in the 1990s in 
his book  
The Return of Depression Economics 
. He also proposed a \"new economic geography\" to explain 
the location of new jobs and increasing rates of urbanization. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Krugman 
030-13-83-15205  
6. This character was inspired by its author's stint in a counterintelligence operation to crush an 
Indian-German alliance during World War I. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this secret agent who takes advantage of Chandra Lai's relationship with Giulia Lazzari to arrest 
the former in a 1928 collection of linked stories. An unrelated character with his last name is the narrator of 
the novel  
Cakes and Ale 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Ashenden 
 [or  
John 
 Ashenden] 
[10] Ashenden was created by this English author, best known for writing  
Of Human Bondage 
. 
ANSWER: W. Somerset  
Maugham 
[10] Maugham fictionalized the life of Paul Gauguin in this novel about the stockbroker-turned-artist 
Charles Strickland. 
ANSWER:  
The  Moon and Sixpence 
020-13-83-15206  
7. Answer the following about Christian relics, for 10 points each. 
[10] The narrator of the Old English poem \"The Dream of the Rood\" sees a vision of this relic, the object 
upon which Christ was crucified. 
ANSWER: true  
cross 
[10] The Holy Grail was supposedly entrusted to this man, who donated the tomb used to bury Jesus. 
ANSWER:  
Joseph of Arimathea 
 [prompt on \"Joseph\"] 
[10] Hans Memling painted a gilded shrine containing the relics of this saint, a Christian British princess 
who was killed by the Huns during a pilgrimage of Europe. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Ursula 
020-13-83-15207  
NASAT 2013     15     Page  7 of 12 
8. One entity that supposedly performed this feat was \"Ajeeb,\" which was destroyed in a 1929 fire. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this activity supposedly engaged in by the Mechanical Turk. However, the Turk, like most of 
the similar devices, required an operator hiding inside to actually work. 
ANSWER: playing  
chess 
[10] The Turk was created by Wolfgang von Kempelen to impress this ruler, whose succession was set up 
by the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713. 
ANSWER:  
Maria Theresa 
 [or  
Maria Theresia 
] 
[10] Eugene de Beauharnais, the Italian Viceroy, so enjoyed the Turk he offered to buy it. Eugene's mother 
was this woman, who also gave birth to the Queen consort of Holland, Hortense. 
ANSWER:  
Josephine 
 de Beauharnais [or Marie-Josephe-Rose  
Tascher 
 de la Pagerie; prompt on J.  
Bonaparte 
] 
052-13-83-15208  
9. An unstable chord opens and closes the A-minor allegretto in the second movement of this symphony, 
which is often performed on its own. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this symphony, which was composed in the spa town of Teplice and was premiered at a charity 
concert for wounded soldiers. 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven's  Symphony No. 7  in A Major, Op. 92 
[10] In his Ninth Symphony, Beethoven set this Friedrich Schiller poem about a \"Daughter of Elysium\" to 
music. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ode to Joy 
\" [or \" 
Ode an die Freude 
\"] 
[10] Beethoven's Seventh Symphony was the first and the last piece conducted by this man, the 16-time 
Grammy winner who directed the New York Philharmonic. 
ANSWER: Leonard  
Bernstein 
020-13-83-15209  
10. After this event, Gene Kranz addressed his staff, saying \"from this day forward,\" they would be known 
by two words: \"tough and competent.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this February 21, 1967, disaster that killed Roger B. Chaffee, Edward White, and Gus Grissom 
in Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Apollo 1 
 fire [or  
Apollo Saturn-204 
 fire; or  
AS-204 
 fire] 
[10] An Apollo 1 mission patch was left on the Moon by this Apollo 11 crew member, the first man to walk 
on the moon. 
ANSWER: Neil Alden  
Armstrong 
[10] Gus Grissom was one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts. This other Mercury Seven astronaut 
was the commander of Apollo 7 and was the only person to fly Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo missions. 
ANSWER: Wally  
Schirra 
 [or Walter Marty  
Schirra 
, Jr.] 
052-13-83-15210  
NASAT 2013     15     Page  8 of 12 
11. Original productions of this ballet company include  
Les Rendezvous 
 and an adaptation of Turgenev's  
A 
Month in the Country 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this English company, founded by Dame Ninette de Valois, long-directed by Sir Frederic 
Ashton. At its peak, many of its performances were dominated by Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev. 
ANSWER: The  
Royal Ballet 
[10] In 2008, the company won two awards for their premiere of  
Jewels 
, a ballet created by this 
Georgian-born choreographer who founded the New York City ballet. 
ANSWER: George  
Balanchine 
 [or Giorgi Melitonovitch  
Balanchivadze 
] 
[10] One of the company's greatest productions was a 1962 adaptation of this riot-causing Stravinsky ballet, 
in which a girl known as the Chosen One dances herself to death. 
ANSWER:  
The  Rite of Spring 
 [or  
Le  Sacre du printemps 
; or  
Vesna svyashchennaya 
] 
020-13-83-15211  
12. This river rises in the Cambrian Mountains and flows through Shropshire and Worcestershire. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this waterway. Its former namesake is now known as the Bristol Channel, and it is the longest 
river the United Kingdom. 
ANSWER: River  
Severn 
[10] The River Severn flows south of this forest region in western Gloucestershire. Once encompassed by 
the Hundred of St. Briavels, it is bounded by the River Wye on two sides. 
ANSWER: Forest of  
Dean 
[10] This other river, the longest contained within England, flows through London. 
ANSWER: River  
Thames 
192-13-83-15212  
13. Answer these questions about people who painted rather basic two-color canvases and made lots of 
money doing it, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Latvian émigré painted blurry rectangles of adjoining colors in his Color Field paintings, such as 
those in the Four Seasons restaurant in the Seagram building and those in his namesake chapel in Houston. 
ANSWER: Mark  
Rothko 
[10] Joseph Albers painted color studies consisting of these shapes embedded within another, called  
Homage to [this shape] 
. Kazimir Malevich also painted a “black” one during the heyday of Suprematism. 
ANSWER: the  
square 
[10] This artist painted irregular black shapes above over 100 white backgrounds in his  
Elegy to the 
Spanish Republic 
 series. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Motherwell 
104-13-83-15213  
NASAT 2013     15     Page  9 of 12 
14. The value of one of these things equals the coefficient of the negative first term of a function's Laurent 
series. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these complex numbers, the value of a contour integral on a path containing a function's 
singularity. 
ANSWER:  
residue 
[10] The residue theorem was proven by this mathematician. Terms in his namesake sequence become 
arbitrarily close to each other and, with Schwarz, he names an inequality which states that the modulus of 
the inner product of two vectors is less than or equal to the product of the vector's norms. 
ANSWER: Augustin-Louis  
Cauchy 
[10] Cauchy sequences converge to a limit in a metric space if the space has this property. The rationals do 
not have this property, but the real numbers do. 
ANSWER:  
complete 
ness 
121-13-83-15214  
15. This man's video rental history was controversially published, and it included such movies as  
A Day at 
the Races 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man, a former Solicitor General, who was described by Ted Kennedy in 1987 as a man who 
wanted \"a land in which women would be forced into back-alley abortions\" and a place where \"the doors of 
the Federal courts would be shut\" on millions. 
ANSWER: Robert Heron  
Bork 
[10] The head of the Judiciary Committee during the Bork nomination was this man, a Senator from 
Delaware from 1973 until 2009, when he took a higher position in the executive branch. 
ANSWER: Joseph Robinette  
Biden 
[10] Ronald Reagan's second-consecutive failed pick for a Supreme Court justice was Douglas Ginsburg, 
who withdrew his nomination after it was revealed he engaged in this behavior while a Harvard professor. 
ANSWER: used  
marijuana 
 [prompt on  
drug use 
; accept any and all euphemisms including  
jazz 
cigarettes 
] 
052-13-83-15215  
16. Answer the following about John C. Slater, for 10 points each: 
[10] Slater orbitals are used in this method of constructing molecular orbitals by summing scalar multiples 
of atomic orbitals. Hartree-Fock is used to find the constants involved in this procedure. 
ANSWER:  
linear combination 
 of  
atomic orbitals 
 [or  
LCAO 
] 
[10] The variational parameter in a Slater orbital is this quantity, which decreases due to shielding of inner 
electrons. Values of this quantity, symbolized Z star, are given by Slater's rules. 
ANSWER:  
effective nuclear charge 
 [or  
Z-eff 
; or  
Z-effective 
] 
[10] Slater determinants provide a linear combination of orbitals which are antisymmetric under exchange 
of electrons, a requirement of this principle, which gives zero probability of two electrons in the same 
orbital with the same spin. 
ANSWER:  
Pauli 
 exclusion principle [or Pauli  
exclusion 
 principle] 
190-13-83-15216  
NASAT 2013     15     Page  10 of 12 
17. For 10 points each, answer the following about Hamlet in Russian literature. 
[10] This novelist complained that Bardolatry had blinded scholars to the absurdly inconsistent 
characterization of Hamlet in a scathing critique of Shakespeare. He is better known for writing  
War and 
Peace. 
ANSWER: Leo  
Tolstoy 
 [or Lev Nikolayevich  
Tolstoy 
] 
[10] The short story \"Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District\" is found in this short story collection by Ivan 
Turgenev. This collection also includes \"The District Doctor.\" 
ANSWER:  
A  Sportsman's Sketches 
 [or  
Zapiski Ohotnika 
] 
[10] When considering \"To be or not to be\", the title character of this novel stands up to think, but lays 
back down after he does not have any slippers handy. This novel was written by Ivan Goncharov. 
ANSWER:  
Oblomov 
190-13-83-15217  
18. Answer the following about the Spartan king Agesilaus II, for 10 points each. 
[10] Agesilaus II belonged to this dynastic line, which, with the Agiad, claimed descent from Heracles. 
ANSWER:  
Eurypontid 
 Dynasty 
[10] Agesilaus's army won the Battle of Coronea during the war named for this city-state, which was ruled 
by Periander and controlled the  
diolkos 
. 
ANSWER:  
Corinth 
 [or  
Korinthos 
] 
[10] When asked how wide Sparta's territory was, Agesilaus II lifted one of these weapons and said \"as far 
as this can reach.\" Macedonian phalanxes used one of these called a sarissa. 
ANSWER:  
spear 
s [or  
lance 
s; or  
pike 
s] 
020-13-83-15218  
19. This man called William F. Buckley a \"crypto-Nazi\" in a debate aired by ABC News during the 1968 
Democratic National Convention. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this writer of historical fiction who shocked the literary public with his straightforward 
depiction of homosexuality in  
The City and the Pillar 
 and with his transsexual satire  
Myra Breckinridge. 
ANSWER: Gore  
Vidal 
[10] The first of Vidal's \"Narratives of Empire\" is about this man, who employs the apprentice Charlie 
Schuyler to ruin Martin Van Buren's political career by spreading rumors that he's his bastard son. 
ANSWER: Aaron  
Burr 
[10] Another of Vidal's novels describes the presidency of this man, whose death was mourned in Walt 
Whitman's \"O Captain, My Captain!\" 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Lincoln 
020-13-83-15219  
20. In this myth system, the sky is held up by four variously-colored giant children of Itzamna and Ixchel, 
the Bacabs. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this myth system whose stories are found in the  
Popol Vuh 
. 
ANSWER:  
Maya 
n mythology 
[10] In the  
Popol Vuh 
, the Hero Twins avoid death by transforming their wicked uncles into this kind of 
animal. In the  
Ramayana 
, Sugreeva and Vali clash for the kingship of these animals. 
ANSWER:  
monkeys 
 [or Howler  
monkeys 
] 
[10] In the  
Popul Vuh 
, this is the third earth giant encountered and defeated by the Hero Twins. He dies 
after being tricked into eating a bird covered in poisonous mud. 
ANSWER:  
Cabrakan 
080-13-83-15220  
NASAT 2013     15     Page  11 of 12 
21. An editorial by William White was broadcast from a capital city during this conflict and was titled \"The 
Last Christmas Tree.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this war in which one side set up defenses at the Mannerheim Line. It was followed a year later 
by the Continuation War. 
ANSWER:  
Winter 
 War [accept but do not read  
Russo-Finnish 
 War] 
[10] The Winter War was a loss for what country that was forced to give up land along Lake Ladoga to the 
Soviet Union? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Finland 
 [or  
Suomi 
; or  
Suomen Tasavalta 
; or Republiken  
Finland 
] 
[10] The Winter War overlapped with this lull in World War II on the Western Front, during which no 
major fighting occurred between the Germans, French, and English. 
ANSWER:  
Phony 
 War [or  
Sitzkrieg 
; or  
Twilight 
 War] 
052-13-83-15221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     15     Page  12 of 12 
