Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 1 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
Fall 2008  
ACF-Format Set #2  
Round 15  
Tossups  
1. One character in this novel reveals that his roommate planted a one hundred ruble note in a  
prostitute's jacket in an attempt to frame her for theft. The protagonist's sister Dunya breaks her  
engagement to Luzhin and later marries Razumikhin. Near the end of this novel, Svidrigailov commits  
suicide, and the protagonist confesses to Sonya and the police detective Porfiry Petrovich. Focusing on a  
student in St. Petersburg who kills an old pawnbroker with an axe, for 10 points, name this novel about  
Raskolnikov by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.  
ANSWER:  Crime and Punishment 
 [or  Prestupleniye i nakazaniye ]  
2. In a sequel to this painting, several dozen bricks form an orderly three2dimensional pattern. It was  
also recreated as the sculpture  Profile of Time , in addition to that followup painting, which showed its  
“disintegration.” This painting originally was inspired by a piece of Camembert cheese left in the sun. A  
self2representation of the artist emerges from the ground in the middle of the painting, while ants  
swarm over an object on the left. In the background are quite normal cliffs, in contrast to the three  
melting watches in, for 10 points, what work of Salvador Dalí?  
ANSWER:  The  Persistence of Memory 
 [or  La  persistencia de la memoria ]  
8. One predecessor to it produced “resinous solids” that were noted by William MacNevin as being “too  
complex for analysis.” The lack of precipitation of uranium in it is commonly cited by opponents of it,  
and the electricity it produced is often thought to be an overestimation. Joan Oró developed a similar  
experiment to this one, which tested Oparin and Haldane’s hypothesis. Apparently, nitrites destroy the  
fruits of this experiment at the same speed as those compounds form. For 10 points, name this  
experiment modeling the early Earth’s atmosphere.  
ANSWER:  Miller-Urey 
 experiment  
>. Consonants in this language are referred to using a word meaning “child sounds, ” and most of its  
formal speech includes use of the copula verb. Noted for an extensive use of frozen registers, honorifics  
such as “o” are often added to nouns in this language, which feature no difference between singular and  
plural. It is written using a pair of syllabaries known as “kana?” the @kata@ syllabary is mostly used to  
write borrowed foreign words. For 10 points, what is this probably Altaic language, written in hiragana  
and katakana scripts and widely spoken on Shikoku and Honshu?  
ANSWER:  Japanese  
A. A potassium2mercury reagent used to detect this compound in solution is named for Nessler. The  
presence of aldehydes in an organic mixture is indicated by a reagent containing a silver atom  
complexed to this molecule’s derivatives. It is converted to an oxidized product via the Ostwald process.  
Iron oxide is currently used as a catalyst in the industrial synthesis of this compound, in a modification  
proposed by Bosch. This weak base is produced by the Haber process. For 10 points, identify this  
compound with formula NH 
8 
.  
ANSWER:  ammonia  [accept  NH 
3 
 until mentioned] 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 2 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
C. The mythological tradition of this country contains many stories of  immrama , which are tales of  
voyages, such as the one of Ui Chorra. One story in this mythology deals with Briccriu’s beheading  
challenge. According to this country’s mythos, it was once ruled by the Fir Bolg, who were conquered by  
the Tuatha de Danann. The two main texts of this country’s mythology are the Fenian and Ulster Cycles.  
For 10 points, name this mythological tradition that contains such figures as Finn MacCool and Deirdre.  
ANSWER:  Ireland 
 [or  Irish ? or  Celtic ? do not accept “Welsh” or “Wales”]  
E. One specific type of this process is dependent on spherical particles. In addition to that type named  
for Mie, another type of this process occurs when there are time2dependent density variations in a  
material, and is named for Brillouin. If x2rays undergo this process and speed up, this process is named  
after Sunyaev and Zeldovich, and if the x2rays slow, it is named after Compton. When this happens to a  
photon inelastically, it is named after Raman. For 10 points, name this process, the Rayleigh type of  
which explains why the sky is blue.  
ANSWER:  scatter 
ing [do not accept any specific form of scattering]  
G. One of them develops the homologs Pif1p and Rrm8p and was developed as an experimental model  
by Murdoch Mitchison. In addition to that one with a Swahili species name, pombe, another is used to  
counteract acute diarrhea symptoms in children and is known as Boulardii. Their presence is tested with  
methylene blue, and several of the  Candida  genus cause namesake vaginal infections. Cycloheximide  
inhibits growth of the  Saccharomyces  genus, of which  cerevisiae  ferments beers. For 10 points, name  
this class of fungi which are used to make bread.  
ANSWER:  yeast 
s  
H. During a revolt in the Netherlands that became a part of the Thirty Years War, this family lost their  
Dutch lands. The Dutch did support them in the War of the Spanish Succession, where Louis the  
Fourteenth worked to put Philip of Anjou, a Bourbon, on the throne in their place. This family produced  
Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, and a woman who was the focus of the Pragmatic Sanction and lost  
Silesia in the Seven Years War, Maria Theresa. For 10 points, name this family that ruled Austria until the  
end of World War I.  
ANSWER:  Hapsburg 
 [prompt on  House of Austria ]  
10. This is the first name of a Latin singer who hit it big with the songs @Tu Sonrisa@ and @Suavamente.@  
Another singer of this first name played the first few seconds of @Less than Zero@ during a  Saturday  
Night Live  appearance before abruptly switching to his protest song about the homogoneity of  
broadcast music, @Radio Radio.@ In addition to that leader of The Attractions, a man with this first name  
sang @I don't want no other loveKBaby it's just you I'm thinking of@ in his song @Don't Be Cruel.@ For 10  
points, give this first name of performers Crespo, Costello, and Presley.  
ANSWER:  Elvis  
11. In one of this author's novels, Lail Hightower has a vision of an enormous wheel, and Percy Lrimm  
shoots a man who killed Joanna Burden. Rosa Coldfield narrates another of this author's novels, which  
focuses on the father of Charles Bon, Thomas Sutpen. In one of his novels, Cash loses his leg and Darl is  
taken to an insane asylum during a journey to Jefferson to bury Addie Bundren. For 10 points, name this  
American author, who set many of his novels in Yoknapatawpha County, including  Light in August As I  ,  
Lay Dying , and  The Sound and the Fury .  
ANSWER: William  Faulkner 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 3 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
12. One author from this country wrote  Marco Bruto , and had a lifelong rivalry with Longora. A  
playwright from this country wrote  The Stupid Lady The Dog in the Manger ,  , and  The Sheep Well , while a  
literary movement in this country included Ramon Valle2Inclan, Pio Baroja, and Antonio Machado, the  
Leneration of 'HG. For 10 points, name this European country, home to the authors Calderon de la Barca  
and Lope de Vega.  
ANSWER:  Spain  
18. This man wrote a short story in which a short man desires to hack out the narrator’s eyes to make a  
bouquet of blue eyeballs for his girlfriend. In addition to that story, “Blue Bouquet,” found in his  Eagle or  
Sun? , he also wrote the collection  The Bow and the Lyre . One of his poems is divided like an Aztec  
calendar, and he wrote about his country’s traditions of “siesta” and “machismo” in a critical essay. For  
10 points, name this author who wrote “Sun Stone” and  The Labyrinth of Solitude , a Mexican poet.  
ANSWER: Octavio  Paz  
1>. McClellan fought a battle called Philippi Races in this state to defend the B and O railroad, and the  
Battle of Rich Mountain here led to McClellan’s promotion. The senior Senator from this state chairs the  
Appropriations Committee and was part of the Lang of Fourteen in 200A, opposing the “nuclear  
option.” For 10 points, identify this state whose senior Senator is Robert Byrd, and which joined the  
Union on the last day of 1GC2 by seceding from its Eastern neighbor.  
ANSWER:  West Virginia  
1A. Individuals who lack the Duffy antigens are immune to the  vivax  form of this disease. This disease is  
sometimes diagnosed through Wolbach’s tissue stain, though the Liemsa stain is more commonly used.  
A canonical example of the heterozygote advantage occurs because sickle2cell heterozygotes are  
resistant to this disease. For 10 points, name this disease, treatable by quinine, which is caused by the  
plasmodium parasite and transmitted by the Anopheles mosquito.  
ANSWER:  malaria  
1C. Paul Zukofsky considered this man's  Freeman Etudes  unplayable. Merce Cunningham choreographed  
his ballet  The Seasons , and he collaborated with his teacher Henry Cowell on  Marriage at the Eiffel  
Tower . Several works by this man feature pieces of metal and glass positioned between the strings of a  
“prepared” piano. This composer's  Imaginary Landscape  series is an example of aleatoric music, and  
another work involves a pianist sitting quietly for the titular amount of time. For 10 points, name this  
composer of  4(33”  Mfour minutes and thirty2three secondsN.  
ANSWER: John  Cage  
1E. This state's Niobrara County sees the origin of the Niobrara River, and the Flaming Lorge dam lies  
along the Lreen River, which originates in its Wind River mountains. Boysen Reservoir is formed by a  
dam on this state's Wind River. The Lanette peak is the highest point in this state, closely followed by  
the Lrand Teton peak, and another of its cities is home to Vice2President Dick Cheney, Jackson Hole.  
Also home to Yellowstone National Park, for 10 points, identify this state with capital Cheyenne.  
ANSWER:  Wyoming 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 4 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
1G. Berlinite is a phosphate mineral which has a structure similar to this mineral, and crystals of this  
mineral which are green are known as prasiolite or vermarine. A variant of it, which usually forms in  
large, concentric layers, is known as agate. Amethyst and citrine are variants of this mineral, which is the  
bottom2most mineral on the Bowen’s reaction series. It also has a value of seven on the Mohs hardness  
scale. For 10 points, identify this mineral which is less common than feldspar, and is made of crystallized  
silica.  
ANSWER:  quartz 
 [prompt on  silica  or  silicon dioxide ]  
1H. In the 1HC0s, this man wrote church parables whose performances were intended for the Orford  
Church. Those works include  Curlew River  and  The Burning Fiery Furnace . Many of this man's operas  
contained a part for the tenor Peter Pears, including  Owen Wingrave The Turn of the Screw ,  , and  Albert  
Herring . His first major opera was based on Leorge Crabbe's poem @The Borough,@ and centers on a  
fisherman who commits suicide after the accidental death of two of his apprentices. For 10 points, name  
this English composer of  Peter Grimes .  
ANSWER: Benjamin  Britten  
20. Philip Wharton's song @Lili Burlero@ was a ballad that played a part in this event, and the Nonjurors  
refused to take an oath of allegiance to the victors in this event. It resulted in the Edict of Toleration and  
the Bill of Rights, and it was instigated in part by Charles Talbot's invitation to a certain royal couple.  
Resulting in the ouster of James II, for 10 points, name this 1CGG to 1CGH event in which William and  
Mary came to the throne of England.  
ANSWER: the  Glorious Revolution  
21. The Papal Bull  Omne Datum Optimum  exempted this group from taxation, and they were executed  
en masse after the Battle of Hattin. They were condemned at the Council of Vienne by Clement V, and  
Phillip IV persecuted them and had Jacques de Molay, their last grandmaster, burned at the stake. They  
were established with the help of Bernard of Clairvaux with the purpose of guarding pilgrims to the Holy  
Land. For 10 points, name this military order named for their base, which was above the ruins of the  
Temple of Solomon.  
ANSWER: Onights  Templar 
 [or Poor  Knights of Christ  and of the Temple of Solomon? or  Knights of the  
Temple ] 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 5 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
Fall 2008  
ACF-Format Set #2  
Round 15  
Bonuses  
1. Deryck Cooke may be best known for @completing@ a performable version of this man's tenth  
symphony. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Austrian composer of symphonies nicknamed @Tragic@ and @Titan,@ whose socialite wife  
went on to marry Walter Lropius and Franz Werfel after this man's death.  
ANSWER: Lustav  Mahler  
[10] This Mahler symphony, partly based on Loethe's  Faust , earned its popular nickname from its use of  
a 1E12member orchestra and GA02member chorus.  
ANSWER: Symphony No.  8 
 [or  Symphony of a Thousand ? or  Eighth  symphony]  
[10] @Youth@ and @The Drunkard in Spring@ are two of the four songs based on Li Po poems in this six2 
song Mahler song cycle.  
ANSWER:  Das  Lied von der Erde 
 [or  The  Song of the Earth ]  
2. His work led to the concept of “scaffolding.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Soviet psychologist who named the difference between a child’s ability to do a task  
without help and its need to do a task with help “zones of proximal development.”  
ANSWER: Lev  Vygotsky 
[10] This other developmental psychologist believed in “genetic epistemology” and proposed four stages  
of development, including sensorimotor, preoperational, and concrete operational.  
ANSWER: Jean  Piaget  
[10] “Oral” and “genital” stages are among the five2part model developed by this author of  Civilization  
and its Discontents0  
ANSWER: Sigmund  Freud  
8. Lee, Osheroff, and Richardson won the 1HHC Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering it in a certain  
isotope. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this property exhibited by fluids that experience frictionless flow.  
ANSWER:  superfluidity 
[10] Superfluidity is exhibited at temperatures of less than 2.1E Oelvin in one isotope of this element,  
whose atomic mass is approximately > amu MA2M2UN.  
ANSWER:  helium 
[10] The critical temperature of 2.E Oelvin is also known as this point. This letter of the Lreek alphabet is  
also the namesake of a phage that infects  E0 coli .  
ANSWER:  lambda 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 6 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
>. The Empire of Japan committed numerous atrocities during World War II. For 10 points each:  
[10] Leneral Matsui Iwane ordered hundreds of thousands of rapes and killings in this city, which  
included the infamous contest between two officers to kill one hundred people with their swords.  
ANSWER:  Nanking  
[10] About ten thousand American and Filipino soldiers died in this infamous ordeal in which Allied  
POWs were forced to march from Mariveles to Camp O'Donnell.  
ANSWER:  Bataan 
 Death March  
[10] This prime minister of Japan during most of World War II was executed for war crimes.  
ANSWER: Hideki  Tojo   
A. Identify the following from Mendelian genetics, for 10 points each.  
[10] This law implies that an offspring inherits two alleles for a gene, one from each parent.  
ANSWER: Law of  Segregation 
[10] This other law implies that when several different traits are considered, the passing of one trait  
from a parent to offspring does not influence which other traits are passed on.  
ANSWER: law of  independent assortment 
[10] Named for an Englishman, these entities are used to represent the possible genotypes for each  
offspring given the genotype of each parent.  
ANSWER:  Punnett 
 squares  
C. If this star becomes a supernova, it’ll be far brighter than the Moon in our night sky. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this variable star, the second2brightest star in its constellation but considered the alpha,  
which has a chromosphere extending seven times its actual diameter.  
ANSWER:  Betelgeuse 
[10] This brightest star in Orion is the sixth brightest in the sky, as well as the most luminous in the Orion  
arm until Deneb.  
ANSWER:  Rigel 
[10] Polaris is a member of this class of variable stars, which the Hubble space telescope identified in the  
Virgo cluster. Its namesake was discovered in 1EG> by John Loodricke.  
ANSWER:  Cepheid 
 variable stars  
E. He wrote that “the world is too much with us late and soon? late and soon,” and exclaimed “MiltonP  
thou should'st be living at this hour” in “London 1G02.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Lake Poet and author of “Tintern Abbey.”  
ANSWER: William  Wordsworth  
[10] This friend of Wordsworth wrote about Xanadu in “Oubla Oahn” and the shooting of an albatross in  
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner .  
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor  Coleridge  
[10] This collaboration between Wordsworth and Coleridge included both “Tintern Abbey” and  The Rime  
of the Ancient Mariner .  
ANSWER:  Lyrical Ballads 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 7 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
G. It called for Lermany to focus most of its troops on the Western Front to knock out France, allowing  
Lermany to shift its troops against the Russians. For 10 points each:  
[10] Named for the chief of the Lerman general staff, identify this military plan which was used by  
Lermany in the early years of World War II.  
ANSWER:  Schlieffen 
 Plan  
[10] In this 1H1> battle, French infantrymen were transported to the front by taxis, and as a result of this  
battle, the Lerman army was unable to take Paris, thwarting the Schlieffen Plan.  
ANSWER: Battle of the  Marne 
[10] This man served as commander in chief of French forces on the Western Front from 1H1> to 1H1C  
and became known as the “Victor of the Marne.”  
ANSWER: Joseph  Joffre  
H. Name these novels by Thomas Hardy, for 10 points each.  
[10] Clym Yeobright’s marriage to Eustacia Vye ends tragically when she drowns herself.  
ANSWER:  The  Return of the Native  
[10] The title politician, Michael Henchard, is ruined when it is revealed that he sold his wife and child to  
the highest bidder while drunk.  
ANSWER:  The  Mayor of Casterbridge  
[10] The protagonist only spends a few days with Angel Clare before being hanged for stabbing Alec.  
ANSWER:  Tess of the D’Urbervilles  
10. In it Socrates argues that using an immoral act to respond to injustice is wrong. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this dialogue in which the namesake figure offers to bribe Socrates’ way out of jail.  
ANSWER:  Crito 
[10] Along with  Euthyphro  and  Protagoras Crito ,   is one of the many dialogues containing Socrates  
written by this student of Socrates.  
ANSWER:  Plato 
[10] This other Platonic dialogue contains the argument that a man cannot harm one of his betters, one  
of the arguments presented by Socrates in his defense at his trial.  
ANSWER:  Apology 
 [or  Apologia ]  
11. An advertisement for Phillies cigars can be seen above the window in this painting, through which a  
man in a suit and a woman in a red dress can be seen sitting at a counter. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this painting which depicts a sparsely populated diner at the title time of day.  
ANSWER:  Nighthawks  
[10]  Nighthawks  was painted by this member of the Ashcan School, who also depicted some storefronts  
in  Early Sunday Morning .  
ANSWER: Edward  Hopper  
[10] This other member of the Ashcan School contributed artwork to  The Masses , and he’s known for  
boxing scenes like  Dempsey and Firpo  and  Stag at Sharkey’s .  
ANSWER: Leorge Wesley  Bellows 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 8 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
12. The silver salt of this element’s anion is sometimes used to seed clouds. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this element with chemical symbol I.  
ANSWER:  Iodine 
[10] Iodine belongs to this class of elements whose other members include Bromine and chlorine. Their  
name literally means salt2forming.  
ANSWER:  halogen 
s  
[10] A reaction named after some Lerman and Russian chemists sees the alpha halogenation of these  
compounds which feature a terminal COOH group.  
ANSWER:  carboxylic acid 
s  
18. He dissolved Parliament in October 200G and called for an election in hopes of gaining a majority.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this leader of the Conservative party and current prime minister of Canada.  
ANSWER: Stephen  Harper 
[10] Jack Layton currently leads this party with a progressive agenda, and which received eighteen  
percent of the popular vote in 200G, which gave it thirty2seven seats in the parliament.  
ANSWER:  NDP 
 [or  NPD ? or New  Democratic Party ? or  Nouveau Parti Democratique ]  
[10] This third largest party won forty2nine seats in the elections. It is currently led by Liles Duceppe,  
and calls for the recognition of its namesake province as a “separate nation” within Canada.  
ANSWER:  Bloc Québécois 
1>. For 10 points each, name these mythological trickster gods.  
[10] This devious Norse god convinced Hodr to kill Balder and is tied up with a snake dripping venom  
over him as punishment.  
ANSWER:  Loki 
[10] This spider from Ashanti lore catches a jaguar and some hornets and has a memorable encounter  
with a tar baby.  
ANSWER:  Anansi 
[10] This Native American trickster is sometimes said to have created humanity out of mud. The Wasco  
believe he killed the evil Thunderbird.  
ANSWER:  Coyote  
1A. He names a twisted tower he designed in Hanover, and his  DZ Bank Building  in Berlin is located  
immediately in front of the Brandenburg Late. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this American architect of Seattle’s  Experience Music Project , whose buildings often features  
distinctive sculpted titanium or stainless steel exteriors.  
ANSWER: Frank Owen  Gehry 
 [or Ephraim Owen  Goldberg ]  
[10] Lehry’s best known work is one of these museums located in Bilbao, Spain. Frank Lloyd Wright  
designed another one located in New York.  
ANSWER:  Guggenheim 
 Museum  
[10] This concert hall located in Los Angeles is another Lehry design, along with acoustics expertise from  
Yasuhisa Toyota.  
ANSWER:  Walt  Disney 
 Concert Hall 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 9 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
1C. In the final act of this play, Don Parritt commits suicide by jumping off a fire escape. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this play about traveling salesman Hickey, who tries to convince the denizens of Harry Hope's  
bar to give up their “pipe dreams.”  
ANSWER:  The  Iceman Cometh  
[10] This American playwright of  The Emperor Jones  and  Long Day(s Journey Into Night  wrote  The  
Iceman Cometh .  
ANSWER: Eugene  O7Neill  
[10] Inspired by the  Oresteia , this trilogy by O'Neill includes  Homecoming The Hunted ,  , and  The Haunted ,  
and centers on the Oedipal desires of Orin and Lavinia Mannon.  
ANSWER:  Mourning Becomes Electra  
1E. Adam Mickiewicz wrote this country's national epic,  Pan Tadeusz . For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this European country, also the birthplace of the author of  Quo Vadis? , Henryk Sienkewicz.  
ANSWER:  Poland 
[10] This other European country's national epics include  Parsifal , written by Wolfram von Eschenbach,  
and the  Nibelungenlied , which inspired Richard Wagner's Ring Cycle.  
ANSWER:  Germany  
[10] Elias Lonnrot compiled this country's national epic, the  Kalevala , which features the exploits of  
Ilmarinen, Lemminkainen, and Vainamoinen.  
ANSWER:  Finland  
1G. All the rivers in this country, including the The, Ou, and Oading, are tributaries to the Mekong. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this country with capital at Vientiane.  
ANSWER:  Laos 
 [or Sathalanalat Paxathipatai Paxaxôn  Lao ? or  Lao  People’s Democratic Republic]  
[10] On the Xiangkhoang plateau in Laos, a plain named for these prehistoric objects is drained by the  
Ngum River. It is home to a number of airfields that were used against the Pathet Lao.  
ANSWER:  jars 
 [or  Plain of Jars ? or  Plain des Jarres ? or  Thong Haihin ]  
[10] The Mekong River reaches the Pacific in this nation. The Lulf of Tonkin is found in its Red River  
delta, while its capital is Hanoi.  
ANSWER: Socialist Republic of  Vietnam 
 [or Cong Hoa Xa Hoi Chu Nghia  Viet Nam ]  
1H. This architect designed the  North Christian Church  in Columbus, Indiana, as well as the  Kresge  
Auditorium  at MIT. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Finnish architect who also designed  Dulles International Airport .  
ANSWER: Eero  Saarinen  
[10] Saarinen is best known for this stainless steel monument, part of the Jefferson National Expansion  
Memorial in St. Louis, Missouri.  
ANSWER:  Gateway Arch 
  [prompt on St. Louis  Arch ]  
[10] In addition to Dulles, Saarinen has designed the  TWA Flight Center  at this airport, known for its  
shell2like design.  
ANSWER:  JFK 
 International Airport [or John F.  Kennedy  International Airport? or  Idlewild  Airport] 
Fall 2008 ACF-Format Set #2  Round 15  Page 10 of 10  
© 2008 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.  
It is prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ.  
20. He was jailed for what were interpreted as threats of anti2English violence in his newspaper  United  
Ireland . For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Irish politician who signed the Oilmainham Treaty and worked for Irish Home Rule until  
being defamed in the Oitty O’Shea affair.  
ANSWER: Charles Stuart  Parnell  
[10] The other signatory of the Oilmainham Treaty was this four time British prime minister, the leader  
of the Liberal Party and rival of Benjamin Disraeli.  
ANSWER: William Ewart  Gladstone  
[10] Lladstone was publicly blamed for the death of this British Leneral in the fall of Ohartoum to the  
forces of the Mahdi.  
ANSWER: Charles Leorge  Gordon  
21. During the action of this play, the title character's offspring Eilif, Swiss Cheese, and Oattrin all die. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name this play about Anna Fierling, who earns a living by pulling a canteen during the Thirty Years'  
War.  
ANSWER:  Mother Courage and Her Children  
[10] This Lerman proponent of “epic theater” wrote  Mother Courage and Her Children , as well as  The  
Good Woman of Szechwan  and  The Caucausian Chalk Circle .  
ANSWER: Bertolt  Brecht  
[10] Brecht wrote about the rule of this dictator in both his allegory  The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui  and  
The Private Life of the Master Race .  
ANSWER: Adolf  Hitler 
