VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Members of this movement were drowned out by shouts of “Obama” after they mike-checked him at a 
New Hampshire speech. Roseanne Barr delivered a speech to members of this movement on its first day. 
Anthony Bologna was maced while participating in this movement that was started by Adbusters. Members 
of this movement were kicked out of Zuccoti Park for sanitary purposes. For 10 points name this protest 
movement that is centered in New York City and claims the phrase “We are the 99 percent.” 
ANSWER:  
Occupy Wall Street 
 [or  
OWS 
] 
149-13-93-05101 
2. Bourdon gauges are used to measure this quantity. This quantity can be measured in units of length by 
dividing it by fluid density and by gravitational acceleration. Add 760 torr to the “relative” value of this 
quantity in order to get its “absolute” form, which takes into account the atmospheric component. Other 
units to measure this quantity include millimeters of mercury, bars, and atmospheres. For 10 points, name 
this quantity equal to force over area. 
ANSWER:  
pressure 
190-13-93-05102 
3. The investment firm 3G Capital, run by two brothers from this country, masterminded an insider trading 
deal to expedite Berkshire Hathway's buyout of Heinz Co. In this country, the Pacifying Police Units 
oppose rioting. Recent social unrest in this country has been sparked by the decision to eradicate several of 
this country's favela shantytowns to build stadiums. For 10 points, name this South American country that 
will host the 2014 FIFA World Cup. 
ANSWER: Federative Republic of  
Brazil 
 [or Republica Federativa do  
Brasil 
] 
020-13-93-05103 
4. These cells have a glycoprotein outer coating called the zona pellucida. In mammals, the development of 
these cells is aided by granulosa cells. In some plants, these cells are formed from megaspores. When they 
are formed, three polar bodies are formed and degenerate. Their release leads to the formation of the corpus 
luteum from the follicle. These haploid cells always contain an X chromosome and form a zygote upon 
merging with another type of cell. For 10 points, name these gametes that are fertilized by sperm cells. 
ANSWER:  
egg 
 cells [or  
ovum 
; or  
ova 
; or o 
ocyte 
s; or  
ovocyte 
s; or  
ovarian follicle 
s; prompt on  
gametocyte 
; prompt on  
gamete 
s] 
232-13-93-05104 
5. One example of this type of poem describes a frog jumping into an old pond; that work was written by 
the best known author of these poems, whose collections include  
Seashell Game 
 and  
Narrow Road to the 
Deep North 
. They usually include a word that somehow defines the season in which they take place. 
Matsuo Basho wrote poems of this type that evolved from a part of the  
renga 
. Popular in Japan in the 18th 
and 19th Centuries, for 10 points, name this type of short poem whose seventeen syllables are arranged into 
a 5-7-5 pattern. 
ANSWER:  
haiku 
040-13-93-05105 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  1 of 9 
6. This actor played “Pretty Boy” Floyd, who is killed by Melvin Purvis in the opening of  
Public Enemies 
. 
He wore a mask and a leash as the pet of a cannibalistic Danny McBride in  
This Is the End 
. In one role, this 
actor and Jonah Hill bust a high school drug ring as part of an undercover unit. In another movie, he and 
Matthew McConaughey work at the Equisite Strip Club. For 10 points, name this star of  
21 Jump Street 
and  
Magic Mike 
. 
ANSWER: Channing  
Tatum 
015-13-93-05106 
7. This curve is obtained when using the parametrization x equals velocity times t times cosine of theta and 
y equals velocity times t times sine of theta minus half gravity times t squared. That parametrization is for 
the trajectory of a projectile. This curve can be described as the locus of all points equidistant from a focus 
and the directrix. The eccentricity of these conic sections is one. For 10 points, identify this curve whose 
canonical example is y equals x squared. 
ANSWER:  
parabola 
 [prompt on  
quadratic 
 curve] 
066-13-93-05107 
8. In Act II of this play, one character has become blind and another has become mute. The set of this play 
consists of a tree and takes place on a country road. The inaction and anxiety of this play has led some to 
consider it as a representation of the Cold War. For 10 points, name this play that includes Pozzo and 
Lucky, a Samuel Beckett work in which Vladimir and Estragon do not meet the title character. 
ANSWER:  
Waiting for Godot 
 [or  
En Attendant Godot 
] 
030-13-93-05108 
9. Richard Lenski began an ongoing evolution experiment on this organism in 1988. This organism can 
produce vitamin K2, but not K1. This organism commonly supplies the vector for molecular cloning, when 
a strand of interest is ligated into one of its plasmids. Thus, this organism is responsible for most 
production of synthetic insulin. For 10 points, name this Gram-negative prokaryote living in human 
intestines, a model bacterium which can also cause food poisoning. 
ANSWER:  scherichia  
E coli 
190-13-93-05109 
10. The protagonist of this book is asked for cheese when he first meets another character. That protagonist 
is forced to kill the villainous Israel Hands. This novel begins at a tavern where blind Pew gives Billy 
Bones the “black spot.” A supporting character in this book is the marooned Ben Gunn. The protagonist is 
youthful Jim Hawkins, who joins a crew to discover the treasure of Captain Flint. For 10 points, name this 
Robert Louis Stevenson novel about pirates like Long John Silver. 
ANSWER:  
Treasure Island 
052-13-93-05110 
11. This character was born on the same day as Susan, the daughter of her attendant, who calls this woman 
a “lamb” and “ladybird.” She is courted by Count Paris, who ends up dying outside her crypt. This 
character is given a drug by Friar Laurence to go into a deathlike state, and her cousin Tybalt kills 
Mercutio. She stabs herself with a dagger after realizing her true love has drank poison. For 10 points, 
name this female member of the Capulet family, the lover of Romeo in a William Shakespeare play. 
ANSWER:  
Juliet 
 [prompt on  
Capulet 
 until mentioned] 
052-13-93-05111 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  2 of 9 
12. For an object in uniform circular motion, this quantity equals angular velocity squared times radius. 
Final velocity squared minus initial velocity squared equals two times displacement times this quantity. In 
another relationship, one half this quantity times time squared gives the displacement of an object starting 
from rest. For 10 points, name this quantity equal to force divided by mass in Newton’s Second Law, the 
time derivative of velocity. 
ANSWER: linear  
acceleration 
 [or centripetal  
acceleration 
] 
190-13-93-05112 
13. A character in this play notes that, “no woman should ever be quite accurate about her age. It looks so 
calculating.” Dr. Chasuble schedules two christenings, on the same day, for two men wishing to acquire the 
same name, but is stopped when Miss Prism explains about the handbag she’d left at Victoria Station years 
before. Therefore, Cecily and Gwendolen can marry Jack and Algernon, who are really brothers. For 10 
points, name this comedy written by Oscar Wilde. 
ANSWER:  
The  Importance of Being Earnest 
190-13-93-05113 
14. This man’s namesake temperature equals surface gravity over two pi. This man calculated the 
proportionality constant between entropy and surface area in a formula he co-names with Bekenstein. With 
Penrose, he names a theorem stating that singularities can be “space-like” or “time-like”, and this Lucasian 
Chair from 1979 to 2009 also predicted that black holes emit radiation. For 10 points, name this 
ALS-suffering author of  
A Brief History of Time 
. 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Hawking 
190-13-93-05114 
15. Towards the end of this book, the protagonist becomes the first black streetcar conductor in San 
Francisco before trying to get pregnant to prove to herself that she is not a lesbian. That protagonist, who 
makes friends with Louise Kendricks, is raped by Mr. Freeman but inspired to write by Bertha Flowers. 
This book begins with the protagonist and her brother Bailey moving to Stamps, Arkansas to live with their 
grandmother. For 10 points, name this autobiography by Maya Angelou. 
ANSWER:  
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings 
192-13-93-05115 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  What grammatical case is used in German for subjects such as \"ich\" and \"du?\" 
ANSWER:  
nominative 
 case 
1B.  What largest city in Turkey is split by the Golden Horn? 
ANSWER:  
Istanbul 
2A.  Name the Japanese novelist who wrote  
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion 
 and the  
Sea of Fertility 
tetralogy. 
ANSWER: Yukio  
Mishima 
 [or  
Mishima 
 Yukio] 
2B.  In what dialogue does Socrates use the allegory of the cave and describe an ideal society ruled by 
philosopher-kings? 
ANSWER:  
The  Republic 
3A.  Carnegie Mellon University is located in what city that is located at the confluence of the Allegheny 
and Monogahela rivers? 
ANSWER:  
Pittsburgh 
, Pennsylvania 
3B.  What leader of the Chinese Revolution was the founder of the Kuomintang Party? 
ANSWER:  
Sun 
 Yat-sen 
4A.  The most expensive painting ever sold was  
The Card Players 
, a work by what Frenchman also known 
for his still life paintings? 
ANSWER: Paul  
Cezanne 
4B.  What branch of mathematics studies systems which are very sensitive to their starting conditions, like 
a double pendulum? 
ANSWER:  
chaos 
 theory 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Labels for six packages going to six different cities are 
randomly placed on the packages. What is the probability that each package is sent to the correct city? 
ANSWER:  
1/720 
 [prompt on  
1 over 6 factorial 
] 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. The five-digit number 7x438 (\"seven, x, four, three, eight\") is 
divisible by 9. What digit is x? 
ANSWER:  
5 
6A.  What Hawaiian goddess of fire, wind, and volcanoes resides in the caldera of Kilauea? 
ANSWER:  
Pele 
6B.  What quantity is the energy required to remove an electron away from an atom, creating a cation? 
ANSWER:  
ionization 
 potential [or  
ionization 
 energy] 
7A.  What Arabic city was home to the ancient House of Wisdom, where the mathematicians that helped 
develop algebra worked at? 
ANSWER:  
Baghdad 
7B.  What Frankish king had himself crowned Holy Roman Emperor by the Pope on Christmas Day, 800? 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
 [or  
Charles the Great 
; or  
Charles I 
; or  
Carolus Magnus 
] 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  4 of 9 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The long edges of an 6 x 10 inch piece of notebook paper are 
taped together to form a tube. What is the volume of air enclosed by the tube? Express your answer in 
terms of pi. 
ANSWER:  
90 over pi 
 cubic inches 
8B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A regular octagon with side length 4 inches is oriented like a 
stop sign. Four diagonals are drawn, two vertical and two horizontal, which divide the octagon into four 
triangles, four rectangles, and one square. What is the area of the square? 
ANSWER:   square units 
16 
9A.  What NHL team captained by Jonathan Toews defeated the Philadelphia Flyers and the Boston Bruins 
to win the 2010 and 2013 Stanley Cups? 
ANSWER: Chicago Black 
hawks 
 [or  
Chicago 
] 
9B.  What psychologist coined the term “identity crisis” and outlined a series of internal conflicts in his 
eight stages of psychosocial development? 
ANSWER: Erik  
Erikson 
10A.  The Well of Zamzam is visited and a stone representing the devil is stoned during what pilgrimage to 
Mecca? 
ANSWER:  
Hajj 
10B.  What German composer wrote the  
Academic Festival Overture 
 and a famous lullaby? 
ANSWER: Johannes  
Brahms 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This Constitutional amendment was the subject of the  
U.S. v. Leon 
 decision, which established a \"good 
faith\" exception. The  
Weeks v. U.S. 
 case established the federal exclusionary rule for enforcing this 
amendment, which was extended to states in  
Mapp v. Ohio. 
 This amendment was inspired by the \"writs of 
assistance\" and \"general warrants\" issued by British colonial governments. Identify this amendment which 
protects individuals from unreasonable search and seizure. 
ANSWER:  
Fourth 
 Amemdment 
019-13-93-05117 
2. In a poem, this man describes a \"delicate monster\" who \"dreams of the gallows in the haze of the 
hookah.\" T. S. Eliot's \"The Waste Land\" references this poet's line about a \"hypocritical reader, my 
likeness, my brother!\" This poet is perhaps best known for a work containing sections such as \"Wine\" and 
\"Spleen and Ideal,\" which influenced the Symbolists. For 10 points, identify this French poet who wrote  
Les Fleurs du Mal. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Baudelaire 
126-13-93-05118 
3. A city in this state built a bridge with an inscription saying that while that city “makes, the world takes”. 
The “crime of the century” perpetrated by Bruno Hauptmann happened in this state. Its town of Manchester 
saw the explosion of the  
Hindenburg 
. This location of the Lindbergh kidnapping also produced inventions 
like the phonograph at Menlo Park. For 10 points, name this state home to Thomas Edison, whose cities 
include Paterson, Trenton and Princeton. 
ANSWER:  
New Jersey 
232-13-93-05119 
4. During a visit to the United States, this man was disgusted by the film  
Can-Can 
 and angry that he could 
not visit Disneyland. This world leader gave the “Secret Speech” against his predecessor. He banned 
publication of the novel  
Doctor Zhivago 
. This man banged his shoe on his desk in a 1960 UN meeting, and 
his country sought to install nuclear weapons during the Cuban Missile Crisis. For 10 points, name this 
leader of the Soviet Union who succeeded Josef Stalin. 
ANSWER: Nikita  
Khrushchev 
052-13-93-05120 
5. On Titan, this molecule cycles through the moon analogously to water on Earth. This molecule forms 
clathrates with water ice on the ocean floor. Massive amount of this molecule would be released by the 
melting of permafrost and greatly contribute to global warming. This tetrahedral molecule is the simplest 
alkane. For 10 points, identify this principal component of natural gas, a hydrocarbon with formula CH4. 
ANSWER:  
methane 
 [or  
CH4 
 before mention] 
234-13-93-05121 
6. A poem inspired by the death of this man includes a carol praising death as “lovely and soothing.” That 
poem describes this man as a “powerful western fallen star.” Another poem about this man’s death states, 
“the ship has weathered every rack, the prize we sought is won,” before recognizing that the title man has 
“fallen cold and dead.” For 10 points, name this man elegized by Walt Whitman in “When Lilacs Last in 
the Dooryard Bloom’d” and “O Captain! My Captain!” 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Lincoln 
014-13-93-05122 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  6 of 9 
7. These structures are called sparse if they are mostly filled with zeros. When each element of these 
structures contains another of these structures, they are called jagged. In Java, these data structures may 
exist as hybrid “Lists”, in which case they can be heterogeneous. When two-dimensional, these objects are 
often called matrices, while one-dimensional ones are called vectors. For 10 points, name these ordered, 
linear collections of data often represented with square brackets. 
ANSWER:  
array 
s [or  
matrices 
 or  
matrix 
 before mention; or  
vector 
s before mention] 
190-13-93-05123 
8. A current man to hold this position said he was once the victim of a “high-tech lynching for uppity 
blacks.” That former Education Department official almost failed to earn this position after being accused 
of sexual harassment by Anita Hill. Robert Bork’s nomination to this position failed during the Reagan 
presidency. For 10 points, name this position whose first female occupant was Sandra Day O’Connor, and 
which is currently held by men like Clarence Thomas. 
ANSWER:  
Supreme Court Justice 
 [prompt on  
judge 
, do not accept “Chief Justice”] 
052-13-93-05124 
9. During his Eastern Journey, this man survived an assassination attempt in the Otsu Incident. This man 
secretly supported a wave of pogroms in his country, and in his diary this man declared the \"Bloody 
Sunday\" massacre to be a \"Bad Day!\" This monarch refused to accept defeat in a 1905 war with Japan until 
his Baltic fleet was annihilated after going around the world. For 10 points, name this final czar of the 
Romanov dynasty who was executed with his family in 1917. 
ANSWER:  
Nicholas II 
 Romanov [prompt on  
Nicholas 
] 
002-13-93-05125 
10. This game won the 2009 Spiel des Jahres award for its designer Donald X. Vaccarino. Each turn 
consists of three phases often abbreviated ABC: Action, Buy and Cleanup. The basic types of cards used 
are Action, Reaction, Curse, Treasure and Victory. Members of the last category include Duchies and 
Provinces, with Colonies in the Prosperity expansion. For 10 points, name the card game in which players 
buy victory points after starting with 3 estate and 7 copper cards. 
ANSWER:  
Dominion 
147-13-93-05126 
11. This city located on the southwest shore of Guanabara Bay is the site of Mount Corcovado. A cable car 
in this city can be used to reach Sugarloaf Mountain. A two and a half mile beach is located in this city's 
Copacabana neighborhood. Heitor da Silva Costa designed this city's colossal statue of Jesus with his arms 
outstretched. For 10 points, name this city that has the  
Christ the Redeemer 
 statue and is the second-largest 
city in Brazil after Sao Paulo. 
ANSWER:  
Rio 
 de Janeiro 
023-13-93-05127 
12. In one film produced by a director from this country, a flashback reveals that a boy could not hold his 
brother's weight while playing the harmonica. In another film directed by that man from this country, Lee 
Van Cleef plays \"Angel Eyes,\" who races Tuco and Clint Eastwood's unnamed character to a graveyard 
stash of Confederate gold. For 10 points, identify this country whose cinematic output includes Sergio 
Leone's  
The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly 
, among other \"spaghetti westerns.\" 
ANSWER:  
Italy 
233-13-93-05128 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  7 of 9 
13. One character in this story plays tunes that are described as sadder than Weber’s final waltz. The 
narrator of this storyrecalls the singing of a song in his childhood called “The Haunted Palace.” Towards 
this story’s end, a book by Launcelot Canning about a knight named Ethelred,  
The Mad Trist, 
 is read. In 
this story, Roderick dies after Madeleine, who had been buried under the title structure, reappears. For 10 
points, name this short story, featured in  
Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque 
, by Edgar Allan Poe. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Fall of the House of Usher 
\" 
192-13-93-05129 
14. One equation used to find this value requires knowing the path length through a cell and multiplying 
that by the extinction coefficient. That equation for finding this value comes from the Beer-Lambert law. 
One piece of lab equipment can be used to create a spectrum of this logarithmic value versus wavelength. 
This value that can be found with the use of a spectrophotometer is equal to the log of one over the 
transmittance. For 10 points, name this concept in chemistry that leads to colors by causing certain 
wavelengths of light to not be reflected back. 
ANSWER:  
absorption 
 [or  
absorbance 
; accept word forms] 
023-13-93-05130 
15. A nearly blind virtuoso who played this instrument produced a classic recording of \"Tea for Two.\" 
Miles Davis personally sought out another player of this instrument, who composed \"Watermelon Man,\" 
for his second quintet. The most recorded jazz standard “Round Midnight” was composed for this 
instrument, and its composer also wrote “Straight, No Chaser.” For 10 points, name this instrument played 
by Art Tatum, Herbie Hancock, and Theolonium Monk, who improvised with crazy chords over 88 keys. 
ANSWER:  
piano 
121-13-93-05131 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. In a story by this man set in Padua, a student inadvertently kills the woman he loves after giving her an 
antidote to the poisons she's been raised on. “Rappaccini's Daughter” appeared in the same collection as a 
story whose title character learns everyone including his wife Faith is secretly a witch. In a novel by this 
man, a minister dramatically reveals his seared chest on Election Day after being pursued by Roger 
Chillingworth. The minister is the lover of that novel's protagonist, Hester Prynne. For 10 points, name this 
author of  
The Scarlet Letter. 
ANSWER: Nathaniel  
Hawthorne 
121-13-93-05132 
2. Cryospheric degradation contributes to this process, which causes inundation of atolls and eliminates 
habitats for anadromous animals. Tectonic movement and wind contribute to this process locally but the 
global mean for this process is also increasing. Erosion, storm surges, destruction of barrier islands, and salt 
intrusion are caused by this process which is influenced by El Nino and La Nina. Thermal expansion and 
glacial melt are the two primary causes of this phenomenon. For 10 points, name this elevation of the 
oceans caused by global warming. 
ANSWER:  
sea level rise 
 [or  
SLR 
; accept logical equivalents] 
124-13-93-05133 
3. When analyzing the function of this organ, one typically sees a QRS complex. This organ contains 
Purkinje fibers. Blood returns to this organ through the vena cava, and the SA node generates its 
contractions. This organ is surrounded by the pericardium membrane, and it contains four chambers. For 10 
points, identify this human organ responsible for pumping blood. 
ANSWER:  
heart 
234-13-93-05134 
4. This city was where police officer James Zadroga died, resulting in legislation meant to protect workers 
suffering from respiratory diseases. Over six hundred employees of Cantor Fitzgerald died here. The 
Richard Drew photograph  
The Falling Man 
 shows a man jumping out of a building in this city to 
presumably escape a fire. It was the location of a building with the “Windows on the World” restaurant. 
For 10 points, name this city where the World Trade Center was destroyed on September 11, 2001. 
ANSWER:  
New York 
 City 
052-13-93-05135 
5. In a Daniell cell, this name is given to the piece of copper that is connected to a piece of zinc. In a 
galvanic cell, electrical current flows away from this location, which attracts electrons. This part of a 
galvanic cell is where the reduction reaction occurs, which is why it is considered positive in that case. For 
10 points, give this name for a type of electrode that is used in batteries and is contrasted with the anode. 
ANSWER:  
cathode 
s 
023-13-93-05136 
What leader of the Jacobins published the newspaper  
Defense of the Constitution 
 and led the Committee of 
Public Safety before being overthrown in the Thermidorian Reaction? 
ANSWER: Maximilien de  
Robespierre 
This is a calculation question. The area of a circle is 13.25 square units. If the radius of the circle is 
doubled, what is the area of the new circle? 
ANSWER:   square units 
53 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL 2013 Regular Season 2     5     Page  9 of 9 
