VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 7 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This author depicted the aftermath of the Appin Murder in his novel  
Catriona, 
 a sequel to his novel in 
which Alan Breck flees from the government with David Balfour. The prosecutor Gabriel John Utterson 
seeks out a man who assaulted a young girl in another of his novels. This author of  
Kidnapped 
 created Jim 
Hawkins and Long John Silver. For 10 points, name this Scottish novelist of  
Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and 
Mr. Hyde 
 and  
Treasure Island. 
ANSWER: Robert Louis  
Stevenson 
014-13-96-07101 
2. For a subset E of the real numbers, if this number, as well as this number plus x for all x in E, are in E, 
then E is called an inductive set. Two numbers are relatively prime if their greatest common divisor is this 
number. The sum of the probabilities of an event A and its complement is equal to this number. Evaluating 
the sine of pi over two radians yields this number, and the unit circle has a radius of this length. For 10 
points, the multiplicative inverse is equal to what smallest positive integer? 
ANSWER:  
one 
149-13-96-07102 
3. Two opposing forces during this war were defeated in separate battles by the Ottoman Empire, at the 
River Bender and the River Pruth. An empire in this war was initially allied to Frederick the Strong of 
Saxony and had to rebuild its army after a defeat at Narva. The losing empire in this war had to agree to the 
Treaty of Nystad after its army was smashed at the Battle of Poltava. For 10 points, name this war in which 
Peter the Great of Russia and his allies defeated Charles XII of Sweden. 
ANSWER:  
Great Northern 
 War 
153-13-96-07103 
4. This poet asserted, \"If the doors of perception were cleansed, every thing would appear to man as it is, 
infinite.\" This author's long poems include  
Visions of the Daughters of Albion 
 and  
Jerusalem, 
 both 
examples of his illuminated \"prophecies.\" He included lyrics such as \"The Poison Tree\" and \"The Sick 
Rose\" in his  
Songs of Innocence and of Experience, 
 one of which describes a creature \"burning bright.\" For 
10 points, name this English poet of \"The Chimney Sweeper,\" \"The Lamb,\" and \"The Tyger.\" 
ANSWER: William  
Blake 
014-13-96-07104 
5. San Blas was the name of a region in this country that is now called Guna Yala, home of the Guna 
people who produce blouses called \"molas.\" A province in this country is the namesake of the Darien Gap. 
In 1999, this country received full control of a formerly extraterritorial area through the Torrijos-Carter 
Treaty. That area in this country includes Gatun Lake, where one of three locks is located on a waterway 
between the Caribbean and Pacific. For 10 points, name this Central American country found on an 
isthmus, where a namesake canal connects the Pacific to the Atlantic. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Panama 
 [or Republica de  
Panama 
] 
023-13-96-07105 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  1 of 10 
6. A film attacking this practice depicted a man igniting a fireball by holding a match up to his kitchen 
faucet. Debate over this practice often focuses on the future of the Marcellus region. Matt Damon starred in 
a 2012 Gus Van Sant film about the controversy over this practice,  
Promised Land. 
 In this technique, 
gallons of high-pressure fluid are injected underground to crack the rock around a gas well. For 10 points, 
name this controversial method of extracting natural gas. 
ANSWER: induced hydraulic  
fracturing 
 [or  
fracking 
] 
080-13-96-07106 
7. This question was first proposed in Joseph Hart's text  
The Romance of Yachting. 
 J. Thomas Looney 
proposed the \"Oxfordian theory,\" which claimed that this question's answer was Edward de Vere, while 
others believe the answer is \"multiple people.\" Several scholars have proposed that the answer to it is 
\"Francis Bacon\" or \"Christopher Marlowe\" because the familiar answer lacked the appropriate education. 
For 10 points, give this literary question which ponders who was really responsible for such dramas as  
Romeo and Juliet 
. 
ANSWER: \"Who wrote  
Shakespeare's plays 
?\" [or obvious equivalents; or  
Shakespeare authorship 
controversy] 
052-13-96-07107 
8. This man was going to be succeeded by Abe Fortas in 1968 until Congress threatened a filibuster. In his 
highest post, this man replaced Fred Vinson, and he was previously Governor of California when he was 
Thomas Dewey's 1948 running mate. His appointment to the Supreme Court was legendarily labeled \"the 
biggest fool mistake I ever made\" by Dwight Eisenhower, who found him too liberal. For 10 points, name 
this Chief Justice of the Supreme Court during the Court's decisions in  
Miranda v. Arizona 
 and  
Brown v. 
Board of Education. 
ANSWER: Earl  
Warren 
052-13-96-07108 
9. In an essay, this author wrote that a woman must have money and the title place if she is to write fiction. 
A novel by this author depicts the suicide of Septimus Smith and the party preparations of Clarissa, the title 
character. This author of  
A Room of One’s Own 
 included the chapters \"The Window\" and \"Time Passes\" in 
her experimental novel about the Ramsay family, who take a boat to the title structure. For 10 points, name 
this author of  
Mrs. Dalloway 
 and  
To the Lighthouse. 
ANSWER: Virginia  
Woolf 
014-13-96-07109 
10. The Gate of Ghosts, Gate of the Spirits, and Gate of Man are channels of this river. According to 
legend, the emperor Yu the Great tamed the flooding of this river. This river's source is located in the 
Bayan Har Mountains, out of which this river flows to create the Ordos Loop. This river flows into the 
Bohai Sea after traveling through the Loess (LESS) Plateau; sediment from that plateau led to the name of 
this river. For 10 points, identify this river that is the second longest in China after the Yangtze, and is 
named for its color. 
ANSWER:  
Yellow 
 River [or  
Huang 
 He] 
023-13-96-07110 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  2 of 10 
11. Kinetic energy is equal to this quantity squared over twice the mass. For a photon, this quantity is equal 
to Planck's constant divided by the wavelength. Although it is not velocity, the Heisenberg uncertainty 
principle states that both position and this quantity cannot be known for a particle to arbitrarily high 
precision. Its change with respect to time is force, and the change in it is impulse. This quantity is measured 
in kilogram-meters per second and is conserved in all collisions. For 10 points, identify this quantity 
calculated as the product of mass and velocity. 
ANSWER: linear  
momentum 
 [do not accept \"angular momentum\"] 
226-13-96-07111 
12. This singer was criticized online for dating James Lowe, and Veronica Bayetti Flores wrote an October 
2013 article claiming that a song by this artist is racist. A song by this artist includes the lyrics \"I'm kind of 
over getting told to put my hands up in the air\" and starts the chorus with \"we live in cities you'll never see 
on screen.\" This singer of \"Team\" also has a song that begins \"I've never seen a diamond in the flesh\" and 
asks \"let me be your ruler\" and \"let me live that fantasy.\" For 10 points, name this New Zealand singer 
whose album  
Pure Heroine 
 included the song \"Royals.\" 
ANSWER:  
Lorde 
 [or Ella  
Yelich-O'Connor 
] 
023-13-96-07112 
13. In one of these areas, Chiron and Pholus lead a centaur patrol that fires arrows at a river, and the 
Harpies watch over a forest of tree-people. The principle of  
contrapasso 
 governs these areas, whose 
residents are assigned by a long-tailed Minos. The last of these areas is a frozen waste where a three-headed 
monster chews on Brutus, Cassius, and Judas. Residents of these areas endure poetic punishments that vary 
according to their specific sins. For 10 points, identify these nine concentric zones into which Dante 
divided his  
Inferno. 
ANSWER: the nine  
circles 
 of  
Hell 
 [or equivalents; prompt on  
Hell 
] 
080-13-96-07113 
14. On New Year's Day 2014, this country's ex-spy chief Patrick Karegeya (cah-ruh-GAY-uh) was found 
dead in a Sandton hotel. Along with Uganda, this home of controversial \"gacaca\" (gah-CAH-cah) courts 
supplies recruits to a different country's M23 forces. In 2012, the United States cut off aid to this country 
for training rebels in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This country's president, Paul Kagame 
(kah-GAH-may), came to power after leading the RPF to victory against its Hutu people. For 10 points, 
name this African country where the Hutus targeted the Tutsi people in a 1994 genocide. 
ANSWER:  
Rwanda 
080-13-96-07114 
15. This character was the sister of Euryale (yur-ee-AH-lay) and Stheno (suh-THEE-noh), who were 
likewise daughters of Phorcys (FORK-iss) and Ceto (SEE-toh). She was punished by Athena after an 
encounter in a temple with Poseidon, and she was later targeted on a man who used winged sandals and a 
helm of invisibility on a mission from Polydectes (PAH-lee-DEK-teez). Pegasus came out of her neck after 
Perseus beheaded her. For 10 points, name this snake-haired Gorgon whose gaze turned men to stone. 
ANSWER:  
Medusa 
019-13-96-07115 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 7 
Directed Round 
1A.  What Greek king, the father of Alexander the Great, was assassinated in 336 BCE by Pausanias 
(pow-SAY-nee-us) of Orestis? 
ANSWER:  
Philip II 
 of Macedon [prompt on  
Philip 
] 
1B.  The friction force for an object is proportional to what force that is perpendicular to the surface? 
ANSWER:  
normal 
 force 
2A.  What Confederate general who commanded a corps under Lee was known as \"Old Pete\" and \"Lee's 
War Horse?\" 
ANSWER: James  
Longstreet 
2B.  What novel-in-verse by Alexander Pushkin describes an aristocrat who kills his friend Lensky in a 
duel? 
ANSWER:  
Eugene Onegin 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. In triangle ABC, AB is length 5 and BC is length 7. The 
altitude drawn from angle A also bisects BC. What is the length of side AC? 
ANSWER:  
5 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Consider the equation y equals tangent of x minus quantity pi 
over 4. At what angle between 0 and pi radians would the graph of this equation have a vertical asymptote? 
ANSWER:  
3 pi over 4 
 radians [or  
3/4 pi 
 radians; or  
0.75 pi radians 
; or  
135 degrees 
] 
4A.  What organelle uses acid hydrolases to digest compounds? 
ANSWER:  
lysosome 
4B.  What British economist wrote  
On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, 
 in which he 
defined rent and laid out his theory of comparative advantage? 
ANSWER: David  
Ricardo 
5A.  What name is given to the final group of the periodic table, which includes krypton and xenon? 
ANSWER:  
noble gas 
es [or group  ] 
18 
5B.  What NBA team is currently coached by Randy Wittman and is led by John Wall and Bradley Beal? 
ANSWER: Washington  
Wizards 
 [or  
Washington 
 Wizards] 
6A.  What group of American painters included Thomas Cole and Frederick Church and was known for 
their landscape paintings? 
ANSWER:  
Hudson River School 
6B.  What astronomer names a constant describing the rate of expansion of the universe? 
ANSWER: Edwin  
Hubble 
7A.  What mathematician names a set of fluid dynamics equations describing inviscid flow? 
ANSWER: Leonhard  
Euler 
7B.  What gender of German nouns takes the definite article \"der\" in the nominative? 
ANSWER:  
masculine 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  4 of 10 
8A.  J. S. Bach wrote a famous B minor example of what genre of religious composition featuring such 
sections as the “Kyrie” and “Agnus Dei”? 
ANSWER:  
mass 
8B.  What sorceress who lived on the island of Aeaea (EYE-ee-uh) turned Odysseus’s men into pigs? 
ANSWER:  
Circe 
9A.  What American author wrote \"The Murders in the Rue Morgue\" and \"The Oblong Box?\" 
ANSWER: Edgar Allan  
Poe 
9B.  Shale and sandstone are classic examples of what type of rocks? 
ANSWER:  
sedimentary 
 rocks 
10A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. To win a board game, you have to roll a 20-sided die, with 
faces numbered 1 through 20, and get a 1. What is the probability that you roll a 1 and your opponent does 
not roll a 1, if the events are considered independent? 
ANSWER:  
19/400 
 [or  
0.0475 
; or  
4.75% 
] 
10B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the inverse of the function “y equals one-half times 
the natural log of x”? 
ANSWER: y =  
e^(2x) 
 [or y equals  
e to the 2x 
; or y equals   raised to the power of   times  ] 
e 2 x 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 7 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Objects that undergo this process under similar conditions are grouped into \"facies\" (FAH-sheez). 
George Barrow defined the chlorite and sillimanite zones at opposite ends of a grading system for this 
process. Black smokers trigger the hydrothermal variety of this process on the ocean floor. Contact and 
regional are more common types of this process, which results in gneiss (NICE), schist (SHIST), and slate, 
when shale, clays, and muds are subject to high temperature and pressure. For 10 points, name this process 
that transforms limestone, a sedimentary rock, into marble. 
ANSWER:  
metamorphism 
 [or word forms] 
020-13-96-07117 
2. The song \"Non, je ne regrette rien\" is featured prominently in this film. Its protagonist is chased through 
the streets of Mombasa by agents of Cobol Engineering. That same character in this movie tasks Ariadne, 
played by Ellen Page, with drawing a maze in two minutes that takes one minute to solve. Throughout this 
movie, Cobb, played by Leonardo DiCaprio, is stalked by the projection of his dead wife Mal. For 10 
points, name this 2010 Christopher Nolan movie about dreams. 
ANSWER:  
Inception 
225-13-96-07118 
3. This man led armed warriors to confront an opposing general at the general's Indiana home of 
Grouseland. He declined a commission from Henry Procter honoring him for his efforts in the siege of 
Detroit. Future Vice-President Richard Johnson claimed to have killed this man at the Battle of the Thames 
during the War of 1812. His brother was Tenskwatawa (TENS-kwuh-TAH-wah), otherwise known as the 
Prophet. For 10 points, name this Shawnee leader who was defeated by William Henry Harrison at the 
Battle of Tippecanoe. 
ANSWER:  
Tecumseh 
052-13-96-07119 
4. Elongation factors such as EF-Tu transport molecules to this location. GTP is hydrolyzed when 
molecules move through this structure's A, P, and E sites. In eukaryotes, these structures are made up of 
subunits that are 40S and 60S in size. The RNA portion of these structures is synthesized in the nucleolus. 
Molecules including aminoacyl(uh-MEE-noh-EY-sil)-tRNA and mRNA are brought to this organelle to 
start translation. For 10 points, name these organelles, the site of protein synthesis. 
ANSWER:  
ribosome 
s 
140-13-96-07120 
5. The second verse of one of this man's songs states that \"Mermaids are chanting the wild lorelei.\" In 
another of his songs a man admonishes a woman, \"...don't you cry for me/For I come from Alabama with a 
banjo on my knee.\" This man wrote many songs for the Christy's Minstrels, including one traditionally 
sung before an annual event at Churchill Downs. Another of his songs includes the refrain, \"Doo dah, doo 
dah.\" For 10 points, name this American songwriter of \"My Old Kentucky Home,\" \"Camptown Races,\" and 
\"Oh! Susanna.\" 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Foster 
030-13-96-07121 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  6 of 10 
6. Larvae in this phylum are called planula. Along with some types of worms, some organisms in this 
phylum can undergo strobilation, an alternative to budding. Ctenophores (TEE-nuh-fours) are former 
members of this phylum. Members of this phylum have specialized cells that release a barb, containing 
toxins, to trap prey; those cells are nematocysts. Organisms in it have medusa and polyp life cycle stages 
and have radial symmetry. For 10 points, name this animal phylum whose members include sea anemones 
and jellyfish. 
ANSWER:  
Cnidaria 
 [or  
cnidarians 
] 
140-13-96-07122 
7. This author writes in a poem that a woodchuck could tell whether his sleep will be the \"long sleep\" or 
\"just some human sleep.\" This author of \"After Apple-Picking\" cites what he has \"tasted of desire\" and 
what he knows \"of hate\" in another poem, which contrasts two opposite ends for the world. This author 
concludes, \"And that has made all the difference\" in a poem that begins, \"Two roads diverged in a yellow 
wood.\" For 10 points, name this New England poet of \"Fire and Ice\" and \"The Road Not Taken.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Frost 
080-13-96-07123 
8. This man confessed to using a fence post to kill Margret Whitehead. Much information about his 
background comes from a text published by Thomas Ruffin Gray. After seeing a solar eclipse, this man 
began to contact such comrades as Henry, Hark, Nelson, and Sam. This man's \"confessions\" were 
published by a white lawyer. His forces killed over fifty whites in Southampton County, while not 
distinguishing women and children. For 10 points, name this slave who led an 1831 rebellion in Virginia. 
ANSWER: Nat  
Turner 
052-13-96-07124 
9. One of these characters kills his rival Trampas in Owen Wister's  
The Virginian, 
 and another of these 
characters is arrested by evil Mormons led by Elder Tull in a Zane Grey novel. Cormac McCarthy wrote a 
trilogy about one of them named John Grady Cole, who appears in  
All the Pretty Horses. 
 Annie Proulx 
described a homosexual relationship between two of them, Jack Twist and Ennis Del Mar, in the story 
\"Brokeback Mountain.\" For 10 points, name these characters who bear ten-gallon hats and lassos in 
Western novels. 
ANSWER:  
cowboy 
s 
080-13-96-07125 
10. After reading Svante (suh-VON-tay) Arrhenius's work on the greenhouse effect, this inventor of an 
electric piano proposed setting coal mines on fire to increase global temperatures. Though not Jewish, the 
Nazis forced him into retirement because his three daughters all had Jewish husbands. His observations on 
approaching absolute zero became the third law of thermodynamics. For 10 points, identify this scientist 
whose namesake equation is used to calculate the reduction potential of an electrochemical half-cell. 
ANSWER: Walter  
Nernst 
019-13-96-07126 
11. After the Sharpeville Massacre, this man became the commander of the newly formed Spear of the 
Nation. During the Rivonia Trial, he gave the \"I am Prepared to Die\" speech. This leader established the 
Truth and Reconciliation Commission after sharing the Nobel Peace Prize with F.W. de Klerk. He spent 
eighteen years imprisoned on Robben Island before winning a 1994 election that was the first to allow 
black voters. For 10 points, name this president of South Africa who helped to end apartheid. 
ANSWER: Nelson Rolihlahla  
Mandela 
023-13-96-07127 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  7 of 10 
12. The Grotthuss-Draper (GROW-tiss DRAY-per) law states that a reaction can only occur when a target 
molecule is affected by this phenomenon. On a Feynman (FINE-man) diagram, this phenomenon is 
represented by a wavy line in the center. Albert Einstein was awarded his Nobel when he demonstrated that 
this phenomenon was quantized. When 7-dehydrocholesterol in the skin is exposed to this phenomenon, 
vitamin D is synthesized. Two organs in the human body detect this phenomenon using rod and cone cells. 
For 10 points, identify this phenomenon which stimulates phototropism in plants. 
ANSWER: visible  
light 
 [or  
photon 
s; or  
UV 
 radiation; prompt on \"electromagnetic radiation\"] 
239-13-96-07128 
13. Escaped slaves living in this area inspired Harriet Beecher Stowe's novel  
Dred. 
 This area contains the 
larger of only two natural lakes in its state, Lake Drummond. George Washington surveyed it and 
suggested building a canal connecting the Albemarle Sound with the Chesapeake Bay. This marsh's current 
borders touch Camden County in the south and the cities of Chesapeake and Suffolk in the north. For 10 
points, name this swamp in southeast Virginia and northeast North Carolina. 
ANSWER:  
Great Dismal 
 Swamp 
121-13-96-07129 
14. The double dabble algorithm converts values from this system into another system. In this system, 
signed numbers can be represented using two's complement notation. Every grouping of four digits in this 
system corresponds to one digit in hexadecimal, which uses symbols from 0 to F. This system can represent 
two to the n distinct numbers, where n is the number of bits used. For 10 points, name this number system 
used by computers that only has zeroes and ones. 
ANSWER:  
binary 
 number system [or  
base-two 
 number system] 
132-13-96-07130 
15. This artist's \"nuclear mysticism\" period includes his version of the Crucifixion, which depicts Jesus on 
a hypercube crucifix. This artist included twenty-eight depictions of the Venus de Milo in  
Hallucinogenic 
Toreador. 
 This man collaborated with Luis Bunuel on the film  
An Andalusian Dog. 
 In a painting by this 
man, ants cover the face of one of several melting clocks. For 10 points, name this Spanish surrealist artist 
of  
The Persistence of Memory. 
ANSWER: Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto  
Dali 
 i Domenech, 1st Marques de Dali de Pubol 
186-13-96-07131 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 7 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. In this novel, a recreation of a successful experiment is attempted in the Orkneys. In a scene from this 
novel, the maid Justine Moritz is executed for murdering the protagonist's brother William. This novel's 
frame story includes letters written to Margaret Saville by the arctic explorer Robert Walton. While 
studying at the University of Ingolstadt, the main character of this novel discovers how to reanimate dead 
tissue. For 10 points, name this Mary Shelley novel about the scientist Victor and his monstrous creation. 
ANSWER:  
Frankenstein ; or, the Modern Prometheus 
186-13-96-07132 
2. An alternative to mercury thermometers are red thermometers, which most often contain this molecule 
with red dye. A solution consisting 96% of this compound and 4% water is an azeotrope. Glucose is 
industrially fermented to form two carbon dioxides and two of these molecules. The liver uses ADH to 
convert this molecule into acetaldehyde, and it is used as an additive to gasoline. For 10 points, identify this 
two carbon molecule found in alcoholic beverages. 
ANSWER:  
ethanol 
 [or  
ethyl alcohol 
; or  
drinking alcohol 
; or  
grain alcohol 
; prompt on  
alcohol 
] 
239-13-96-07133 
3. In a play by this author, Eben Cabot fathers a child with his father's wife Abbie Putnam. In one of this 
man's plays, the former Pullman porter Brutus becomes the ruler of an island. This author of  
Desire Under 
the Elms 
 and  
The Emperor Jones 
 wrote a play in which \"Hickey\" convinces the denizens of Harry Hope's 
saloon to give up their \"pipe dreams.\" For 10 points, name this American playwright of  
The Iceman 
Cometh 
 who created the Tyrone family in  
Long Day's Journey Into Night. 
ANSWER: Eugene  
O'Neill 
186-13-96-07134 
4. During these cells's development, they go from double-negative to double-positive to single-positive. 
These cells are further classified based on what MHC complex they recognize, as they contain one or both 
of the CD4 or CD8 markers. Along with macrophages, HIV infects a type of these cells. Like NK cells and 
B cells, these cells are classified as lymphocytes, and have types like cytotoxic and helper. For 10 points, 
name this type of white blood cell that matures in the thymus. 
ANSWER: helper   cells [prompt on  
T lymphocyte 
 until it is read; prompt on  
white blood cell 
 until it is 
read] 
140-13-96-07135 
5. In this country, workers building the Stalinallee Boulevard rioted against the government in 1953. This 
country attempted to create a more efficient economy through Wolfgang Berger's New Economic System. 
Kurt Wismach shouted for free elections to be held in this country while Walter Ulbricht gave a speech. 
This country enacted a plan of \"consumer socialism\" while led by Erich Honecker. This country employed 
the Stasi police force and was where the Berlin Wall was built. For 10 points, name this former country that 
was reunited with its western counterpart in 1990. 
ANSWER:  
East Germany 
 [or  
GDR 
; or  
German Democratic Republic 
; or  
Deutsche Demokratische 
Republik 
; do not accept or prompt on \"Germany\"] 
186-13-96-07136 
This is a calculation question. On Monday, there’s a 10% chance of rain, which increases to 20% on 
Tuesday and 30% on Wednesday. What’s the probability it rains all three days? 
ANSWER:  
3/500 
 [or  
6/1000 
; or  
0.006 
; or  
0.6% 
] 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  9 of 10 
Nanak and Gobind Singh are the first and tenth of what series of spiritual teachers venerated in Sikhism? 
ANSWER:  
Guru 
s 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2014     7     Page  10 of 10 
