NASAT 2012 
Round 12 
Tossups 
1. Among this deity's children are a goddess who provides good eyesight and a goddess who weaves 
colorful clouds. This figure passed a series of 3200 trials, each taking 3 million years, in order to defeat a 
demon. This divine figure created the Milky Way to separate his daughter from a cowherd, but allowed 
them to meet annually on a bridge of magpies. He owns an orchard whose peaches grant immortality. This 
figure was originally a subordinate to one of the Three Pure Ones, and he once gave Monkey the job of 
stable boy. For 10 points name this ruler of heaven from Chinese mythology, named for a type of green 
stone. 
ANSWER:  
Jade Emperor 
 [or  
Yu-huang 
; or  
Yu Di 
] 
048-12-59-12102 
2. Ling slightly simplified one form of this circuit by factoring out a propagate term from the group 
generate signal despite it not being a common factor. That form of this circuit helps eliminate the gate delay 
of the ripple-carry type of this circuit. A basic implementation of it feeds the two main bits into an XOR 
gate and an AND gate, sends the output of that XOR gate, along with a C-sub-in bit, to another XOR 
gate/AND gate pair and ORs the output of the AND gates together. A naive implementation of this circuit 
eliminates all but the first XOR and AND gate from the aforementioned design; that is the \"half\" type, 
which does not support a carry-in bit. For 10 points, identify these basic blocks used in arithmetic logic 
units which sum binary inputs. 
ANSWER:  
adder 
 [accept  
summer 
 before \"sum\" is read] 
066-12-59-12103 
3. One bridge built in this city was the first to use tubular cord members and caused the first American 
outbreak of “the bends.” That bridge was designed and named for Civil War shipbuilder James Eads. 
Minoru Yamasaki designed a housing complex for this city whose 1972 demolition became a symbol of the 
failures of modern architecture and public housing. This home of the Pruitt-Igoe project is the site of a 
ten-story red brick office building designed by Dankmar Adler and Louis Sullivan. Another structure in this 
city is the centerpiece of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial and was based on an inverted catenary 
arch. For 10 points, name this Midwestern home of the Wainwright Building and the Gateway Arch. 
ANSWER:  
St. Louis 
, Missouri 
015-12-59-12104 
4. One of his poems concludes by asking, “and in heaven, if I cry to you then, will you hear or know?” 
This poet wrote, “Thou hast conquered, O pale Galilean, the world has grown grey from thy breath” in a 
poem beginning, “I have lived long enough, having seen one thing, that love hath an end,” and responding 
to “the Proclamation in Rome of the Christian Faith.” This poet of “The Triumph of Time” elegized 
Charles Baudelaire in “Ave Atque Vale.” For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of  
Atalanta in Calydon 
who included “Hymn to Proserpine” in his seminal collection  
Poems and Ballads. 
ANSWER: Algernon Charles  
Swinburne 
014-12-59-12105 
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  1 of 12 
5. This city's council was abolished and replaced by the \"elders of the twelve tribes of Israel.\" One leader of 
this city passed a law that legalized polygamy and forbade women from refusing marriage proposals. A 
student of Melchior Hoffmann, Bernhard Rothmann, reformed this city. Its residents resorted to eating 
frogs, rats, and shoe leather during its siege by Bishop Franz von Waldeck. One of this city's leaders, Jan 
Mathys, declared it the \"New Jerusalem\" during its disastrous Anabaptist rebellion, when it was led by the 
\"King of Zion,\" John of Leiden. For 10 points, name this German city where the Treaty of Westphalia was 
signed. 
ANSWER:  
Münster 
080-12-59-12106 
6. This thinker wrote that “classic conservatism” requires an aristocracy, a peasantry, and a 
peasant-bourgeoisie, all things America has never had, in an analysis of the “conservative mood.” He 
argued that the classic checks and balance system is outdated because interests cooperate instead of 
competing. One of this man’s texts critiques Talcott Parsons’s structural functionalist approach, arguing 
that his discipline must work between “the personal troubles of milieu” and the “public issues of social 
structure.” Another of his books describes the shared worldview of the leaders of state, military, and 
industry in postwar American society. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Sociological Imagination 
 and  
The Power Elite 
. 
ANSWER: Charles Wright  
Mills 
052-12-59-12107 
7. This thinker defended the enslavement of Africans on the grounds that they were the defeated aggressors 
in a just war. Robert Nozick came up with the example of a man who mixes tomato juice with the ocean to 
mock this thinker’s claim that a man gains ownership over something by mixing his labor with it. He wrote 
many of his later works in the household of the Earl of Shaftesbury, including one that refutes the idea of a 
divine right of kings put forth by Robert Filmer. This man wrote the  
Fundamental Constitution of the 
Carolinas 
 and advocated toleration of Protestant sects in  
An Essay Concerning Toleration. 
 For 10 points, 
name this English political philosopher who espoused liberal viewpoints in  
Two Treatises of Government 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Locke 
080-12-59-12108 
8. This letter names a function in quantum field theory that relates the coupling parameter to the energy 
scale. One quantity denoted by this letter is equal to one over Boltzmann’s constant times temperature; that 
quantity appears in the exponential of Boltzmann factors. This letter is also used to symbolize the ratio of 
an object’s speed to the speed of light. In one process named for this letter, a down quark changes to an up 
quark, releasing an electron and an electron antineutrino. That process, which is mediated by the weak 
force, keeps a nucleus’ mass number constant but changes the number of protons. For 10 points, identify 
this Greek letter which names a form of decay in which a positron or electron is emitted. 
ANSWER:  
beta 
132-12-59-12109 
9. One character in this play has had seven children who all died within a day of their birth, leading her to 
task her only living child, Ruth, to investigate the cause of her misfortunes. Another character in this play is 
pregnant and thus is able to obtain a stay of execution until she has given birth. In this play, one character 
who wants his land to pass to his own sons chooses to die under the weight of many stones rather than 
confess to a crime. At its opening, Mr. Parris believes that the reason that his daughter Betty is in a 
catatonic state has something to do with her cavorting in the forest with Tituba. For 10 points, name this 
play in which the accusations of Abigail Williams lead to the death of John Proctor, a work of Arthur 
Miller. 
ANSWER:  
The  Crucible 
040-12-59-12110 
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  2 of 12 
10. One of these works defends Barry Goldwater's claim that \"extremism in the defense of liberty is no 
vice\" by citing the Congo Crisis and Hamlet's \"to be or not to be\" soliloquy. Another of these works 
analyzes the Russian, Chinese, American, and French revolutions, concluding that revolutions are \"the 
landless against the landlords\" and brought about by bloodshed. That one is titled \"Message to the 
Grassroots.\" The most famous of these works, delivered in two different forms in Cleveland and Detroit, 
calls Lyndon Johnson a \"Southern cracker\" and warns of another March on Washington from people who 
bought \"one-way tickets.\" For 10 points, name this set of orations, including \"The Ballot or the Bullet,\" 
which were all delivered by a Muslim rival to Martin Luther King. 
ANSWER:  
speeches 
 of  
Malcolm X 
 [or  
speeches 
 of  
Malcolm Little 
; or  
speeches 
 of El-hajj Malik  
El-Shabazz 
] 
080-12-59-12111 
11. One religious community which, until the last decade, lived almost entirely in this country was 
mentioned in the Quran along with Jews and Christians as one of the \"People of the Book.\" Those 
\"Sabians,\" who lived here, revere John the Baptist but reject Jesus, and are now known as this country's 
minority \"Mandeans.\" Another small religion which exists mostly in this country worships Melek Taus, the 
peacock god, and is the Yazidis. In 2006, this country, home to the more western large population of 
Chaldean Christians, was plagued by death squads in the \"Sunni Triangle.\" For 10 points, name this 
country where the Shia majority was long suppressed under the rule of Saddam Hussein. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Iraq 
 [or Jumhuriyat al- 
Iraq 
] 
019-12-59-12112 
12. A type of ophiolite is named after a \"supra\" form of these regions. One part of these regions can 
undergo tearing known as STEP faults. They consist of an updip zone and a seismogenic zone. 
Accretionary prisms are formed on one part of these regions. Nankai and Cascadia are two notable ones. 
Although not island arcs, one area associated with them can be affected by \"roll-back\" and is a back arc. 
Earthquakes can occur deep in them in areas called Benioff zones. The primary driving force behind these 
regions is slab pull. For 10 points, name these regions in which an oceanic plate is driven under a 
continental plate at a convergent margin. 
ANSWER:  
subduction zone 
s [prompt on  
convergent boundaries 
 or  
convergent margin 
s] 
066-12-59-12113 
13. In one scene in this film, the camera points straight up from the floor at the face of a character banging 
a metal door and shouting, “Go check it out!” Another of its scenes takes place in a bathroom with solid 
red walls and a white ceiling and floor, where that character’s jacket is wiped by a man who mentions how 
he “corrected” his daughters. This film repeatedly uses floor-level tracking shots to follow a boy on a 
blue-seated tricycle through a building in which he has a vision of a torrent of blood gushing from an 
elevator. For 10 points, name this Stanley Kubrick film in which Jack Torrance pursues his family with an 
axe and famously exclaims, “Here’s Johnny!” 
ANSWER:  
The  Shining 
014-12-59-12114 
14. One part of this novel describes an incident in which the narrator asks a man to move his stalled 
motorcycle, after which he is attacked by an onlooker. Another part describes a man named Du Guesclin 
whom the narrator had fought alongside with during the Spanish Civil War. In another section, the narrator 
describes how came to possess  
The Just Judges, 
 a panel from the Ghent altarpiece. The narrator recounts 
how he failed to save a woman who committed suicide on the Pont Royal Bridge, an act compared to the 
biting of the apple in the Garden of Eden. This novel is narrated from the Mexico City bar in Amsterdam 
by Jean-Baptiste Clamence. For 10 points, name this novel by Albert Camus. 
ANSWER:  
The  Fall 
 [or  
La  Chute 
] 
064-12-59-12115 
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  3 of 12 
15. Conspiracy theories for this event were investigated in Operation Paget, which eventually blamed 
\"gross negligence.\" It is effectively the subject of Stella Vine's painting  
Hi Paul can you come over I'm 
really frightened 
, whose title references a letter written to Paul Burrell warning of one man's desire to plan 
an accident so he could \"marry Tiggy.\" Much blame was placed on the Head of Security at the Ritz Hotel, 
Henri Paul, who had been drinking and was also killed during this event. Taking place in the Pont de 
l’Alma road tunnel in Paris, this event was initially blamed on overaggressive paparazzi and also killed 
Egyptian film producer Dodi Fayed. For 10 points, name this August 31, 1997 car accident that killed a 
Princess of Wales. 
ANSWER:  
death of Diana 
, Princess of Wales [or  
death of Diana Spencer 
; or  
death of 
 Dodi  
Fayed 
 until 
\"Dodi Fayed\" is mentioned; or  
death of 
 Henri  
Paul 
 until \"Henri Paul\" is mentioned; accept \"car accident\" 
in combination with any of the previous phrases] 
052-12-59-12116 
16. One of this city's museums is a former poorhouse called Vieille Charite. Louis XVI built over a fortress 
of the Knights Hospitallers to construct this city's Fort Saint-Jean. Marcel Pagnol founded his film studio in 
this city. This city's main thoroughfare, which takes its name from the hemp once transported along it, is La 
Canebiere. A 27-foot-tall copper statue of Mary tops the bell tower of this city's Notre Dame de la Garde. 
The Frioul Islands lie in this city's harbor, which contains the notorious Chateau d'If. A stew called  
bouillabaisse 
 comes from this port founded in 600 BCE by Phoenician traders. For 10 points, name this 
port city in the south of France. 
ANSWER:  
Marseille 
 [or  
Marseilles 
] 
080-12-59-12117 
17. One man in this novel gives a speech, rifle in hand, from the roof of his porch. That man, Sherburn, 
mocks a mob for being unable to kill him in daylight. This book’s title character is shown a magic hairball 
and fakes his own death by shooting a pig. Hemingway opined that this novel should end as the title 
character resolves, “All right then, I’ll go to hell,” before he goes to the Phelps estate to find a friend. This 
novel’s title character travels through the Grangerford-Shepherdson feud and puts up with awful 
Shakespeare from two conmen pretending to be noble, the Duke and the Dauphin. For 10 points, name this 
novel in which the slave Jim floats down the Mississippi with the title boy, written by Mark Twain. 
ANSWER:  
The Adventures of  Huckleberry Finn 
 [or  
Huck Finn 
] 
104-12-59-12118 
18. Like the Thracians, these people used a sickle-like weapon called the  
falx 
. These people were unified 
under King Burebista. After destroying the army of Cornelius Fuscus, these people fell to Tettius Iulianus 
at the Battle of Tapae. Apollodorus of Damascus constructed a nearly 4000-foot-long bridge to combat 
these people, whose enemies cut the water pipes to their fortress at Sarmizegethusa. The defeat of their 
king, Decebalus, is commemorated on the spiral frieze of a column in the Roman Forum. For 10 points, 
name these people who lived in modern-day Romania and fought several wars against Domitian and 
Trajan. 
ANSWER:  
Dacian 
s 
080-12-59-12119 
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  4 of 12 
19. Radiographic studies sometimes reveal that this substance is found in cavum velum interpositum in 
infants. The median and lateral apertures, respectively named for Magendie and Luschka, are pathways for 
it. The strongest positive result for a beta-2 transferrin assay occurs in this substance. Ependymal cells, 
which secrete this substance, beat their cilia to form a “barrier” to its access. This substance may be tested 
by a procedure that indicates Guillian-Barre syndrome if there are too many proteins. Its presence in 
ventricles and the space between the arachnoid and pia maters mediates intracranial pressure. For 10 points, 
name this liquid removed by lumbar puncture, found in and around the central nervous system. 
ANSWER:  
cerebrospinal fluid 
 [or  
CSF 
] 
020-12-59-12120 
20. This artist gained popularity during his namesake \"Affair,\" in which the Union of Berlin Artists shut 
down his exhibition after one week due to its supposed French influences. This artist painted a woman 
wearing an unbuttoned white dress that reveals a red slip in  
Ashes 
. He also depicted a skinny, developing 
nude woman sitting at the edge of her bed in  
Puberty 
. His most famous work was recently sold for 
$120,000,000 dollars, making it the most expensive work of art ever sold at an auction. That work depicts a 
swirling orange sky above a green-faced figure on a bridge. For 10 points, name this Norwegian artist of  
The Scream 
. 
ANSWER: Edvard  
Munch 
080-12-59-12121 
21. An action of this poem’s subject is compared to how “a skate’s heel sweeps smooth on a bow-bend.” 
The speaker of this poem recalls how “my heart in hiding stirred” for the title figure before ambiguously 
exclaiming, “the achieve of, the mastery of the thing!” This poem concludes by noting how “blue-bleak 
embers…fall, gall themselves, and gash gold-vermilion,” and it begins by stating, “I caught this morning 
morning’s minion,” a “dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon.” For 10 points, name this sonnet dedicated “To Christ 
our Lord” by Gerard Manley Hopkins. 
ANSWER: “The  
Windhover 
” 
014-12-59-12122 
22. Two of these structures can interact with each other if a heptad repeat is present. These structures show 
minima at 208 and 222 nanometers in CD spectroscopy, and the relative locations of their monomers are 
displayed on Wenxiang diagrams. Due to their dipole moment they are often capped by a negative charge. 
They occupy a stripe in the third quadrant of the Ramachandran plot. Seven of these structures that 
spanning a membrane are found in G protein coupled receptors. Glycine is rarely found in them because of 
the entropic cost. This type of structure is stabilized from hydrogen bonding between amino acids in 
position   and  
i i+4 
. For 10 points, name this common type of motif that is part of a protein's secondary 
structure, often contrasted with the beta sheet. 
ANSWER:  
alpha helix 
 [prompt on  
helix 
] 
064-12-59-12123 
23. This colony's Plundering Time saw looting by Richard Ingle and led to the Battle of Severn. This 
colony fought a boundary war with its northern neighbor known as Cresap's War. William Stone served as 
this state's governor when it passed an act protecting all Trinitarian practitioners of a certain religion. That 
aforementioned act was revoked by this colony's governor William Claiborne and was known as this 
colony's \"Toleration Act,\" or the \"Act Concerning Religion.\" In addition to having its northern boundary 
set by the Mason-Dixon Line, this colony was established as a safe-haven for Catholics. For 10 points, 
name this colony that was founded by Cecil Calvert. 
ANSWER:  
Maryland 
149-12-59-12124 
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2012 
Round 12 
Bonuses 
1. This goddess wields a spear and shield in her incarnation as \"Sospita.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Roman equivalent of Hera, the wife of Jupiter and queen of the gods. 
ANSWER:  
Juno 
[10] The Roman mint was located in the temple of this aspect of Juno. This epithet derives from the Greek 
for \"unique\" or the Latin for \"to warn.\" 
ANSWER: Juno  
Moneta 
[10] Juno's role in the Capitoline Triad is derived from this people's myth system. They practiced haruspicy 
and believed in the prophets Tages and Vegoia. 
ANSWER: the  
Etruscans 
080-12-59-12201  
2. This theory is used to explain why none of the magnetic monopoles predicted by GUTs exist. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this model of the early universe in which a viewer’s commoving frame shrinks. Proposed by 
Alan Guth, the slow roll form of this theory occurs when its namesake field is larger than the Planck 
energy. 
ANSWER: cosmological  
inflation 
[10] Cosmic inflation is a modification of this traditional theory of the beginning of the universe. It states 
that the universe expanded from a singularity over 13 billion years ago. 
ANSWER:  
big bang 
[10] Fluctuations in this value for de Sitter space in cosmic inflation results in a Hawking temperature equal 
to the Hubble constant over two pi times the Boltzmann constant. Fluctuations in this quantity lead to 
density perturbations, which create galaxies. 
ANSWER:  
energy 
149-12-59-12202  
3. The losers of this battle agreed to the Treaty of Schoenbrunn. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1809 battle that effectively ended the War of the Fifth Coalition. Napoleon defeated the 
Archduke Charles here and received a large portion of the Austrian Empire as a result. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Wagram 
[10] At Wagram, Napoleon gave Jean Bernadotte the boot after he retreated from the Austrian army. 
Bernadotte later became Charles XIV John of this Scandinavian country and is still the namesake of its 
royal house, currently under the rule of Carl XVI Gustaf. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Sweden 
 [or Konungariket  
Sverige 
] 
[10] Bernadotte fought against his former commander at this 1813 \"Battle of the Nations.\" The Sixth 
Coalition's victory at this battle allowed them to invade France and send Napoleon off to Elba the next year. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Leipzig 
080-12-59-12203  
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  6 of 12 
4. Answer the following about controversial photographs, for 10 points each: 
[10] Photographer Annie Leibovitz drew fire in 2008 for a topless photoshoot of this then fifteen-year-old 
actress. 
ANSWER: Miley  
Cyrus 
[10] Andres Serrano took this photograph of a crucifix submerged in fluid as part of a series that also 
involved statuettes photographed in blood and milk. 
ANSWER:  
Piss Christ 
[10] This photographer drew questions regarding the definition of obscenity over his explicit, homoerotic 
exhibition at the Washington Project for the Arts. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Mapplethorpe 
105-12-59-12204  
5. In the \"hindsight\" example of these phenomena, subjects believe they \"knew all along\" what would be 
the outcome of a potentially unpredictable event. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these phenomena, in which a subject's distorted perception leads to an error in judgment. Other 
examples of these phenomena include the fundamental attribution error. 
ANSWER: cognitive  
bias 
es 
[10] In this type of cognitive bias, a subject lends more credence to the data that support his preconceived 
ideas than to data that refute them. It allows conspiracy theorists to \"prove\" outlandish ideas. 
ANSWER:  
confirmation 
 bias 
[10] This man investigated how the \"availability heuristic\" results in cognitive biases along with Amos 
Tversky, with whom he developed prospect theory. 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Kahneman 
080-12-59-12205  
6. This work claims that the incorporation of a whitewashed German nihilism into American liberal 
ideology has led to the title phenomenon. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Allan Bloom work, which criticizes the American university system for embracing a facile 
multiculturalism and kowtowing to 1960's radical movements. 
ANSWER:  
The  Closing of the American Mind 
[10] The introduction to  
The Closing of the American Mind 
 attacks this ideology, which holds that 
behaviors can only be judged according to the values of the specific culture in which they originate. 
ANSWER: cultural  
relativism 
[10] Bloom called this author \"Dale Carnegie with a bit of middle European whipped cream on top.\" This 
author of  
The Art of Loving 
 claimed that existential angst makes submission to authoritarian regimes more 
appealing in  
Escape from Freedom 
. 
ANSWER: Erich Seligmann  
Fromm 
080-12-59-12206  
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  7 of 12 
7. Because this compound has an odd number of electrons, it exists in equilibrium with its dimerized form. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this compound with nitrogen in a +4 oxidation state, which is formed by reacting nitric oxide 
with oxygen. 
ANSWER:  
nitrogen dioxide 
 [or  
NO 
2 
; or  
nitrogen (IV) oxide 
 (nitrogen-four-oxide); prompt on  
nitrogen 
oxide 
; do not accept or prompt on “nitrous oxide”] 
[10] Nitrogen dioxide reacts with water in one step of the Ostwald process, which forms this strong acid 
with formula HNO . 
3 
ANSWER:  
nitric 
 acid 
[10] The formation of the nitrogen-nitrogen bond when NO  dimerizes causes it to lose this property. 
2 
Molecular orbital theory was partially developed to explain this property's occurrence in liquid oxygen. 
ANSWER:  
paramagnetism 
 [accept word forms like  
paramagnetic 
; prompt on  
magnetism 
 or similar 
answers] 
132-12-59-12207  
8. This author wrote an autobiographical trilogy consisting of  
Childhood, Boyhood, 
   and  
Youth. 
 For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this author, whose novel  
Resurrection 
 is about a nobleman whose experiences visiting a prison 
cause him to reexamine his life. Another of his novels begins with the famous line, “Happy families are all 
alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” 
ANSWER: Leo  
Tolstoy 
 [or Lev Nikolayevich  
Tolstoy 
] 
[10] That aforementioned Tolstoy novel is this one, in which the title woman has an affair with Count 
Vronsky before ultimately throwing herself under a train. 
ANSWER:  
Anna Karenina 
[10] Tolstoy reportedly played a game involving this animal as a child. In Dostoevsky’s  
Winter Notes on 
Summer Impressions, 
 he asks the reader to try not to think of this animal, which will inevitably result in the 
person always thinking of it. Psychologist Daniel Wegner later ran an experiment proving that assertion. 
ANSWER:  
polar bear 
 [or  
white bear 
; prompt on  
bear 
] 
052-12-59-12208  
9. This Republican was a leader in the Conservative Coalition against the New Deal alongside Democrat 
Richard Russell, Jr. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this United States non-interventionist Senator who condemned the Nuremberg Trials as an 
instance of victor's justice. He lost the Republican nomination to Dewey in 1948 and narrowly lost again to 
Eisenhower in 1952. 
ANSWER:  obert Alphonso  
R Taft 
 [prompt on  
Taft 
] 
[10] Robert Taft also sponsored the Labor-Management Relations Act along with Hartley, which amended 
this 1935 act that limits the power of employers to regulate labor unions and strikes. 
ANSWER:  
National Labor Relations 
 Act [or  
Wagner 
 Act] 
[10] The Wagner Act was found constitutional in a 1937 Supreme Court case between the National Labor 
Relations Board and this steel company. 
ANSWER:  
Jones and Laughlin 
 Steel Corporation 
127-12-59-12209  
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  8 of 12 
10. This character loses connection with humanity after his best friend William frames him for theft, 
leading to his expulsion from Lantern Yard. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character, who then becomes a miser until his accumulated gold is stolen by Dunstan. He 
experiences spiritual rebirth while raising his adopted daughter, Eppie. 
ANSWER: Silas  
Marner 
 [or  
Silas 
 Marner] 
[10]  
Silas Marner 
 was written by this English Victorian novelist, who wrote under a male pseudonym. She 
also wrote  
Middlemarch. 
ANSWER: George  
Eliot 
 [or Mary Ann  
Evans 
] 
[10] In  
Silas Marner, 
 this son of a squire fears that his secret marriage to the opium-addicted Molly will 
ruin his social standing. He gets off scot-free when Molly dies and Silas takes in his daughter, Eppie. 
ANSWER:  
Godfrey 
 Cass [prompt on  
Cass 
] 
080-12-59-12210  
11. This god was honored yearly in the Toxcatl festival, at which one man got selected to live like a king 
imitating this god for a year and the previous man who did so was killed. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Aztec god of the night sky, who is often depicted as a jaguar. 
ANSWER:  
Tezcatlipoca 
[10] Tezcatlipoca was often depicted with one of these objects, usually one made of obsidian and/or 
emitting smoke. In some myths, this item appears in place of a foot he lost at the world’s creation while 
fighting the Earth Monster. 
ANSWER: a smoking  
mirror 
 [or obsidian  
mirror 
] 
[10] In some myths, Tezcatlipoca was the first of these celestial objects. In Greek myth, Helios takes this 
role. 
ANSWER: the  
sun 
104-12-59-12211  
12. In 1966, he recorded  
The Empty Foxhole 
 with his son, Denardo, playing the drums - at the age of ten. 
For ten points each: 
[10] Name this jazz musician who recorded  
The Shape of Jazz to Come 
. 
ANSWER: Ornette  
Coleman 
[10] After watching Coleman in concert, this trumpeter was said to have declared him \"all screwed up 
inside.\" He recorded  
Filles de Kilimanjaro 
 and  
Kind of Blue 
. 
ANSWER: Miles Dewey  
Davis 
 III 
[10] Coleman collaborated on this woman's album  
Universal Consciousness 
. She also recorded  
Journey in 
Satchidananda 
, and her husband released  
Giant Steps 
. 
ANSWER:  lice  
A Coltrane 
 [or Alice  
McLeod 
] 
088-12-59-12212  
13. On October 3, 2010, the final redemption on bonds issued to guarantee these payments was delivered. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify these very long-term payments whose restructuring was the subject of the Dawes and Young 
Plans. 
ANSWER:  
German reparation 
s for World War I [accept equivalents] 
[10] Attempts to collect reparations from Germany had been suspended in 1932 after a conference at this 
city. A 1923 treaty here recognized the state of Turkey and was the final treaty ending World War I. 
ANSWER:  
Lausanne 
[10] The case for reparations was outlined in Article 231 of the Treaty of Versailles, which is usually 
known by this name, for its assertions about Germany's responsibility for the conflict. 
ANSWER: \"war  
guilt 
\" clause 
019-12-59-12213  
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  9 of 12 
14. This man claimed “good artists were philosophers who had overcome philosophy” in his essay, “We 
Metaphysicians.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this practitioner of  
pittura metafisica 
, who painted  
Nostalgia of the Infinite 
 and  
Enigma of the 
Hour. 
ANSWER: Giorgio  
de Chirico 
[10] Sylvia Plath wrote a poem addressed to her mother inspired by this painting by De Chirico. The two 
title figures are Classical statues with the heads of mannequins is in the foreground, and there is a red castle 
in the city of Ferrara in its background. 
ANSWER:  
The  Disquieting Muses 
 [or  
Le  Muse inquietanti 
] 
[10] De Chirico also helped develop this art movement, whose manifesto was written by Andre Breton and 
whose exponents included Salvador Dali. 
ANSWER:  
Surrealism 
121-12-59-12214  
15. This author calls himself a \"rusty head sailor with sea green eyes\" and declares, \"Either I'm nobody or 
I'm a nation\" in \"The Schooner  
Flight 
.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poet of \"Sea Grapes\" who described \"marble like Greece, like Faulkner's South in stone\" in 
\"Ruins of a Great House.\" 
ANSWER: Derek  
Walcott 
[10] Walcott may be best known for this epic poem about Achille and Hector, who compete over Helen. 
ANSWER:  
Omeros 
[10] Walcott's \"The Castaway\" was inspired by this creation of Daniel Defoe, who must survive on a 
Caribbean island after being shipwrecked. 
ANSWER: Robinson  
Crusoe 
 [or  
Robinson 
 Crusoe] 
080-12-59-12215  
16. One war in the country was supposedly sparked when a former slave called her former master a \"pig's 
head.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country home to the Maori. Henry Williams, a missionary in this country, described the 
Musket Wars, which occurred in this country following Hongi Hika's acquisition of guns. 
ANSWER:  
New Zealand 
[10] Many Maori chiefs signed this treaty co-drafted by James Busby and William Hobson. Debate over the 
meaning of the word \"governship\" in this treaty led to hostility between the British and Maori. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Waitangi 
[10] William Williams briefly persuaded Hone Heke not to cut down one of these objects located on Maiki 
Hill. Heke eventually did, sparking a war named for this object. 
ANSWER:  
flagstaff 
 [or  
Flagstaff 
 War] 
149-12-59-12216  
17. An attempt by the de Lesseps company to build this structure in the 1880's ended in disaster due to 
rampant disease. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Central American waterway, completed in 1914. 
ANSWER:  
Panama Canal 
[10] The Gaillard Cut connects this large artificial lake created by the Panama Canal that receives water 
from the Chagres River. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Gatun 
[10] A bridge between Staten Island and New Jersey is named for this civil engineer who supervised the 
construction of the canal. 
ANSWER: George Washington  
Goethals 
064-12-59-12217  
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  10 of 12 
18. Mesons are made up of one these particles and the anti- type of this particle, whereas baryons are made 
up of three of these. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this class of fundamental particles that come in up, down, charm, strange, top, and bottom 
varieties. 
ANSWER:  
quark 
[10] This man is credited with discovering the quark along with George Zweig. He showed how the quark 
model explains the eightfold way of organizing baryons and mesons, which in turn becomes the SU(3) 
flavor symmetry. 
ANSWER: Murray  
Gell-Mann 
[10] Gell-Mann also names a formula with Nishijima that gives this physical quantity as equal to isospin 
plus one half the sum of baryon number and strangeness. 
ANSWER:  
charge 
127-12-59-12218  
19. The speaker of this poem leaves the lecture-room to go to \"the mystical moist night-air, and from time 
to time, looked up in perfect silence at the stars.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem whose speaker sees \"the proofs, the figures...the charts and the diagrams\" of the title 
scientist. 
ANSWER: \" 
When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer 
\" 
[10] In this poem, the speaker reflects on \"the varied carols I hear,\" including those of mechanics, 
carpenters, masons, boatmen, shoemakers, woodcutters, and mothers. 
ANSWER: \" 
I Hear America Singing 
\" 
[10] \"When I heard the Learn'd Astronomer\" and \"I Hear America Singing\" are part of this poetry 
collection by Walt Whitman, most of which consists of his poem \"Song of Myself.\" 
ANSWER:  
Leaves of Grass 
020-12-59-12219  
20. The drug cilengitide is being studied for its selectivity for these proteins, which may play a role in 
inhibiting angiogenesis. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these proteins which mediate cell attachment to other cells or to the extracellular matrix. They 
can bind to collagen and fibronectins. 
ANSWER:  
integrin 
s 
[10] Integrin binding to the ECM can trigger the release of kinases which are involved in this process, the 
propagation of an intracellular response to an extracellular event. 
ANSWER:  
signal 
 transduction [or word forms like  
signaling 
] 
[10] During cell migration, integrins are shuttled from the membrane to the cell's interior by this process, in 
which cells engulf objects. 
ANSWER:  
endocytosis 
020-12-59-12220  
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  11 of 12 
21. Performing this operation on two orthogonal vectors yields a value of zero. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this algebraic operation that, for two vectors, returns a value equal to the product of the 
magnitudes of those vectors times the cosine of the angle between them unlike the cross product. 
ANSWER:  
dot 
 product [or  
scalar 
 product] 
[10] This inequality states that, for two vectors x and y, the modulus of the inner product between x and y is 
less than or equal to the product of the magnitudes of x and y. 
ANSWER:  
Cauchy-Schwarz 
 inequality [or  
Cauchy 
 inequality; or  
Schwarz 
 inequality; or  
Cauchy-Schwarz-Bunyakovsky 
 inequality] 
[10] The two sides of the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality are equal if and only if the two vectors x and y have 
this property. Two vectors have this property if one can be written as a linear combination of the other. 
ANSWER:  
linearly dependent 
149-12-59-12221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 12     Page  12 of 12 
