Colonia 2014 
Round 3 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. Spacecraft specifically investigating these phenomena include Hinode (HE-node-ay), Yohkoh, and 
RHESSI (RESS-ee). Nitrates and beryllium-10 persist in Greenland from an 1859 example of these 
phenomena called the Carrington event. They are classified as A, B, C, M, X, or Z depending on the peak 
flux. These events are similar to coronal mass ejections, and they can trigger geomagnetic storms with the 
potential to knock out power. Name these events in which a large amount of energy enters the Earth's 
ionosphere, after being discharged from the Sun. 
ANSWER:  
solar flare 
s [or  
coronal mass ejections 
 until it is read; or  
CME 
 until \"coronal mass ejections\" 
is read; or  
geomagnetic storm 
s until it is read; prompt on  
flare 
s] 
020--105-03101 
2. This event was ended prematurely when Christina Maslach, who later married its organizer, objected to 
what was going on. Conducted in the basement of Jordan Hall, this event featured a man emulating a 
character from the film  
Cool Hand Luke, 
 earning him the inaccurate nickname \"John Wayne.\" Of the 
twenty-four participants, twelve were named guards and quickly began physically abusing the others. Name 
this 1971 Philip Zimbardo experiment testing the abuse of power, which took place at a California 
university. 
ANSWER:  
Stanford prison 
 experiment 
052--105-03102 
3. Calculations involving this force can be improved by using the Bouguer (boo-JAY) or free-air 
corrections. An equipotential surface for this force is the geoid (JEE-oyd), the shape the oceans would take 
if they covered the Earth. A constant used in calculations with this force is equal to 6.67 times 10 to the 
minus 11. Because the Earth is an oblate spheroid, calculations involving this force deviate from Newton's 
law. Name this attractive force that causes things to flow or fall towards the Earth's center. 
ANSWER:  
gravity 
066--105-03103 
4. One of this author's characters is infuriated to lose a literary competition to the incompetent poet Carlos 
Daneri. In another story, this author imagined a building containing every permutation of twenty-two 
characters arranged into 3,200 characters per page, with 410 pages per book. Yu Tsun narrates a story by 
this author that philosophizes about a labyrinth where each path represents the potential outcomes from a 
decision. Name this Argentinian author who wrote \"The Library of Babel\" and \"The Garden of Forking 
Paths.\" 
ANSWER: Jorge Luis  
Borges 
190--105-03104 
5. In this author's first play, Karl Moor kills his lover Amalia after the accusations of his brother Franz 
force him to live with the title outlaws. This author depicted the last days of Mary, Queen of Scots in  
Mary 
Stuart 
. This author of  
The Robbers 
 penned the line \"Be embraced, millions!\" in a poem addressing its 
subject as the \"daughter of Elysium.\" He occasionally collaborated with his contemporary, Johann 
Wolfgang von Goethe. Name this German Romantic poet and playwright, the author of \"Ode to Joy.\" 
ANSWER: Friedrich  
Schiller 
080--105-03105 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  1 of 18 
6. During this day, believers practice vidui (vee-doo-EE) in order to amend their yearly fate in the Book of 
Life. This day names a 1973 war between an Egypt-led Arab coalition and Israel, also known as the 
Ramadan War. Services on this holiday begin with the Kol Nidre (cole NEE-dray) prayer, and it marks the 
end of the High Holy Days. This day, marked by fasting and asking for God's forgiveness, falls nine days 
after the new year, Rosh Hashanah. Name this Jewish day of atonement. 
ANSWER:  
Yom Kippur 
005--105-03106 
7. During this war, two battles were fought at St. Albans, the latter of which led to Henry VI's release from 
captivity. Richard Neville became known as Warwick the Kingmaker for his actions during this conflict. In 
its climactic clash, Richard III exclaimed, \"A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse!\" before dying at 
Bosworth Field. Identify these fifteenth-century English conflicts between the Houses of Lancaster and 
York, named for their red and white floral emblems. 
ANSWER: Wars of the  
Roses 
233--105-03107 
8. This statement will be tested in late 2014 by the French project MICROSCOPE, which intends to set 
even lower limits on the Eotvos (ET-vish) parameter. One version of this statement includes local Lorentz 
invariance and local positional invariance. A less rigorous version of it holds that the ratio of mass to 
weight is locally constant, and includes the universality of free fall. Name this principle stating that uniform 
acceleration and the effects of a gravitational field are indistinguishable. 
ANSWER:  
equivalence 
 principle [or weak  
equivalence 
 principle; or strong  
equivalence 
 principle; or 
Galilean-Newtonian  
equivalence 
 principle; or Einstein  
equivalence 
 principle; or  
universality 
 of  
free fall 
until it is read] 
003--105-03108 
9. Allan Maxam and Walter Gilbert developed a method for performing this process in 1977. Frederick 
Sanger won his second Nobel Prize for devising the \"chain-termination method\" for performing this action, 
which uses ddNTPs (d-d-N-T-Ps). Craig Venter's Celera used the \"shotgun\" method of performing this 
action to accomplish it much faster than the Human Genome Project could. Name this procedure that 
determines the order of nucleotides in the molecule that encodes genetic data. 
ANSWER: DNA  
sequencing 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
080--105-03109 
10. Lorenzetto sculpted the Madonna del Sasso above this man's tomb in the Pantheon in Rome. Two 
bored-looking cherubim appear at the bottom of his altarpiece in Piacenza (pee-uh-CHEN-zuh), the  
Sistine 
Madonna. 
 His painting of the  
Disputation of the Holy Sacrament 
 hangs directly across from his most 
famous fresco, which depicts Plato and Aristotle walking down a staircase, surrounded by other 
intellectuals. Name this Renaissance painter of  
The School of Athens. 
ANSWER:  
Raphael 
 [or  
Raffaelo 
 Sanzio de Urbino; or  
Santi 
] 
190--105-03110 
11. Prominent performers of this instrument include Alex Klein and Heinz Hollinger. Mozart's D major 
flute concerto was reworked from a C major concerto for this instrument, which introduces the Swan theme 
from  
Swan Lake. 
 The cor anglais is a member of this instrument's family. The concert A played by this 
instrument is used to tune the rest of the orchestra. The Duck in  
Peter and the Wolf 
 is represented by this 
instrument. Name this double reed woodwind instrument. 
ANSWER:  
oboe 
020--105-03111 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  2 of 18 
12. Michael Heseltine resigned from this person's government over the future of the Westland Company. 
Patrick Magee used a time bomb to try to kill this person while she was staying in Brighton. This person 
became Prime Minister after the Winter of Discontent. As Prime Minister, this woman privatized 
Rolls-Royce, BP, and British Airways. Name this \"Iron Lady,\" Britain’s Conservative Prime Minister from 
1979 to 1990. 
ANSWER: Margaret  
Thatcher 
149--105-03112 
13. This present-day country is where the Babi Yar massacre occurred at a ravine near the capital. Millions 
of residents of this present-day country died in the Holodomor, a genocidal mass famine resulting from 
collectivized farming. In 2004, Victor Yanukovych won a rigged election in this country, but was deposed 
by popular outcry in the Orange Revolution. Name this former Soviet republic where the  
Battleship 
Potemkin 
 docked in Odessa. 
ANSWER:  
Ukraine 
080--105-03113 
14. These compounds can be chlorinated using S–O–Cl 2 or brominated using P–Br 3. Both PCC and the 
Jones reagent oxidize these compounds to ketones. Though not amines (AA-meenz), the number of carbon 
atoms attached to their defining functional group determines whether they are primary, secondary, or 
tertiary. An example of these compounds is generated along with carbon dioxide when yeast enzymes 
consume glucose. These compounds have a hydroxyl group bounded to carbon atom. Name these 
compounds whose examples include methanol, ethanol, and a type of isopropyl. 
ANSWER:  
alcohol 
s 
189--105-03114 
15. The skin of organisms in this phylum is embedded with small calcareous (CAL-suh-riss) ossicles. The 
mouth of a group of organisms in this phylum was described by Aristotle and is known as his namesake 
\"lantern\". A madreporite (MAD-rep-ore-ite) allows fluid into a structure characteristic to this phylum, 
which then runs through the stone canal. Connected tube feet make up this phylum's water vascular system, 
enabling members to move across the ocean floor. Identify this phylum of \"spiny-skinned\" marine animals 
such as starfish and sea urchins. 
ANSWER:  
echinoderm 
ata [or  
echinoderms 
] 
233--105-03115 
16. One of this author's novels opens with Pete helping his friend in a fight, though his seduction of 
Jimmie's sister, the title character, leads to her prostitution and death. One of this author's protagonists takes 
up the flag during a seemingly suicidal charge of the 304th Regiment. This author of  
Maggie, A Girl of the 
Streets 
 is best known for a novel about the initially-cowardly Civil War soldier Henry Fleming. Identify 
this American author of  
The Red Badge of Courage. 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Crane 
233--105-03116 
17. If a function satisfies Laplace's (luh-PLOSS-iz) equation, then its mean value on the surface of this 
figure equals its value at this figure's center. The gravitational force exerted by a shell of this shape on a 
particle inside the shell is always zero. The constant of proportionality for moment of inertia of a hollow 
one of these is two-thirds, while a solid one has constant two-fifths. This is the shape of the orbital with 
azimuthal quantum number zero, known as the s orbital. Identify this shape which has volume four-thirds 
pi r-cubed. 
ANSWER:  
sphere 
s [or word forms, such as  
spherical 
] 
233--105-03117 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  3 of 18 
18. This author created a character who works unhappily at the New Albion ad agency. This writer created 
Gordon Comstock, as well as Pilkington and Frederick, who own Foxwood and Pinchfield respectively. In 
a novel by him, the protagonist receives a book written by Emmanuel Goldstein. Charrington betrays Julia 
and her lover in this man's novel about Winston Smith. Mr Jones is overthrown by Snowball and Napoleon 
in another novel by him. Name this author of  
Animal Farm 
 and  
1984 
. 
ANSWER: George  
Orwell 
 [or Eric Arthur  
Blair 
] 
232--105-03118 
19. As a wind god, he was shown with a mask with two tubes, and he was sometimes identified as the 
planet Venus. He had a dog-headed companion named Xolotl (shuh-LOT-ul) who descended into Mictlan 
to gather the bones of the dead. He was the god of the morning and evening star. One of this god's 
personalites was known as Ehecatl (eh-heh-COT-ul). This god's rival was Tezcatlipoca 
(tez-CAT-lee-POE-kuh), and he was exiled on a raft made of snakes. Name this feathered serpent god of 
Aztec mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Quetzalcoatl 
030--105-03119 
20. This writer parodied Robert Southey in his poem  
The Vision of Judgment 
. This friend of Thomas Moore 
died at Missolonghi. The title character feels guilt for Astarte's death in his “metaphysical drama”,  
Manfred 
. This poet exclaims “A heart whose love is innocent!” about a woman whose eyes have “all that’s best of 
dark and bright”. This poet of “She Walks in Beauty” also wrote a satire about a womanizing Spanish 
nobleman. Name this Romantic poet of  
Don Juan 
. 
ANSWER: Lord  
Byron 
 [or George Gordon  
Byron 
, 6th Baron Byron] 
232--105-03120 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  4 of 18 
Colonia 2014 
Round 3 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. This artist first attracted notice when sixteen of his paintings were shown at the Whitney Studio Club. A 
secretary rushes to pick up dropped papers in this artist's  
Office at Night, 
 which along with his image 
featuring a single barber pole,  
Early Sunday Morning, 
 captured the sense of urban isolation. In his most 
famous painting, a sign for Phillies cigars is displayed on the exterior of a late-night diner serving three 
people. Name this American painter of  
Nighthawks. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Hopper 
004--105-03121 
2. Pieces originally for this instrument include \"The Mysterious Barricades,\" by Francois Couperin. A piece 
originally composed for this instrument meant to help Count Keyserling (KAI-zer-ling) sleep consisted of 
an aria with 30 variations. A series of 555 sonatas for this instrument was written by Domenico Scarlatti. 
The Goldberg Variations were composed for this instrument by J.S. Bach. Name this keyboard instrument 
popular in the Baroque period that produce music by plucking, rather than striking, their strings. 
ANSWER:  
harpsichord 
080--105-03122 
3. In this country, workers building the Stalinallee Boulevard rioted against the government in 1953. This 
country attempted to create a more efficient economy through Wolfgang Berger's New Economic System. 
Kurt Wismach shouted for free elections to be held in this country while Walter Ulbricht gave a speech. 
This country enacted a plan of \"consumer socialism\" while led by Erich Honecker. This country employed 
the Stasi police force and was where the Berlin Wall was built. Name this former country that was reunited 
with its western counterpart in 1990. 
ANSWER:  
East Germany 
 [or  
GDR 
; or  
German Democratic Republic 
; or  
Deutsche Demokratische 
Republik 
; do not accept or prompt on \"Germany\"] 
186--105-03123 
4. Early rulers of this empire were called \"labarna\" after its apocryphal founder, and it reached its apex 
under the reigns of Suppiluliumas I and Mursilis II. Bogazkoy served as the capital of this empire, that 
fought Ramses II at Kadesh, and its power began to wane with attacks from the Assyrians and the Sea 
Peoples. Name this fourteenth century BCE empire in Turkey that crafted iron artifacts. 
ANSWER:  
Hittite 
 empire 
144--105-03124 
5. The work function of a metal can be found by taking Planck's constant times frequency for the absorbed 
photon and subtracting this quantity for the emitted electron. The equipartition theorem sets it equal to 
three-halves times Boltzmann's constant times temperature. Its rotational component is proportional to the 
angular velocity squared. It is conserved in elastic, but not inelastic, collisions. Its change is equal to the 
work done on the system. Name this quantity equal to half of mass times velocity squared, the energy of 
motion. 
ANSWER:  
kinetic 
 energy [or  
KE 
; or  
E sub k 
] 
190--105-03125 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  5 of 18 
6. This composer hated the recording industry and coined the term \"canned music\" to describe recorded 
pieces. He wrote a piece for the awards ceremony of an essay contest being run by the  
Washington Post. 
While serving as the leader of \"The President's Own,\" this composer wrote the song \"Semper Fidelis,\" 
which was made the official song of the Marine Corps. Name this American \"March King\" who composed 
\"The Stars and Stripes Forever\" and is the namesake of a tuba-like brass instrument. 
ANSWER: John Philip  
Sousa 
023--105-03126 
7. This novel's sequel features characters Lew Rabinowitz and Sammy Singer, and is titled  
Closing Time 
. A 
name mixup in this novel leads to the sending home of A. Fortiori, instead of the man Major Sanderson 
thought crazy, leading to the protagonist asking Dobbs if he will kill Colonel Cathcart. M&M Enterprises 
makes millions for this novel's character Milo Minderbinder. In this novel, Yossarian can't stop flying 
bombing missions unless he's insane, but his desire to stop bombing proves his sanity. Identify this novel 
by Joseph Heller. 
ANSWER:  
Catch-22 
233--105-03127 
8. Though he sided with the Greeks during the Trojan War, this god escorts Priam to Achilles's camp in the  
Iliad. 
 Odysseus was descended from this god, as his grandfather was Autolycus (AH-tow-LYE-kuss). Two 
snakes intertwined around a staff, or a caduceus, is a symbol of this deity. His mother was the eldest of the 
Pleiades and was named Maia (MY-uh). As a child, this god used the entrails of Apollo’s cattle to fashion 
a lyre. Name this god depicted with winged sandals, a trickster and messenger god. 
ANSWER:  
Hermes 
190--105-03128 
9. This king's general Sagmandia captured Gao, the capital of a neighboring empire. He employed an 
architect from Granada named as-Sahili and had the Sankore (sahn-CORE-eh) and Djinguereber 
(JING-uh-ray-bare) mosques built. Writing twelve years after this man traveled through, al-Umari claimed 
that his visit was still being talked about in Cairo. He allegedly flooded Cairo's gold market during his 
extremely lavish hajj. Name this fourteenth century ruler who served as the mansa of Mali. 
ANSWER: Kankan  
Musa 
 I [or Mansa  
Musa 
] 
023--105-03129 
10. This painting was originally dismissed as a \"hodgepodge of body parts that any four-year-old could 
have painted.\" On the bottom of this painting, a dying man holds in his right hand a flower and a broken 
sword, below a woman who pokes her head out a window and holds out a lamp. This painting originally 
shown at the Paris Exposition in 1937 depicts a bird, a bull, and a screaming horse. Name this painting 
inspired by the German bombing of a town during the Spanish Civil War, painted by Pablo Picasso. 
ANSWER:  
Guernica 
023--105-03130 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  6 of 18 
1. Answer the following about African conflicts. 
[5] Martinus Steyn and Paul Kruger led the Transvaal Republic and Orange Free State during what war, 
fought from 1899 to 1902 against Afrikaners in South Africa? 
ANSWER: Second  
Boer 
 War [or Anglo- 
Boer 
 War; accept  
South African 
 War before \"South Africa\"] 
[10] Which country was the site of Operation Anvil, which targeted the planners of the Mau Mau 
Rebellion? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Kenya 
[15] Which country defeated Italy at the Battle of Adowa while led by Menelik II? 
ANSWER: Federal Democratic Republic of  
Ethiopia 
[20] What 1987 war between Libya and Chad was named for the pickup trucks used to transport troops? 
ANSWER:  
Toyota 
 War 
023--105-03101 
2. Name these musically important places. 
[5] What country's native composers created  
The Four Seasons 
 and  
The Pines of Rome>? 
ANSWER:  
Italy 
 [or  
Italian 
 Republic; or Repubblica  
Italiana 
] 
[10] Arnold Schoenberg led a school named after what city, in which they used the twelve-tone technique 
he developed? 
ANSWER:  
Vienna 
 [or  
Wien 
] 
[15] What German city holds an annual festival for the performance of Richard Wagner pieces, and is 
home to an opera house built specifically for Wagner’s operas? 
ANSWER:  
Bayreuth 
[20] What legendary city in Brittany was the subject of an Edouard Lalo opera about its king? 
ANSWER:  
Ys 
140--105-03102 
3. Name these places where famous hills are found. 
[5] The Red Hill was reportedly the site of a massacre of Circassian nationalists and is found near what host 
city of the 2014 Winter Olympics? 
ANSWER:  
Sochi 
[10] What American city on the west coast contains the wealthy Nob Hill district and was recently led by 
Mayor Gavin Newsom? 
ANSWER:  
San Francisco 
[15] The world's tallest hill, Cavanal Hill, is in what state, who features as Senator the staunch conservative 
Tom Coburn? 
ANSWER:  
Oklahoma 
[20] Due to a dispute over invasive species, the namesake feature of what symbol of Auckland, New 
Zealand has been absent for nearly twenty years? 
ANSWER:  
One Tree 
 Hill 
052--105-03103 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  7 of 18 
4. Name these Italian areas. 
[5] What large island includes the city of Syracuse and is separated from Italy by only two miles? 
ANSWER:  
Sicily 
 [or  
Sicilia 
] 
[10] Which island in the Mediterranean was the birthplace of Napoleon Buonaparte? 
ANSWER:  
Corsica 
[15] What city that was the home of Andrea Doria and Christopher Columbus? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Genoa 
[20] What term for Southern Italy, based on the position of the sun, is an Italian shorthand for the region's 
persistent poverty and corruption? 
ANSWER: \" 
Mezzogiorno 
\" 
015--105-03104 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  8 of 18 
Colonia 2014 
Round 3 
Letter D 
Letter F 
Letter B 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  9 of 18 
Letter D 
[10] Which African-American poet of \"We Wear the Mask\" wrote \"I know why the caged bird sings\" in his 
poem \"Sympathy?\" 
ANSWER: Paul Lawrence  
Dunbar 
[10] Which European country was forced to give Schleswig-Holstein to Prussia while ruled by Christian 
IX? 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Denmark 
[10] Which defense attorney represented Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb in their murder trial and 
opposed William Jennings Bryan while defending the science teacher John Scopes? 
ANSWER: Clarence Seward  
Darrow 
[10] Which French neoclassical painter depicted Napoleon's coronation and also painted  
The Death of 
Socrates 
 and  
The Oath of the Horatii 
? 
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis  
David 
[10] Which French Romantic painter depicted a barebreasted woman holding a tricolor above a barricade in 
Liberty Leading the People 
? 
ANSWER: Ferdinand Victor Eugene  
Delacroix 
[10] Which Biblical character deciphers the writing on Belshazzar's wall and survives being thrown into a 
lion's den? 
ANSWER:  
Daniel 
[10] Jared Leto won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor while playing a transvestite with HIV 
in which 2013 movie? 
ANSWER:  
Dallas Buyers Club 
[10] Which jazz trumpeter and bandleader composed the albums  
Birth of the Cool 
 and  
Kind of Blue 
? 
ANSWER: Miles Dewey  
Davis 
 III 
[10] Which French composer wrote  
The Sorcerer's Apprentice 
? 
ANSWER: Paul Abraham  
Dukas 
[10] Name the pharaoh of Egypt who commissioned Imhotep to build the first step pyramid. 
ANSWER:  
Djoser 
186--105-0310-3 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  10 of 18 
Letter F 
[10] What sole opera by Beethoven features the titular character of Leonore disguised as a prison guard? 
ANSWER:  
Fidelio 
[10] What woodcut by Albrecht Durer includes Famine and Pestilence trampling over hapless victims? 
ANSWER:  
The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse 
[10] What political party, whose members included Charles Cotesworth Pinckney and Rufus King, 
disbanded after the War of 1812? 
ANSWER:  
Federalist 
 Party 
[10] What is the name of the origin point of an earthquake that lies directly below the epicenter? 
ANSWER:  
focus 
[10] What sister city of Dallas is the home of the Van Cliburn piano competition and Texas Christian 
University? 
ANSWER:  
Fort Worth 
[10] What Catholic saint is known as Poverello and is known for preaching to birds? 
ANSWER: Saint  
Francis of Assisi 
[10] What heir to the throne to the Austro-Hungarian Empire was assassinated by Gavrilo Princip in 1914? 
ANSWER:  
Franz Ferdinand 
 [or  
Francis Ferdinand 
] 
[10] What American jazz singer gained fame for her rendition of “A-Tisket, A-Tasket”? 
ANSWER: Ella  
Fitzgerald 
[10] What medieval sect was known for traveling throughout Europe and whipping each other during the 
Black Death? 
ANSWER:  
flagellants 
[10] What Disney film prominently features music such as  
Rite of Spring 
 and  
Night on Bald Mountain 
? 
ANSWER:  
Fantasia 
030--105-0310-3 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  11 of 18 
Letter B 
[10] What principle states that increasing a fluid's speed will decrease its pressure? 
ANSWER:  
Bernoulli 
 principle 
[10] What early promoter of the scientific method wrote about the four Idols in the  
Novum Organum? 
ANSWER: Francis  
Bacon 
[10] What president helped write the Ostend Manifesto when minister to England? 
ANSWER: James  
Buchanan 
[10] What actor starred as Sam Spade in  
The Maltese Falcon 
 and as Rick in  
Casablanca? 
ANSWER: Humphrey  
Bogart 
[10] What country lost its coast after being defeated by Chile in the War of the Pacific? 
ANSWER:  
Bolivia 
[10] On what saints feast day were thousands of Hugenots killed during the French Wars of Religion? 
ANSWER: Saint  
Bartholomew 
 [or Saint- 
Barthélemy 
] 
[10] Who invented the telephone? 
ANSWER: Alexander Graham  
Bell 
[10] What are viruses that infect bacteria called? 
ANSWER:  
bacteriophage 
s 
[10] What circus owner displayed the dwarf Tom Thumb and allegedly said “There's a sucker born every 
minute?” 
ANSWER: Phineas Taylor  
Barnum 
[10] What is the nickname for English policemen that comes from the name of prime minister Robert Peel? 
ANSWER:  
Bobby 
 [or  
Bobbies 
] 
121--105-0310-3 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  12 of 18 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  13 of 18 
Colonia 2014 
Round 3 
20 20-Point Tossups 
1. This river contains a seventy-five-mile stretch of rough rapids dubbed \"The Gates of Hell.\" The central 
portion of this river's basin is known as the \"cuvette\" and contains the second-largest rainforest in the 
world. This river splits off at a point, creating a lake-like area now known as the Malebo Pool. The Lualaba 
is this river's largest tributary. For 20 points, the cities of Kinshasa and Brazzaville lie on the banks of what 
river? 
ANSWER:  
Congo 
 River 
230--105-03101 
2. Linolenic (LIE-no-leen-ik) acid from this organelle is used to make jasmonic acid, and the Tic and Toc 
translocons help transport molecules into this organelle. This organelle contains the strongest known 
biological reducing and oxidizing agents in P700 and P680, respectively. This organelle likely originated as 
cyanobacteria which formed an endosymbiotic (END-oh-sim-bee-AH-tik) relationship with a eukaryote. 
For 20 points, name this organelle that contains sacks called thylakoids which are surrounded by the 
stroma, where the Calvin cycle occurs. 
ANSWER:  
chloroplast 
s [prompt on  
plastid 
s] 
237--105-03102 
3. In one scene in this play, one character declares that \"the hungry lion roars, and the wolf behowls the 
moon.\" In this play, a group of townspeople led by Peter Quince perform the play  
Pyramis and Thisbe 
 for 
the wedding of Theseus. One character in this play is given the head of a donkey while in the forest 
surrounding Athens; that character is Nick Bottom. This play includes the lovers Lysander and Helena, as 
well as Hermia and Demetrius. For 20 points, name this Shakespeare play which features Oberon and 
Titania, as well as the trickster Puck. 
ANSWER:  
A  Midsummer Night's Dream 
186--105-03103 
4. According to one story, this hero performed a katabasis (KAH-tuh-BAH-sis) by being eaten and 
regurgitated by a dragon. In another story, this hero attacked Iolcus (ee-OL-kus) with Peleus after his 
cousins were tricked into boiling his uncle, thinking that it would make him younger. This hero 
successfully yoked two fire-breathing bulls, and he lost a sandal while helping a disguised Hera cross a 
river. For 20 points, name this husband of Medea. 
ANSWER:  
Jason 
227--105-03104 
5. Sir Philip Sidney's  
Defence of Poesy 
 describes the common medieval practice of predicting the future by 
selecting a line at random from this text. One character in this text falls behind in a footrace by slipping in 
some blood from an animal sacrifice, but trips another competitor to allow his friend to win. Earlier in this 
text, Aeolus summons a storm at the behest of Juno, who hates the main character as he is a survivor from 
Troy. The main character wars against Turnus after fleeing Carthage following the suicide of Dido. For 20 
points, name this Latin epic poem written by Virgil. 
ANSWER: the  
Aeneid 
020--105-03105 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  14 of 18 
6. Music from this country came to international attention thanks to the score for its film  
Black Orpheus 
. A 
recording of \"Desafinado\" by Charlie Byrd and Stan Getz helped popularize its music in the United States. 
Joao Gilberto and Antonio Carlos Jobim helped develop a style of music in this country whose name 
roughly means \"new wave.\" For 20 points, name this home country of  
bossa nova 
 music, the setting of the 
popular song \"The Girl from Ipanema.\" 
ANSWER:  
Brazil 
080--105-03106 
7. This structure is located within the sella turcica. Cysts can be found in the pars intermedia, which 
separates this structure's anterior and posterior sections. Cancer of this structure often leads to excess levels 
of ACTH and Cushing's disease. It is connected to the hypothalamus through the infundibulum 
(IN-fun-DIB-yoo-lum). It secretes hormones like oxytocin (OCK-see-TOH-sin) and vasopressin, or ADH, 
to regulate different systems in the body. For 20 points, name this gland in the brain, an important part of 
the endocrine system. 
ANSWER:  
pituitary 
 gland 
140--105-03107 
8. A song by Arthur Herzog and this singer notes that, \"Them that's got shall get, Them that's not shall 
lose.\" Frank O'Hara wrote a poem about the day this singer died. This singer received her nickname from 
her frequent collaborator Lester Young. She sang about \"Blood on the leaves and blood at the root\" in a 
song by Abel Meropool that she popularized. For 20 points, name this jazz singer who was nicknamed 
\"Lady Day,\" wrote  
Lady Sings the Blues, 
 and sang the anti-lynching piece \"Strange Fruit.\" 
ANSWER: Billie  
Holiday 
 [or Elinore  
Harris 
; prompt on  
Lady 
 Day until it is read] 
030--105-03108 
9. Gilbert Ryle described a theory of this thinker as the “ghost-in-the-machine” concept of mind. He 
offered a proof for God in a treatise that imagines a situation where all sensory and even mental 
experiences were unreliable. In  
Discourse on Method, 
 he showed that his own existence was the only fact it 
was impossible to doubt. For 20 points, name this French philosopher. 
ANSWER: René  
Descartes 
121--105-03109 
10. This man referred to South African bodyguards as the \"Gestapo\" when making a trip on behalf of Prime 
Minister Jan Smuts (YUN SMOOTS). Known as the \"Industrial Prince\" for his frequent tours of coal mines 
and factories, he was the father of a woman called \"Lilibet.\" This king took the throne after his older 
brother, Edward VIII, abdicated to marry Wallis Simpson. He underwent speech therapy with Dr. Lionel 
Logue to overcome his stammer. For 20 points, name this King of Britain during World War II, the father 
of Elizabeth II. 
ANSWER:  
George VI 
 [prompt on  
George 
] 
052--105-03110 
11. This object is used in a 1995 film by Chase Meridian, who is chastised for confusing it with a \"beeper.\" 
In an earlier film, it is displayed at a press conference in response to Alexander Knox's question \"how do 
we call him?\" At the end of a later film, this object is shown being destroyed with an axe under the words 
\"condemn me, set the dogs on me.\" In a 2005 film, this object is first conceived when Carmine Falcone 
(fal-COH-nee) is tied to a searchlight prior to the arrival of police. For 20 points, name this device which 
projects an image onto the clouds in  
The Dark Knight. 
ANSWER: the  
Bat-signal 
019--105-03111 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  15 of 18 
12. A series of bombings in this country occurred during the \"Hot Summer\" and were triggered by the 
influx of \"retornados.\" The song \"And After the Farewell\" was the signal to begin a revolution in this 
country, which was led by the MFA and overthrew Marcelo Caetano. This country was led by Antonio 
Salazar's Estado Novo, and during its liberalization, its colonies in Mozambique and Goa achieved 
independence. For 20 points, name this country whose autonomous regions include Madeira and the 
Azores. 
ANSWER:  
Portugal 
048--105-03112 
13. This man ordered the hasty construction of the Sviyazhsk (svee-ESK) fort during his campaign against 
Kazan. In a movie about this man, a feast changes from black and white to color when some of his 
bodyguards begin to dance. This subject of a 1944 Sergei Eisenstein film celebrated his conquest of Kazan 
by having St. Basil's Cathedral built. For 20 points, name this tsar who founded the oprichniki 
(op-rich-NEE-kee) after his wife Anastasia died. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan the Terrible 
 [or  
Ivan IV 
; or  
Ivan the Awesome 
; prompt on  
Ivan 
] 
186--105-03113 
14. A painting depicting this deity sleeping is sometimes named after its city of residence, Dresden, and 
was finished by Titian after the death of its original artist, Giorgione (jor-JOH-nay). In another painting, 
this deity stands in an orange grove to the right of the three Graces, who are dancing. A woman reaches out 
with a red cloak to clothe this goddess while Zephyr and Aura look on in a famous depiction of her. For 20 
points, name this goddess depicted by Botticelli. 
ANSWER:  
Venus 
 [or  
Aphrodite 
] 
140--105-03114 
15. During the race that determined the twelve Chinese zodiacs, this animal was saved by a log dropped by 
the dragon and arrived in fourth place. According to Japanese and Korean folklore, this animal can be 
found on the moon pounding rice cakes with its pestle. The German \"wolpertinger\" (VOLE-per-ting-gur) is 
the ancestor of the American belief in the jackalope, which is often described as one of these animals with 
deer antlers. For 20 points, name these animals. 
ANSWER:  
rabbit 
 [or  
hare 
] 
227--105-03115 
16. Writers using this language formed such literary movements as the Generation of ’98 and the 
Generation of ’27. The author of  
Hopscotch 
 used this language, many of whose 20th-century writers came 
to prominence in the literary “Boom.” This language was used by the author of  
Love in the Time of Cholera 
and  
One Hundred Years of Solitude. 
 For 20 points, name this language used by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. 
ANSWER:  
Spanish 
014--105-03116 
17. The first and last coefficients of an integer polynomial can be used to guess solutions to the polynomial 
with this property. Dividing one polynomial by another gives a function described by this adjective. The 
Greeks proved that the square root of two did not have this property. It is possessed by any number with a 
terminating decimal expansion, and any integer, but not any real number. For 20 points, identify this type 
of number which can be expressed as a fraction of two integers. 
ANSWER:  
rational 
 [or  
rational 
 number; or  
rational 
 function] 
132--105-03117 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  16 of 18 
18. In this novel, Marcela defends her decision to refuse to marry after it results in the death-by-heartbreak 
of the student Chrysostom. This novel's protagonist starts a brawl at an inn by insisting that a basin is the 
mythical Helmet of Mambrino. The protagonist of this novel sallies out on the nag Rocinante with his 
down-to-earth companion Sancho Panza, who pleads with him not to attack a group of windmills. For 20 
points, name this comic novel by Miguel de Cervantes about a Spanish nobleman who thinks he is a 
chivalric hero. 
ANSWER:  
Don Quixote  de La Mancha 
080--105-03118 
19. A 1936 experiment linked this phenomenon to perception of the autokinetic effect. Floyd Allport 
recorded how late workers were to their jobs to formulate his J-curve theory of this phenomenon. Groups of 
“confederates” tasked with matching line lengths on cards were used in an experiment on this behavior by 
Solomon Asch. It is related to compliance and obedience, and results from groupthink. For 20 points, 
identify this behavior in which individuals try to fit into a group norm. 
ANSWER:  
conformity 
232--105-03119 
20. This man depicted himself surrounded by owls and bats in  
The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters. 
This artist depicted a nude scene of a reclining woman, which can be found in the Prado next to his 
\"clothed\" version of the same woman. This man also painted the scene of a demonic creature consuming 
his offspring as a part of his  
Black Paintings 
 series. For 20 points, name this Spanish artist of  
Saturn 
Devouring His Children 
 who painted the massacre of Spanish citizens by Napoleon’s army in  
The Third of 
May, 1808. 
ANSWER: Francisco  
Goya 
227--105-03120 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  17 of 18 
Colonia 2014 
Round 3 
Tiebreakers 
1. This river contains a seventy-five-mile stretch of rough rapids dubbed \"The Gates of Hell.\" The central 
portion of this river's basin is known as the \"cuvette\" and contains the second-largest rainforest in the 
world. This river splits off at a point, creating a lake-like area now known as the Malebo Pool. The Lualaba 
is this river's largest tributary. For 20 points, the cities of Kinshasa and Brazzaville lie on the banks of what 
river? 
ANSWER:  
Congo 
 River 
230--105-03131 
2. Linolenic (LIE-no-leen-ik) acid from this organelle is used to make jasmonic acid, and the Tic and Toc 
translocons help transport molecules into this organelle. This organelle contains the strongest known 
biological reducing and oxidizing agents in P700 and P680, respectively. This organelle likely originated as 
cyanobacteria which formed an endosymbiotic (END-oh-sim-bee-AH-tik) relationship with a eukaryote. 
For 20 points, name this organelle that contains sacks called thylakoids which are surrounded by the 
stroma, where the Calvin cycle occurs. 
ANSWER:  
chloroplast 
s [prompt on  
plastid 
s] 
237--105-03132 
3. In one scene in this play, one character declares that \"the hungry lion roars, and the wolf behowls the 
moon.\" In this play, a group of townspeople led by Peter Quince perform the play  
Pyramis and Thisbe 
 for 
the wedding of Theseus. One character in this play is given the head of a donkey while in the forest 
surrounding Athens; that character is Nick Bottom. This play includes the lovers Lysander and Helena, as 
well as Hermia and Demetrius. For 20 points, name this Shakespeare play which features Oberon and 
Titania, as well as the trickster Puck. 
ANSWER:  
A  Midsummer Night's Dream 
186--105-03133 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
Colonia 2014     3     Page  18 of 18 
