NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 TOSSUPS  
1. One novelist from this country divided his masterpiece into three sections, “The Land,” “The  
Man,” and “The Fight,” in which he applied social Darwinist theories to a historical rebellion in  
the title region. Another novelist from here began his career with a sequence of six novels about  
various contingents of his country’s poor culminating in  Captains of the Sands.  That author from  
this country wrote about the romance between the Syrian bar owner Nacib Saad and the title  
cook in  Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon.  Another author from here wrote the formally innovative  
Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas.  For 10 points, name this country where writers such as  
Jorge Amado and Machado de Assis wrote in Portuguese.  
ANSWER:  Brazil   
2. This document caused a boom for the textile industry in Spitalfields, England. The Duke of  
Lesdiguieres enforced the laws of this document. Upon hearing of the signature of this  
document, Clement VIII claimed that \"liberty of conscience given to everybody is the worst  
thing in the world.\" A special court dealing with disputes from this document was the Chambre  
de l’Edit. The Peace of Alais was signed to restrict political power from a group of people who  
received places de surete from this document. A mass exodus was prompted by this document’s  
revocation by Louis XIV signing into law the Edict of Fontainebleau. For 10 points, identify this  
16th century document by Henry IV which granted religious freedom to Huguenots.  
ANSWER: Edict of  Nantes   
3. Police investigated this man for the 2003 theft of Iraqi war criminal Tariq Aziz’s cigar case.  
NPR claimed this man used a campaign slogan saying if you voted for his party, \"your wife will  
get bigger breasts.\" A fan of cycling, he lends his name to Barclays Cycle Hire bicycles used in  
the city he works in. This man won his current position by defeating Ken Livingstone, thanks to  
high voter turnout in the Bexley and Bromley districts. In November 2013, this politician  
announced the \"Tube\" transit system would run twenty-four-hours on weekends. This  
Conservative politician, who is noted for his unruly hair, served as Mayor during the 2012  
Summer Olympic Games. For 10 points, name this Mayor of London.  
ANSWER: Alexander Boris de Pfeffel  Johnson   
4. The fact that this object commutes with the translation operator in a periodic system is a key  
step in the proof of Bloch's theorem. The negative derivative of this quantity with respect to p is  
equal to the time derivative of p, and the derivative of this quantity with respect to p is equal to  
the time derivative of q, in one system. The eigenvalues of this operator are assumed to change  
slowly under a perturbation in the adiabatic theorem. The time derivative of the action plus this  
quantity is equal to zero according to an equation partly named for Jacobi. In classical  
mechanics, this value can be obtained by taking the Legendre transform of the Lagrangian. For  
10 points, name this mathematical function used to define a namesake type of mechanics, which  
corresponds to the total energy of a system.  
ANSWER:  Hamiltonian 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 TOSSUPS  
5. A version of this task that uses a Gaussian process is called kriging. The sum of the  
coefficients of a construct used to do this task converges to Magata's constant, and that version of  
this task can be done using Neville's algorithm. The unisolvence theorem states that the unique  
solution to one version of this task is found by taking the determinant of the Vandermonde  
matrix. For multivariate data over a regular grid, the nearest-neighbor method of performing this  
task creates a series of piecewise-constant functions. The use of polynomials to perform this task  
can lead to oscillatory behavior at the endpoints, which can in turn be avoided by using splines.  
For 10 points, name this technique which uses some function to create new data points within an  
interval.  
ANSWER:  interpolation   
6. This river led to a namesake bridge war when Governor \"Alfalfa Bill\" Murray ordered a new  
free bridge to be opened. Cartographers debate whether its true stem is at the North Fork or at  
Prairie Dog Town Fork. According to the Adams-Onis Treaty, this river's south bank, not that of  
the Rio Grande, was set as the boundary between the United States and Spain. A collection of  
fallen trees was this river's \"Great Raft,\" which prevented navigation between Alexandria and  
Shreveport. Its namesake \"shootout\" refers to an annual college football game between the  
Longhorns and Sooners. For 10 points, name this colorfully named river that is basically the  
border between Texas and Oklahoma.  
ANSWER:  Red  River of the South [do not accept \"Red River of the North\"]  
7.  This event is in the title of an Alfred Young book about George Robert Twelves Hewes, a  
shoemaker. The financier Robert Murray tried to pay for the damage done in this event.  
Historian George Bancroft helped to spread the urban legend that the signal for it was a phrase  
about how “nothing more to save the country” can be done. This event inspired a similar incident  
in Annapolis directed against the  Peggy Stewart , and it was inflamed by Governor Thomas  
Hutchinson’s hard line stance. It began after people poured out of the Old South Meeting House  
and dressed like Mohawks, possibly after hearing a signal from Samuel Adams. For 10 points,  
name this December 1773 event in which members of the Sons of Liberty dressed like Indians  
and ruined shipments.  
ANSWER:  Boston Tea Party   
8. A variant of GFP sensitive to this value is often fused to VAMP to track synaptic vesicle  
transport. An instrument used to measure this value is governed by the Nikolsky-Eisenman  
equation, and Glassoe and Long suggested correcting this value by an additive factor of 0.4 in  
deuterated media. For compounds like TFMS and certain carboranes, this value is often  
supplanted by a function named for Hammett. Hydrion strips can be used to measure this  
quantity, though it is more accurately measured using an ion-selective glass electrode. More  
often, compounds like bromothymol blue and phenolphthalein are used to estimate this value  
from color changes. For 10 points, name this value which ranges from 0 to 14, which is found by  
taking the negative log base 10 of the hydrogen concentration of an aqueous solution.  
ANSWER:  pH  [or  pOH  until \"hydrogen\" is read; prompt on \"acidity\" or \"basicity\"] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 TOSSUPS  
9. This model can be extended to consider trade in the open economy by pairing it with the  
interest parity relation, leading to the \"impossible trinity;\" that extension is known as the  
Mundell-Fleming model. A component of this model is computed by considering price level,  
income and the liquidity preference function. The impacts of fiscal and monetary policy can be  
determined by considering shifts in the curves in this model. It was developed by John Hicks  
based on the ideas presented in  The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.  For 10  
points, identify this model in which GDP is plotted against interest rate, whose equilibrium  
occurs at the intersection of its namesake curves.  
ANSWER:  IS/LM  model [or  Investment Saving/Liquidity Preference Money Supply  model]  
10. One poster during this election implored the viewer to “Confirm their confidence” in the  
incumbent and showed a hand marking an X on a ballot. The winning party in this election wrote  
the manifesto “Let us face the future together”. During one televised speech in this election, the  
losing candidate stated that his opponents would have to use “some form of Gestapo” in order to  
implement their proposed social reforms, which included full employment and an expanded  
welfare state suggested by the Beveridge report. This election brought Ernest Bevin to the post of  
Foreign Secretary and resulted in the creation of the National Health Service. For 10 points,  
name this election in which the Labour Party under Clement Attlee came to power over Winston  
Churchill’s conservatives.  
ANSWER:  1945 General Election  in the UK [accept UK  1945 Parliamentary Election ; accept  
variations of Clement  Attlee beating  Winston  Churchill  until “Attlee”]  
11. One goddess in this myth system was originally a very promiscuous woman who was cut  
apart by her suitors, and whose body gave birth to a plant. One goddess in this mythology put her  
baby on the ground to determine its father; the baby crawled toward the moon god, who had  
impregnated that goddess using sperm hidden in fruit. In this mythology, one ruler’s brother was  
able to destroy hills with his slingshot, and was turned to ice or trapped in a cave because of his  
cruelty. One ruler of these people was told to build a temple at the site that a golden staff sunk  
into the earth. Another god in this pantheon kept the Milky Way in a jug and used it to create  
rain; that god was Ilyap’a. For 10 points, name this mythological system in which the sun god  
Inti was born of the supreme deity Viracocha, who was in turn the grandfather of the legendary  
first emperor Manco Capac.  
ANSWER:  Inca n myth  
12. In this play, an audience cries out, \"Fantastic!\" after hearing the story of \"something really  
incredible\" that turns out to be a man bending down to tie his shoelace. One character in this play  
tells his audience an \"experimental fable\" in which a dog explains that he didn't swallow his  
trunk because he thought it was an elephant. The opening stage directions to this play note that it  
is set in a \"middle-class English interior\" where \"an English clock strikes 17 English strokes.\"  
Mary says she is Sherlock Holmes in this play after proving that a couple is not actually married.  
In this play, a visit by the Martins to the Smiths is interrupted by the entrance of the Fire Chief.  
For 10 points, name this first play by Eugene Ionesco.  
ANSWER:  The  Bald Soprano  [or  La  Cantatrice Chauve ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 TOSSUPS  
13. Gerald Creasy warned of a communist takeover in what is now this country. This country's  
first leader wore a skull cap with “PG” for “prison graduate” embroidered on it. The National  
Liberation Movement grew out of Asante farmers anger when this country's ruling power used  
the Cocoa Marketing Board to keep cocoa prices one-third the market price. Charles Arden- 
Clarke agreed to cut short this country's first leader's prison sentence after his party won an  
overwhelming majority in new elections. A group of “men of property and standing” led by  
Joseph Danquah formed a political party whose slogan was “Self-government in the shortest  
time possible,” and that party was opposed by another whose slogan was “Self-government  
now.” For 10 points, name this country that was once the Gold Coast, whose first president and  
prime minister was Kwame Nkrumah.  
ANSWER:  Ghana  [or  Gold Coast  until mentioned]  
14. This character gives a speech which instructs his servant, “be thou void of these affections:  
compassion, love, vain hope, and heartless fear.” This character admits to have committed  
fornication, to which he adds, \"but that was in another country; and besides, the wench is dead,”  
and he earlier claims to “kill sick people groaning under walls.” After having another man poison  
some porridge, this character exclaims “how sweet the bells ring, now that the nuns are dead!”  
He shouts “tongue, curse thy fill, and die!” as he dies in a cauldron of boiling water intended for  
Ferneze, who confiscated his property as tribute to the Turks. For 10 points, name this villainous  
title character of Christopher Marlowe's  The Jew of Malta.   
ANSWER:  Barabas  [or the  Jew of Malta  before it is read]  
15. This artist declined a request to paint a woman's eye on a shirt pin. In one of this artist's  
paintings, a bishop points his cane at a tree-covered building. He created a series of \"six-footers\"  
after the success of his canvas  The White Horse.  This painter spent hours reading Luke Howard  
and sketching clouds during his \"skying\" sessions, which led to the realism of the dark nimbus  
over a Neolithic monument in a painting of his. In the most famous artwork of this frequent  
painter of Salisbury Cathedral, a dog stands on the left bank of the Stour River near Willy Lott's  
cottage, toward which a cart is being pulled. For 10 points, name this English landscape artist of  
The Hay Wain.   
ANSWER: John  Constable   
16. A group of nineteen of these creatures called the Zabaniah are responsible for torment, and a  
set of them called the \"Journeyers\" are tasked with seeking out assemblies. A pair of these  
creatures called the Kiramin Katibin are responsible for recording deeds, and the appearance of  
one of these creatures twice in a single year prompted the Farewell Sermon. These creatures are  
made of light, unlike jinns, who are made of smokeless fire. The first appearance of one of these  
creatures is celebrated on the Night of Power, and during that event he repeatedly said \"read!\" to  
a person who replied \"I can't read.\" For 10 points, name these creatures from Islamic mythology,  
including one which first appeared in a cave to Muhammad and dictated the Qu'ran, named  
Jibril.  
ANSWER:  angel s 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 TOSSUPS  
17. John Bassett nearly lost his job for an unflattering article about the intellectual scene of this  
place. H. L. Mencken complained that this place is “almost as sterile, artistically, intellectually,  
culturally, as the Sahara desert\" in “The Sahara of the Bozart.” Mencken was also critical of an  
article by Donald Davidson which defended its religious and agrarian past. Davidson belonged to  
a group of writers from this place who argued for its traditionalism in the collection  I'll Take My  
Stand.  William Faulkner's novels are often classified as a type of “Gothic” fiction named for this  
place. For 10 points, name this region of the United States.  
ANSWER: the American  South  [or obvious equivalents]  
18. In a portion of this composition, an offstage clarinet repeats a C and A-flat ostinato. In  
another of its movements, the pianos play C, D-flat, D, and E scales in the manner of beginning  
music students. This is the most famous composition in the classical repertoire to include a part  
for a glass harmonica. The fourth movement of this composition contains a slow rendition of the  
\"Galop infernal\" from  Orpheus in the Underworld.  A cello solo is accompanied by two pianos in  
the only movement from this collection the composer allowed to be played in his lifetime. In this  
piece's movement \"Fossils,\" the xylophones mimic the composer's own  Danse macabre.  For 10  
points, name this musical menagerie composed by Camille Saint-Saens.  
ANSWER:  The  Carnival of the Animals  [or  Le  Carnaval des Animaux ; or \"The  Cuckoo in the  
Depths of the Woods \", \"Le  Coucou au Fond des Bois \", or \" Aquarium \" until \"fourth  
movement\" is read]  
19. A complex of cubilin and amnionless absorbs this vitamin. A biologically active form of this  
vitamin is abbreviated holoTC. This vitamin is a coenzyme for a reaction that accompanies the  
demethylation of methyltetrahydrofolate. Two important reactions for which it is a coenzyme are  
the conversion of methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA and of homocysteine to methionine.  
Pancreatic proteases free this vitamin from haptocorrin. Autoimmune disorders that attack  
parietal cells can cause its deficiency because it must be bound to intrinsic factor in order to be  
absorbed in the ileum. The activity of this vitamin is due to the cobalt sitting at the center of its  
corrin ring, and its deficiency can lead to megaloblastic or pernicious anemia. For 10 points,  
name this B vitamin.  
ANSWER: vitamin  B12  [or  cobalamin ]  
20. The arrangement of betel leaves used during weddings inspired the layout of this city's  
Palace of Culture. A National Monument located in this city has garlands laid on it every  
Warriors' Day and was originally adjacent to Cenotaph Road. A mosque in this city has towers  
and a main dome resembling closed and open umbrellas and also contains the Heroes  
Mausoleum. The most famous building in this city includes a cross-section resembling the Rub  
el Hizb symbol from Islamic art, and contains a skybridge connecting its two halves. That Cesar  
Pelli-designed building in this city was surpassed by Taipei 101 as the world's tallest building.  
For 10 points, name this Asian capital city that contains the Petronas Towers.  
ANSWER:  Kuala Lumpur  [or  KL ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 TOSSUPS  
21. One poem by this author declares, “Into your virtual city I’ll have passed,\" and is narrated by  
a figure \"in Springtime\" who is noted in another poem for \"the mild pods of his eyelids, his  
pointed skin cap.\" This poet described finding “only the secular powers of the Atlantic  
thundering” in “North.” This poet wrote of a \"poppy bruise\" on a \"left temple\" in a poem  
recalling his mother coughing out \"angry tearless sighs.\" The narrator of one of his poems flees  
from a “a coarse croaking\" he \"had not heard before” in a poem in which a boy gathers  
“jampotfuls” of frogspawn. For 10 points, name this author of “Mid-Term Break” and “Death of  
a Naturalist,” an Irish poet known for translating  Beowulf.   
ANSWER: Seamus  Heaney   
22. Soldiers sympathetic to this group were killed after the Banbury mutiny, after a group of  
officers named Grandees began to reject their ideas. William Walwyn was one of these people,  
whose supporters wore rosemary springs and sea-green ribbons. The manifesto  An Agreement of  
the People , written in part by John Lilburne, laid out this movement's beliefs. These participants  
in the Putney debates were the basis for a more extreme splinter group known as the Diggers. For  
10 points, name these believers in universal male suffrage and radical social equality, who were  
put down by Oliver Cromwell after the English Civil War.  
ANSWER:  Leveller s  
23. Ahmed Zewail observed these structures using lasers in a new field of study he dubbed  
femtochemistry. Oseltamivir, or Tamiflu, is an example of an inhibitor that works by mimicking  
this kind of structure. The Eyring equation was developed out of the theory of this name. This  
structure has a trigonal bipyramidal geometry in the SN2 reaction. This structure's appearance  
depends on the species closest to it in free energy, according to Hammond's postulate. Activated  
complexes are similar to these structures, which are denoted by a double dagger symbol. This  
structure corresponds to the highest potential energy along the reaction coordinate. For 10 points,  
name these fleeting structures produced during chemical reactions.  
ANSWER:  transition state s [accept  activated complex es before mentioned] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 BONUSES  
1. Benjamin Harrison unsuccessfully suggested this man be named the country’s poet laureate.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this “Hoosier” poet, who penned such sentimental fare as \"The Raggedy Man\" and  
\"Little Orphan Annie.\"  
ANSWER: James Whitcomb  Riley   
[10] James Riley reportedly discovered this African-American poet in 1892. This man wrote the  
poem \"We Wear the Mask\" and a line from his poem \"Sympathy\" inspired the title of Maya  
Angelou's autobiography  I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.   
ANSWER: Paul Laurence  Dunbar   
[10] Another Indiana author was former Civil War General Lew Wallace, who is best known for  
writing this book, whose title Jewish prince meets Jesus, is sent to a Roman galley, and defeats  
his nemesis in a chariot race.  
ANSWER:  Ben-Hur : A Tale of the Christ   
2. This man disowned his satire of anti-Chinese racism “Plain Language from Truthful James”  
when it became popular with actual racists. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this author, who wrote from the point of view of a bullet anxious why a man does not  
“answer to my kiss” in “What the Bullet Sang.”  
ANSWER: Bret  Harte   
[10] Harte wrote this short story about the selfless behavior of people like John Oakhurst and  
“the Duchess” who are exiled by a secret committee for immoral behavior.  
ANSWER: “The  Outcasts of Poker Flats ”  
[10] Ah Sin and the narrator take part in this activity in “Plain Language from Truthful James.”  
John Oakhurst is disliked by many in Poker Flats for his proficiency at doing this.  
ANSWER: playing  card s  
3. Answer the following about the history of skulls in painting, for 10 points each.  
[10] This painting by Hans Holbein the Younger depicts a diagonally-distorted skull at the feet  
of the two title professionals.  
ANSWER:  The  Ambassadors  [or  The French  Ambassadors ]  
[10] This subgenre of Dutch still-life paintings often depicted skulls on tables as a symbol of the  
emptiness of life.  
ANSWER:  vanitas  paintings  
[10] This artist and member of Les Vingt depicted two skulls playing tug-of-war over a pickled  
herring with their teeth in one of his skeleton paintings. He also created a large crowd scene in  
which Jesus visits his nation's capital, in which a large red banner reads \"VIVE LE SOCIALE.\"  
ANSWER: James  Ensor 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 BONUSES  
4. Processes of this type generate no entropy, meaning that throughout each step of this kind of  
process, the system is at thermal equilibrium. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these types of thermodynamical processes that have a line integral around one cycle  
of dQ over T equal to zero, according to Clausius's theorem.  
ANSWER:  reversible   
[10] Clausius's theorem is a restatement of this important result, which says that entropy cannot  
decrease in a closed system.  
ANSWER:  second law of thermodynamics   
[10] Callen and Welton proved this important result in non-equilibrium thermodynamics, which  
states that the random reversible deviations from equilibrium result in irreversible heat  
production.  
ANSWER:  fluctuation-dissipation  theorem [or  FDT ; do NOT accept \"fluctuation theorem\"]  
5. The name of this edict was taken from a spell in the ring cycle, and it was expanded by  
Wilhelm Keitel to include anyone who survived for eight days in custody. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this decree which allowed prisoners and dissidents in Nazi-occupied territories to be  
skirted away to a prison or concentration camp without anyone knowing.  
ANSWER:  Nacht Und Nebel  [or  Night and Fog  decree]  
[10] Part of the job of this Nazi propaganda minister was to suppress information about the Nazis  
use of concentration camps and prisons.  
ANSWER: Joseph  Goebbels   
[10] Virginia d’Albert-Lake, an American resistance fighter and victim of the Night and Fog  
Degree, was taken to this all-female prison camp 50 miles north of Berlin. Corrie ten Boom  
described her experiences here in  The Hiding Place .  
ANSWER:  Ravensbruck   
6. This publication has such columns as \"Lexington\" to refer to news about the United States.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this publication which is published from London. Noted for its support of classical  
liberalism, it is noted for its Big Mac Index tracing the price of hamburgers in various countries.  
ANSWER:  The  Economist   
[10] This collaborator with Engels on  The Communist Manifesto  called  The Economist  \"the  
European organ of the aristocracy of finance.\"  
ANSWER: Karl  Marx   
[10] This editor of  The Economist  during almost all of the 1860's wrote such books as  The  
English Constitution  and  Physics and Politics . His namesake dictum states that during a credit  
crunch, lenders should lend freely at a high rate of interest.  
ANSWER: Walter  Bagehot 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 BONUSES  
7. This assembly was the site of Patrick Henry's speech, \"If this be treason, make the most of it\".  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this colonial legislative assembly in Virginia, the first of its kind in America.  
ANSWER:  House of Burgesses  [prompt on partial answer]  
[10] Patrick Henry and Dabney Carr convinced the House of Burgesses to establish one of these  
committees in the prelude to the Revolutionary War. These governments eventually replaced  
colonial legislatures and coordinated action against England.  
ANSWER: committees of  correspondence   
[10] Henry first came to political prominence arguing this 1763 case, which originated from  
George III's veto of a Virginia law that kept the price of tobacco paid to Anglican clergy at two  
pennies.  
ANSWER:  Parson 's Cause  
8. This city is located where the Schuykill [SKOO-kull] River meets the Delaware River. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this city which connects to New Jersey via the Walt Whitman, Betsy Ross, and  
Benjamin Franklin bridges. The Liberty Bell is no longer located in this city’s Independence  
Hall.  
ANSWER:  Philadelphia , Pennsylvania  
[10] This newspaper of Philadelphia, the third-oldest daily newspaper in America, beat out rivals  
by obtaining exclusive publication rights of several Dickens novels. It also first published Poe’s  
The Raven .  
ANSWER: The Philadelphia  Inquirer   
[10] This theater, founded in 1809, is the oldest continuously functioning theater in America. Its  
first production, Sheridan’s  The Rivals , was attended by President Jefferson and the Marquis de  
Lafayette, and in 1976, this theater hosted the first Ford-Carter debate.  
ANSWER:  Walnut Street  Theater  
9. This king dies despite clothing Jehoshaphat in his robes. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this king who is condemned for his murder of Naboth in order to steal a vineyard.  
ANSWER:  Ahab   
[10] Both Ahab and his wife, Jezebel, frequently clashed with this Biblical prophet, the mentor  
of Elisha. This man defeated the prophets of Baal in a dramatic contest on Mount Carmel.  
ANSWER:  Elijah   
[10] Elijah ascends into heaven using this type of supernatural vehicle, as described in 2 Kings  
2:11. This vehicle is also mentioned in the hymn \"Jerusalem.\"  
ANSWER:  chariot of fire  [prompt on partial answer] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 BONUSES  
10. This time period is the focus of the book  And Their Children After Them.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this time period that is also the focus of much of Walker Evans' photographs, as  
collected in the book  Let Us Now Praise Famous Men . Roy Stryker chaired an agency that took  
photos during this time period.  
ANSWER:  Great Depression  [or  Dust Bowl ; prompt on  1930s ]  
[10] This woman took a famous photograph during the Depression called  Migrant Mother .  
ANSWER: Dorothea  Lange   
[10] This other Depression era photographer is best known for his photo entitled  American  
Gothic, Washington, D.C.,  which shows a black cleaning woman holding a broom and mop in  
front of the American flag. He also directed the seminal blaxploitation film  Shaft .  
ANSWER: Gordon  Parks   
11. Answer these questions about the ways in which Vikings governed their territory after  
settling down from raiding, for 10 points each.  
[10] This Icelandic deliberative body, the world's oldest still-extant parliament, was established  
by Norse settlers in the 900s CE to resolve disputes.  
ANSWER: the  Althing   
[10] This region of Britain was cordoned off and ruled by Viking decrees. It was established  
after Guthrum made the treaty of Wedmore with Alfred the Great.  
ANSWER: the  Danelaw  [or  Danelage n]  
[10] These payments, a key part of pre-modern Germanic justice systems, were given to the  
family of a victim by a murderer as compensation.  
ANSWER:  weirgild  [prompt on \" blood money \"]  
12. This opera, inspired by a comic strip written by Rudolf Tesnohlidek, ends with a gamekeeper  
dropping his gun after catching a frog instead of the title character, a reverse of what happens in  
the opening scene. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this racy fairy tale opera, whose lusty title character escapes from being tied up to a  
dog and is eventually shot by the poacher Harasta.  
ANSWER:  The  Cunning Little Vixen  [or  Prihody Lisky Bystrousky ; or  Adventures of Vixen  
Sharp-Ears ]  
[10]  The Cunning Little Vixen  is much lighter than this Czech composer's portrait of jealousy and  
infanticide,  Jenufa.   
ANSWER: Leos  Janacek  [or Leo Eugen  Janacek ]  
[10] The House of Commons is lampooned in this duo's fairy tale opera  Iolanthe,  in which the  
Fairy Queen gives Strephon the ability to pass any bill he proposes as MP. They also produced  
HMS Pinafore.  
ANSWER:  William Schwenk  Gilbert  and Arthur  Sullivan 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 BONUSES  
13. Victor Emmanuel Leclerc, brother-in-law to Napoleon, was sent to tame this colony, but died  
of yellow fever. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this French colony on Hispaniola, the predecessor of a country founded by Jean- 
Jacques Dessalines and Toussaint L’Ouverture.  
ANSWER:  Saint Domingue  (SAN dohm-ONG)  
[10] Jean-Jacques Dessalines became Jacques I of this country after leading the only slave revolt  
which led to the successful creation of a country.  
ANSWER: Republic of  Haiti   
[10] Dessalines declared the independence of Saint Domingue after winning the Battle of  
Vertieres against this general. This man’s father commanded the French army at Yorktown.  
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Donatien de Vimeur, comte de  Rochambeau   
14. This quantity is a measure of stiffness. For 10 points each:  
[10] What ratio of stress to strain along an axis holds for elastic deformations?  
ANSWER:  Young's modulus  [or  tensile modulus ; or  elastic modulus ; or big  ]  E 
[10] This ratio measures the lengthening effect that occurs along the axis transverse to the  
applied load on a material. It's the negative ratio of transverse to axial strain.  
ANSWER:  Poisson 's ratio [or  nu ]  
[10] The stress applied tangentially to the face of material is known by this term and usually  
denoted by the Greek letter tau.  
ANSWER:  shear  stress  
15. This organelle contains some double-headed phospholipids in its membrane, and antibodies  
to this organelle are found in people with primary biliary cirrhosis. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this organelle, whose inner membrane contains the four complexes of the electron  
transport chain and ATP synthase.  
ANSWER:  mitochondria  [or  mitochondrion ]  
[10] This part of the mitochondrion is where the citric acid cycle takes place.  
ANSWER: mitochondrial  matrix   
[10] People with mitochondrial disorders often have this condition, in which more than one  
different mitochondrial genome is present in the same cell.  
ANSWER: mitochondrial  heteroplasmy   
16. Gregory Vlastos's 1954 paper on this argument is considered definitive. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this argument outlined in the  Parmenides,  which states that if the namesake organism  
has a particular form of that organism, then another form would be required to explain that  
relationship, ad infinitum.  
ANSWER:  third man  argument [or  TMA ]  
[10] The third man argument throws a wrench into the theory of forms of this philosopher, who  
also outlined the Euthyphro dilemma in another one of his namesake dialogues.  
ANSWER:  Plato   
[10] Parmenides is accompanied by this student of his in the dialogue. The dialogue begins with  
this person reading from one of his books in front of a crowd. He asked how many grains of  
millet must be dropped to make a sound.  
ANSWER:  Zeno  of Elea 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 BONUSES  
17. Answer these questions about Samuel Beckett's  Waiting for Godot,  for 10 points each.  
[10] This member of the cast is led on a leash by Pozzo. He stays silent except for a single, long  
nonsense monologue delivered while his bowler hat is on.  
ANSWER:  Lucky   
[10] Though Godot never comes, this object suddenly appears close to the end of both acts, right  
after the Boy exits in each instance. In Oscar Wilde's  Salome,  two guards watch this object  
become \"red as blood.\"  
ANSWER: the  moon   
[10] In both acts, Godot's Boy messenger inexplicably addresses Vladimir by this name.  
ANSWER: Mister  Albert   
18. Name these inventors from Greek myth, for 10 points each.  
[10] The young Hermes appeased his brother Apollo by killing a turtle and turning it into this  
stringed instrument.  
ANSWER: the  lyre   
[10] Daedalus murdered this nephew of his in jealousy over his invention of the saw.  
ANSWER:  Perdix  [or  Talos ]  
[10] This prince, who led the Nauplians in the Trojan War, is credited with inventing letters and  
dice. Odysseus framed him for taking a bribe from Priam.  
ANSWER:  Palamedes  of Nauplia  
19. In a novel by this author, a criminal called The Unnamed decides to free his prisoner after  
meeting with Cardinal Borromeo. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 19th-century Italian author of a historical novel about the romance of Renzo and  
Lucia,  The Betrothed .  
ANSWER: Alessandro  Manzoni   
[10] The last part of  The Betrothed  takes place during a plague. In this other novel, a plague  
breaks out during a siege after the title character poisons Il Toro at a feast on the Prince’s orders.  
ANSWER:  The  Dwarf  [or  Dvargen ]  
[10] In this collection by Boccaccio, ten people tell one hundred stories after fleeing from the  
Black Death in Florence.  
ANSWER:  The  Decameron   
20. Identify the following things from number theory, for 10 points each.  
[10] Identify this lemma which states that a polynomial with integer coefficients that factors into  
two polynomials with rational coefficients, factors into two polynomials with integer  
coefficients.  
ANSWER:  Gauss 's lemma  
[10] Euclid's algorithm is used to find this quantity by recursive division.  
ANSWER:  greatest common divisor  [or  gcd ; or  greatest common factor ; or  gcf ; or  highest  
common factor ; or  hcf ]  
[10] Wolstenholme's theorem states that for a prime p greater than three, this operation applied to  
two p minus one for p minus one is congruent to one mod p cubed. This operation is used to  
compute binomial coefficients and is contrasted with the permutation.  
ANSWER: k- combination s [or n  choose  k; or other variables in place of \"k\", such as \"r\"] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 19 BONUSES  
21. A well-known exposed example of this type of intrusive body forms the Palisades that  
overlook the Hudson River. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these intrusive sheets of igneous rock that are concordant with the layering of the  
rocks on which they intrude. They are fed by dikes.  
ANSWER:  sill s  
[10] This mushroom-looking intrusive sheet can be conceived of as an inflated sill. Examples  
include the Devil's Tower in Wyoming.  
ANSWER:  laccolith s  
[10] Sills and laccoliths are formed by the intrusion of this substance into existing rock layers.  
Their namesake \"chamber\" feeds a conduit in volcanos.  
ANSWER:  magma 
