VHSL Districts 2012 
Round 8 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One king with this name suppressed Cade's Rebellion. This name was held by a king who put down a 
rebellion led by Perkin Warbeck. The king who was the son of John of Gaunt had this name. Another king 
with this name was killed by Francois Ravaillac (ra-va-YAK). A French king of this name protected 
Huguenots with the Edict of Nantes (NONT). For 10 points, give this shared first name of the first Tudor 
monarch and his son, the latter of whom ended up having six wives. 
ANSWER:  
Henry 
 [or  
Henry 
 IV of England; or  
Henry 
 VI; or  
Henry 
 VII; or  
Henry 
 VIII; or  
Henry 
 of 
Navarre; or  
Henry 
 IV of France] 
149-12-54-08101 
2. One character in this poem visits the Cave of Spleen, and during a trip in this work, characters play the 
card game Ombre. One character in this work owns the dog Shock and, until she finds “an earthly lover 
lurking at her heart,\" is protected by Ariel. Ariel is one of the many Sylphs that protect the protagonist of 
this poem, including one that is cut in half by a pair of scissors. For 10 points, name this mock epic by 
Alexander Pope in which a strand of Belinda's hair is stolen. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Rape of the Lock 
\" 
002-12-54-08102 
3. This leader gave full funeral rites to the general Tiberius (tye-BEER-ee-us) Sempronius Gracchus after 
Gracchus was killed in an ambush by this man's general Hanno. This man used fog to ambush an army 
under Gaius Flaminius (fluh-MIN-ee-us) in the Battle of Lake Trasimene (TRAZ-ih-mean). A 
crescent-shaped formation helped this man win another battle against the Romans at Cannae (CAN-eye). 
For 10 points, name this leader who crossed the Alps with his elephants during his time fighting in the 
Second Punic War for Carthage. 
ANSWER:  
Hannibal 
 Barca 
023-12-54-08103 
4. One character in this work is driven to murderous rage by a setting of the creation story, and this work’s 
first word,  
hwaet 
 (HWET), has been alternatively translated as “hark” and “so.” In this work, a mortally 
wounded king demands that the treasure he won be laid before him by Wiglaf (WIG-lahf). This poem is the 
subject of J. R. R. Tolkien’s essay “The Monsters and the Critics,” and its protagonist defends Heorot 
(HAY-or-oat), the mead-hall of Hrothgar. For 10 points, name this Anglo-Saxon epic whose title hero slays 
Grendel. 
ANSWER:  
Beowulf 
014-12-54-08104 
5. Dallas Abbott's discovery of the Burckle structure led to the hypothesis that one of these phenomena 
indirectly created the Fernambosy (fer-nam-BOE-see) Chevron on Madagascar. These phenomena are 
responsible for the production of tektites. The moon's formation was probably a result of one of these 
phenomena. An iridium-rich layer of soil gave rise to the hypothesis that one of these caused the K-T 
extinction. For 10 points, name these events, one of which is thought to have caused the extinction of the 
dinosaurs. 
ANSWER: meteorite  
impact event 
s [or  
meteorite impact 
s; accept any answer that indicates that a  
body 
 is 
colliding with the Earth 
; accept meteor, meteoroid, comet, asteroid, bolide and other synonyms in place of 
meteorite or body] 
066-12-54-08105 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  1 of 10 
6. In one play by this man, the mutual killing of Lodowick and Mathias is arranged by the father of their 
beloved Abigall. That play ends with the title merchant boiled in his own cauldron. In another play by this 
creator of Barabas, the title character asks, “Was this the face that launched a thousand ships?” when he 
sees Helen of Troy. That scholar employs the boy Wagner and sells his soul to Mephistopheles 
(meh-fis-TOH-fell-eez). For 10 points, name this Elizabethan playwright of  
The Jew of Malta 
 and  
Doctor 
Faustus. 
ANSWER: Christopher  
Marlowe 
014-12-54-08106 
7. This actress appeared in  
Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby 
 as the title character's mother. 
This actress, who played Joyce on the 2005-2009 seasons of  
The L Word, 
 also plays the psychiatrist Linda 
Freeman on  
Two and a Half Men. 
 This woman's character on another show is assisted by a teenager with 
Down Syndrome named Becky. She voiced the mermaid Neptuna in the animated short \"Small Fry.\" For 10 
points, name this actress who portrays the villainous Cheerios coach Sue Sylvester on  
Glee. 
ANSWER: Jane  
Lynch 
105-12-54-08107 
8. This character's surname is thought to reference a type of membrane that surrounds the head of a 
newborn baby. This character recoils when his old English teacher, Mr. Antolini, puts his hand on his 
forehead, which he interprets as a sexual advance. He carries around a baseball glove belonging to his dead 
brother Allie. Shortly before the novel he appears in ends, he happily watches his sister Phoebe riding a 
carousel. For 10 points, name this phony-hating protagonist of J. D. Salinger's  
The Catcher in the Rye. 
ANSWER:  
Holden 
 Caulfield [or Holden  
Caulfield 
] 
080-12-54-08108 
9. Bands of \"Boomers\" pushed for the settlement of this state's territory, whose population increased 
dramatically in a massive \"Land Rush\" on April 22, 1889. Timothy McVeigh bombed the Alfred P. Murrah 
building in this state's capital. The \"sooners\" seized land in this future state before it was open to 
settlement. Territory that became this state was the destination of the Trail of Tears. For 10 points, name 
this former Indian Territory that is now a panhandled Southern state. 
ANSWER:  
Oklahoma 
080-12-54-08109 
10. A limestone column that extends vertically from Phang Nga (FONG NWAH) Bay in this country is 
known as \"James Bond Island.\" Between that bay and the Andaman Sea lies this country's resort of Phuket 
(FOO-ket). It is bordered to the west by Myanmar, to the north and east by Laos, and to the southeast by 
Cambodia. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian country which is ruled by the Chakri Dynasty of kings 
named Rama, who live in a palace in Bangkok. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Thai 
land [or Ratcha Anachak  
Thai 
] 
130-12-54-08110 
11. In this mythology's creation story, two gods used a jeweled spear to stir the ocean, and dropped land off 
the end of the spear. Afterwards, the god of fire in this system burned his mother to death during birth, 
causing Izanagi (iz-uh-NAH-gee) to journey to Yomi. In another story from this mythology, a dance and a 
mirror were used to lure the sun goddess out of a cave. For 10 points, identify this myth system which 
worships Amaterasu (ah-mah-ter-AH-soo) and Raijin (RYE-jin). 
ANSWER:  
Shinto 
ism [or  
Japan 
ese mythology] 
019-12-54-08111 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  2 of 10 
12. The leader of this event dictated his \"Confessions\" in prison to Thomas R. Gray. This event was led by 
a non-Native American man called \"the Prophet,\" who claimed that a solar eclipse was a sign from god for 
action. In response to this event, a law was passed forbidding masters to teach their slaves to read. It began 
with the murder of the family of Joseph Travis, and resulted in the deaths of sixty whites in Southampton. 
For 10 points, name this 1831 slave rebellion in Virginia. 
ANSWER: Nat  
Turner's Rebellion 
 [or Nathaniel  
Turner's Rebellion 
; or the  
Southampton Insurrection 
before \"Southampton\" is read] 
080-12-54-08112 
13. Robert McFarlane attempted suicide due to his role in this event. This event violated the Boland 
Amendment. It was investigated by the Tower Commission, which implicated Oliver North and Caspar 
Weinberger (WINE-burg-err) but did not conclusively find that the sitting president was aware. This event 
resulted in National Security Advisor John Poindexter being convicted of a felony. For 10 points, name this 
Reagan-era event in which weapons were sold to a hostile Middle Eastern country to fund Nicaraguan 
rebels. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Contra 
 Affair [or  
Contragate 
; or  
Irangate 
] 
080-12-54-08113 
14. Demand is plotted against this quantity on an Engel curve. Demand for inferior goods decreases when 
this quantity increases. The Lorenz curve plots the percentage of this quantity against the percentage of 
households. A consumer's purchasing power is determined by this quantity and the prices of goods. For 10 
points, name this quantity, roughly defined as the amount of money a given consumer makes. 
ANSWER: household  
income 
080-12-54-08114 
15. The Ixtoc I Oil Spill occurred in waters near this country, which is home to the archaeological site of 
Monte Alban. Tiburon Island is found in one body of water mostly enclosed by this country, at whose 
outlet lies Cabo San Lucas. The Bay of Campeche's (com-PAY-chayz) shores are owned by this country, as 
is the majority of a peninsula that contains the state of Quintana Roo. For 10 points, name this country that 
owns most of the Yucatan Peninsula and several Aztec ruins. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
 [or  
United Mexican States 
; or  
Estados Unidos Mexicanos 
] 
040-12-54-08115 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Districts 2012 
Round 8 
Directed Round 
1A.  What volcano in the Cascades is the tallest mountain in Oregon? 
ANSWER: Mount  
Hood 
1B.  What programming paradigm, used in languages like Java and Python, focuses on packaging variables 
with their methods? 
ANSWER:  
object-oriented 
 programming 
2A.  Theodore Roosevelt negotiated the Treaty of Portsmouth that ended a war between Russia and what 
other country in 1905? 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nihon 
-koku; or  
Nippon 
-koku] 
2B.  What artist of  
Daughters of Revolution 
 is better known for a double portrait of his sister and dentist 
called  
American Gothic 
? 
ANSWER: Grant DeVolson  
Wood 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the fifth term in the arithmetic sequence with first 
term -1 and difference 8? 
ANSWER:  
31 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. If the scores on Maggie's first five tests are 78, 82, 90, 93, 
and 84, what score must she receive on her sixth test to have a median test score of 85? 
ANSWER:  
86 
4A.  Holy Roman Emperor Charles VI issued the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713 so that what daughter of his 
could gain the Austrian throne after Charles's death? 
ANSWER:  
Maria Theresa 
 Walburga Amalia Christina [or  
Maria Theresia 
] 
4B.  What Southeast Asian language uses the same word for “green” and “blue” and is written only in the 
Latin alphabet, with nine diacritical markings for stress and tone? 
ANSWER:  
Vietnamese 
 [or  
tieng Viet 
] 
5A.  On what instrument, also played by Thelonious (theh-LOE-nee-uhs) Monk and Herbie Hancock, did 
Duke Ellington compose  
Black and Tan Fantasy 
 and  
Mood Indigo 
? 
ANSWER:  
piano 
forte 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. A right cylinder of radius   and height   is completely filled 
r h 
with water. If the water is then poured into a cylinder of radius 2 , what is the new height of the water level, 
r 
in terms of  ? 
h 
ANSWER:  
h/4 
6A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. A box contains blue and red balls. If there are eight times as 
many blue balls as red balls, and you draw two balls with replacement, what is the probability both are 
blue? Express your answer as a reduced fraction. 
ANSWER:  
64/81 
6B.  What English poet wrote the pastoral elegy “Lycidas” (LIH-sid-us) and the epic  
Paradise Lost 
? 
ANSWER: John  
Milton 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  4 of 10 
7A.  What chart-loving former economist replaced Silvio Berlusconi as Italy's Prime Minister in late 2011? 
ANSWER: Mario  
Monti 
7B.  What astronomer from Egypt created a model for the universe used throughout medieval Europe in his 
Almagest 
? 
ANSWER: Claudius  
Ptolemy 
 (puh-TALL-uh-mee) [or Claudius  
Ptolemaeus 
] 
8A.  What government department, whose name Rick Perry failed to remember, made a multimillion-dollar 
loan to the collapsed \"green\" company Solyndra? 
ANSWER: United States Department of  
Energy 
8B.  Which bishop argued in favor of the Christian God immediately after the sack of Rome in his tome  
City of God, 
 and wrote the classic Christian autobiography  
Confessions 
? 
ANSWER: Saint  
Augustine 
 of Hippo 
9A.  What architect of Tokyo’s Imperial Hotel also built Fallingwater for Edgar Kaufmann near Mill Run, 
Pennsylvania? 
ANSWER: Frank Lloyd  
Wright 
9B.  What astronomical object discovered in 2005 forced the reclassification of Pluto as a dwarf planet? 
ANSWER:  
Eris 
10A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the point of intersection between the line given by the 
equation y = 3x + 2 and the line, perpendicular to the first, passing through the point (3,2). Express both the 
x- and y-coordinates as decimals to the tenths place. 
ANSWER:  
(0.3, 2.9) 
10B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. On the interval theta greater than or equal to 0 degrees and 
less than 360 degrees, find all theta satisfying: sin 2 theta plus sin theta equals zero. 
ANSWER:   degrees,  
{0 120 
 degrees,  
180 
 degrees,  
240 
 degrees}_ [do not accept or prompt on partial 
answer] 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Districts 2012 
Round 8 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One song by this artist asks the listener, “When will you realize [the title city] waits for you?” In 
another, this singer tries to convince Virginia to cast aside her Catholic upbringing. Those songs, “Vienna” 
and “Only the Good Die Young,” are found on his album  
The Stranger. 
 In one of his songs, he has “a 
pretty good crowd for a Saturday.” That song has a chorus that implores him to “sing us a song tonight,” as 
well as a harmonica solo. For 10 points, name this singer of “Piano Man.” 
ANSWER: William Martin \"Billy\"  
Joel 
132-12-54-08117 
2. The iron cathode of a Downs Cell produces this element by reducing its cation (CAT-eye-on). Lamps 
powered by vapors of this element, visible at about 590 nanometers, have replaced mercury vapor lamps. 
This element's cation is pumped outside of a cell while potassium is pumped inside a cell to produce a 
voltage gradient. This element's hydroxide is a highly-corrosive substance called lye. For 10 points, name 
this element that forms table salt with chlorine. 
ANSWER:  
sodium 
 [prompt on  
Na 
] 
080-12-54-08118 
3. The protagonist of this work visits such locations as the Empyrean (ehm-PEER-ee-ehn) and the Primum 
Mobile (PREE-mum MOE-bih-lay). After being pursued by a lion, a leopard, and a she-wolf, the 
protagonist of this work eventually meets the lovers Paolo (POW-loe) and Francesca (fran-CHESS-kuh). 
Earlier, he joins a procession of poets while in Limbo. The protagonist is guided by Beatrice for the last 
portion of his journey instead of Virgil. For 10 points, name this three-part epic consisting of  
Paradiso, 
Purgatorio, 
 and  
Inferno, 
 a work by Dante Alighieri. 
ANSWER:  
The  Divine Comedy 
 [or  
La  Divina Commedia 
; prompt on  
Inferno 
; prompt on  
Purgatorio 
; 
prompt on  
Paradiso 
] 
014-12-54-08119 
4. One attempt to verify this theory is LIGO (LIE-go), which detects a certain type of waves. This theory 
explains the Lense-Thirring (LENS-THEER-ing) effect, which is frame dragging around massive objects. 
Pound and Rebka confirmed this theory’s prediction of gravitational redshift, and it predicts that massive 
objects bend light in a form of lensing. This theory describes gravity as the curvature of space-time. For 10 
points, name this theory that followed Einstein’s theory of special relativity. 
ANSWER: theory of  
general relativity 
 [or  
general 
 theory of  
relativity 
; or  
GR 
; prompt on  
relativity 
] 
149-12-54-08120 
5. In one novel by this author, the protagonist joins the Thanatopsis Club after being convinced to move to 
Gopher Prairie. This author detailed the rise of the \"Minute Men\" to power in the United States in another 
novel. This author of  
It Can't Happen Here 
 wrote a novel whose title character is a real estate salesman 
married to Myra. That character secretly condones the marriage of his son Ted. For 10 points, identify this 
American author of  
Main Street 
 and  
Babbitt. 
ANSWER: Harry Sinclair  
Lewis 
002-12-54-08121 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  6 of 10 
6. When a telescope is limited by this effect, its angular resolution is equal to one point two two times the 
wavelength of light over the aperture. When this effect is caused by a crystal it is known as the Bragg form 
of this effect. This effect’s namesake grating (GREAT-ing) equation states that d times the sin (SIGN) of 
the maximum angle equals m times wavelength. This effect caused interference in Young’s double slit 
experiment. For 10 points, name this apparent bending of a wave as it passes through a small opening. 
ANSWER:  
diffraction 
149-12-54-08122 
7. Witnesses in this case included Detective Mark Fuhrman, who was convicted of perjury as a result, and 
surfer bum Kato Kaelin, who had lived in the defendant’s guest house. The defendant in this case hired a 
“dream team” of lawyers led by Johnnie Cochran. In 2007, the defendant from this case wrote a 
controversial book about the crime entitled  
If I Did It. 
 For 10 points, name this case, which ruled a famous 
football player not guilty of murdering his wife Nicole. 
ANSWER: the  
O.J. 
 Simpson Trial [or the O.J.  
Simpson 
 Trial; or  
People of the State of California v. 
Orenthal Jay  Simpson 
; or obvious equivalents] 
080-12-54-08123 
8. The “heat shock” variety of these entities is a subset of the “chaperone” type of these molecules, which 
are tagged for destruction by the attachment of ubiquitin (yoo-BIH-kwih-tin). Denaturing undoes the 
tertiary and quaternary structure which these molecules gain from folding, and they contain 
carbon-nitrogen linkages called peptide bonds. They are synthesized at the ribosome. For 10 points, name 
these biological molecules composed of amino acids, a key nutrient besides fats and carbohydrates. 
ANSWER:  
protein 
s [prompt on  
polypeptides 
] 
104-12-54-08124 
9. Oliver Wendell Holmes referred to a speech by this man as the \"Intellectual Declaration of 
Independence.\" That speech described the title figure as \"man thinking.\" This author of \"The American 
Scholar\" wrote on the relation of man to God in \"The Over-Soul.\" An essay by this author claims that \"a 
foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds\" and urges the reader to \"trust thyself.\" For 10 points, 
name this transcendentalist author of the essay \"Self-Reliance\" who was a friend of Henry David Thoreau. 
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo  
Emerson 
002-12-54-08125 
10. One member of this phylum was used by Robert T. Paine as the first example of a keystone species. 
That member is  
Pisaster ochraceus 
 (pih-SAHS-turr oh-KRAH-see-us). Another member of this phylum 
creates namesake “barrens” by devouring all the kelp in an area when they are not kept in check by sea 
otters. Members of this phylum use madreporites (mah-dreh-PORE-ites) to filter water for their water 
vascular systems. Members of this phylum exhibits bilateral symmetry as larvae, but pentaradial symmetry 
as adults. For 10 points, name this marine phylum that includes sea cucumbers and starfish. 
ANSWER:  
echinoderm 
s (ee-KIE-noh-derms) [or  
Echinoderm 
ata] 
066-12-54-08126 
11. This composer wrote a tribute to a Danish author in the style of a French suite, while his only concerto 
was the  
Piano Concerto in A Minor 
. This composer of the  
Holberg 
 (\"HOLE\"-berg)  
Suite 
 also wrote 
\"Watchman's Song,\" “Wedding Day at Troldhaugen\" (TROHLD-\"how\"-gehn), and other  
Lyric Pieces 
 for 
piano. One orchestral suite by this man starts with \"Morning Mood.\" For 10 points, name this Norwegian 
who wrote incidental music like “Solveig’s (\"SOLE\"-vayg's) Song” and “In the Hall of the Mountain 
King” for  
Peer Gynt 
 (\"PEAR\" GIHNT). 
ANSWER: Edvard  
Grieg 
 (GREEG) 
140-12-54-08127 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  7 of 10 
12. The number of theoretical plates required for this process is calculated by the Fenske equation. The 
simple form of this process is ineffective for azeotropes (AY-zee-oh-tropes), and the fractional form of this 
process must be employed when the compounds in question have close boiling points. In this process, a 
mixture is separated into its various chemical components based on differences in volatility. For 10 points, 
name this chemical process often employed in petroleum refineries. 
ANSWER:  
distillation 
 [or fractional  
distillation 
] 
080-12-54-08128 
13. In one of this author’s stories, the title character dies when she drinks an antidote prepared by Professor 
Baglioni (bal-YO-knee) and given to her by the student Giovanni. This author of “Rappaccini’s Daughter” 
described a man who observes his wife Faith at a Witches’ Sabbath in his story “Young Goodman 
Brown.” This author also described Chillingworth’s torment of Reverend Dimmesdale, who fathers an 
illegitimate child with Hester Prynne, who wears the title object. For 10 points, name this American 
novelist of  
The Scarlet Letter. 
ANSWER: Nathaniel  
Hawthorne 
014-12-54-08129 
14. Along with addition, one type of this operation is used to find the divergence of a function. Under 
certain conditions, requisite values returned by this operation are defined by Rolle’s theorem and the mean 
value theorem. This operation equals zero at a critical point and performing it on x to the n power returns n 
times x to the n minus one power. This operation gives the slope of the line tangent to a curve. For 10 
points, name this operation from calculus whose reverse is used in integration. 
ANSWER:  
differentiation 
 [or taking a  
derivative 
; or partial  
differentiation 
; or taking a partial  
derivative 
] 
014-12-54-08130 
15. In one of this man's plays, a dog puts another dog on trial for stealing a piece of cheese, and Bdelycleon 
(bi-de-\"LIE\"-clee-on) imprisons his father Philocleon (fill-AH-klee-on) to cure his addiction to the law 
courts. Cloudcuckooland features in another play by this author of  
The Wasps. 
 He also wrote a play in 
which the women of Sparta and Athens withhold sex from their husbands so that they stop the 
Peloponnesian War. For 10 points, name this comic Athenian playwright of  
The Birds 
 and  
Lysistrata 
(LIE-sih-STRAH-tuh). 
ANSWER:  
Aristophanes 
 (air-ih-STAHF-uh-nees) 
080-12-54-08131 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Districts 2012 
Round 8 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This is the color of the Hoescht (HOASH) stain when it binds to DNA. Fehling's A solution is this color. 
One compound named after this color is used to treat heavy metal poisoning by cesium and thallium. Irises 
of this color are caused by Tyndall (TIN-dull) scattering, which also causes smoke to appear this color 
when light is passed through it. Cyanide got its name because it appeared as this color. For 10 points, name 
this color that red litmus paper turns under basic conditions. 
ANSWER:  
blue 
066-12-54-08132 
2. This President signed the Hepburn Act, which let the Interstate Commerce Commission set maximum 
railroad rates, and the Pure Food and Drug Act as part of his Square Deal. This man was shot by John 
Schrank when he was campaigning for the election of 1912, during which he promoted \"New Nationalism\" 
with the Bull Moose Party. This President used his bully pulpit to bust trusts such as Standard Oil. For 10 
points, name this man who became President after the 1901 death of William McKinley. 
ANSWER:  heodore  
T Roosevelt 
 [or  eddy  
T Roosevelt 
; or  
TR 
; prompt on  
Roosevelt 
] 
135-12-54-08133 
3. In the Homeric epics, this deity is called \"cow-eyed.\" Jason lost his sandal while carrying this deity 
across a river. This deity tricked Semele (SEH-muh-lee) into asking to see Zeus in his divine form, which 
incinerated her. This deity decorated the peacock with the eyes of her slain servant Argus. She was jealous 
of her husband's numerous human mistresses, such as Io. For 10 points, name this queen of the gods, the 
wife and sister of Zeus. 
ANSWER:  
Hera 
 [or  
Juno 
] 
080-12-54-08134 
4. One character in this novel attempts to break up a fight between Dick Sterrett and Coode in Mrs. 
Turner’s restaurant. That character plays checkers with the protagonist before taking her away from 
Eatonville. After a hurricane, the protagonist is forced to shoot her third husband when he is driven mad by 
rabies. In this novel, the protagonist marries Logan Killicks, Jody Starks, and Tea Cake. For 10 points, 
name this novel about Janie Crawford written by Zora Neale Hurston. 
ANSWER:  
Their Eyes Were Watching God 
014-12-54-08135 
5. The ABC model of these structures’ genetic development was derived studying the model organism  
Arabidopsis 
 (uh-rab-ih-DAHP-sis). A calyx of sepals is found at the lower end of these objects, whose 
parts generally come in multiples of three in monocots (MAH-noh-cots). Angiosperms 
(AN-gee-oh-sperms) are defined by these objects’ presence, and their filaments, tipped by anthers, 
compose their stamen. Once these object’s pistils are pollinated they can grow into fruit. For 10 points, 
name these radially-symmetric, colorful plant parts with petals. 
ANSWER:  
flower 
s (prompt on  
plant 
s before angiosperms) 
104-12-54-08136 
This is a calculation question. Rugs are sold for $10 per square foot. If James opts to buy a circular rug with 
diameter 2 feet versus a square rug with sides of 2 feet, how much money does he save? Round to the 
nearest dime. 
ANSWER:  
$8.60 
 [or  
860 cents 
] 
104-12-54-08137 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  9 of 10 
What artistic movement was popularized by writers such as Andre Breton (breh-TONE) and paintings such 
as  
The Hallucinogenic Toreador 
 (TORR-ay-uh-dore)? 
ANSWER:  
surrealism 
104-12-54-08137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Districts 2012     Round 8     Page  10 of 10 
