NASAT 2011 
Round 14 
Tossups 
1. This painter taught Gaspard Dughet, who later took his surname. He painted Moses descending with the 
Ten Commandments in the background as a group of revelers dance around a gilded image in his version of 
The Adoration of the Golden Calf 
. This painter of  
The Funeral of Phocion 
 created a series of four paintings 
including  
The Earthly Paradise 
 and  
The Flood 
, representing the four seasons. A figure in a flowing red 
robe stands watching at the top left of his depiction of the Rape of the Sabine Women. In one of his 
paintings, two shepherds point at a tomb inscribed with the title phrase, which is a memento mori. For 10 
points, name this French painter of  
A Dance to the Music of Time 
 and  
Et in Arcadia Ego 
. 
ANSWER: Nicolas  
Poussin 
024-11-30-14102 
2. One section of this work argues technology has turned man into a \"prosthetic god\" unhappy with life. 
Another section describes memory with a metaphor of the different archeological layers of modern Rome 
while discussing a term coined by Romaine Rolland. This work concludes by arguing that the history of 
mankind will be defined by the eternal struggle between \"Eros\" and \"Thanatos,\" building on the author's 
earlier book  
The Future of an Illusion 
. This work argues \"the oceanic feeling\" of being in harmony with 
eternity is the source of religion and cites laws restricting rape as an example of society's repression. For 10 
points, name this book arguing man is unhappy because society represses the instincts of the individual, by 
Sigmund Freud. 
ANSWER:  
Civilization and Its Discontents 
 [or  
Das  Unbehagen in der Kultur 
] 
109-11-30-14103 
3. An enolase specific to these cells is a tumor marker for small cell lung cancer, and the function of these 
cells is subject to Dale’s principle. Specific types of them include Betz cells and Renshaw cells. The 
Fitzhugh-Nagumo model modifies an earlier mathematical model of their operation, and these cells contain 
a large quantity of ribosome-rich Nissl substance. The first model of their operation was derived by 
Hodgkin and Huxley using patch-clamp experiments. These cells, which are often adjacent to 
oligodendrocytes or Schwann cells, have a hillock between their bodies and a long process that contains 
nodes of Ranvier known as the axon. For 10 points, name these cells which communicate using action 
potentials and synapses, the primary cell type of the nervous system. 
ANSWER:  
neuron 
048-11-30-14104 
4. This poet coined the phrase “a sound mind in a sound body.” He discussed the measures taken to ensure 
the safe return of his friend from sea in a poem addressed to Corvinus. He wrote a poem in which a massive 
fish forces the government to set up a council to debate how to properly cook it. Another of his poems is 
largely narrated by Umbricius which compares a rural life favorably to an urban one, while another poem 
warns that even if you lock up your wife, she will simply sleep with the guards as there is no one to guard 
them. This man’s series of sixteen poems in five books coined the phrases “who watches the watchers” 
and “bread and circuses.” For 10 points, name this Roman poet known for his  
Satires. 
ANSWER:  
Juvenal 
 [or Decimus Iunius  
Iuvenalis 
] 
015-11-30-14105 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. The author of this work was lambasted as a \"piddling genius\" in a letter written to General Warren, 
whose capture weakened its effect. Near the opening of this work, it is stated that \"the energy of just and 
mild government …produced benefits so remarkably important.\" On its cover page, this work refers to 
itself as \"Humble.\" Lord Dartmouth tried to present it to its intended recipient without success. This 
document, addressed to \"his most gracious sovereign,\" was drafted by a group led by John Dickinson at the 
Second Continental Congress shortly after the Battle of Lexington and Concord. For 10 points, name this 
last attempt at reconciliation with George III named for a sign of peace. 
ANSWER:  
Olive Branch Petition 
033-11-30-14106 
6. During the three years this composer lived in the United States after World War I, he composed his  
Overture on Hebrew Themes 
. This composer mocked traditional harmonies in his group of five  
Sarcasms 
for piano. His first symphony was inspired by his time as the student of Alexander Tcherepnin, and 
unusually includes a third movement gavotte in homage to late-eighteenth century composers such as 
Joseph Haydn. Another of his works, a suite originally written as a score for an Alexander Faintsimmer 
film, features rhythmic sleigh bells in its fourth movement  
troika 
. This composer of the  
Classical 
Symphony 
 and the  
Lieutenant Kije Suite 
 also wrote a work for children in which an oboe represents the 
duck. For 10 points, name this Soviet composer of  
Peter and the Wolf 
. 
ANSWER: Sergei Sergeyevich  
Prokofiev 
080-11-30-14107 
7. This author wrote about Cash Bentley amusing his neighbors by jumping over their furniture at parties 
before his wife shoots him in his story “O Youth and Beauty!” In one novel a man moves to Remsen Park 
to work at a rocket center with his wife Betsey MacCaffery whom he met at a sandwich shop. That novel 
ends when a character drowns himself because his boat the  
SS Topaze 
 was turned into a gift shop. This 
author wrote a story about a man who attends the Biswangers' party where he meets his former mistress 
Shirley Adams, and he wrote a novel about the title family living in St. Botolphs where Aunt Honora 
presides over her nephews Moses and Coverley. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Neddy 
Merrill's journey home through pools in “The Swimmer” and also wrote  
The Wapshot Chronicle 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Cheever 
052-11-30-14108 
8. A major controversy in this election involved illegal campaign contributions to the winning party coming 
from the Hsi Lai Buddhist Temple in California. One candidate was lampooned as out of touch for calling 
the Los Angeles Dodgers the “Brooklyn Dodgers,” leading to the zinger “I don’t think [he’s] too old to be 
president; it’s the age of his ideas that I question.” The Republican nominee in this election won the Iowa 
caucus, but lost the New Hampshire primary to Pat Buchanan and two other primaries to Steve Forbes. The 
losing candidate’s running mate was former Buffalo Bills quarterback Jack Kemp. For 10 points, name this 
presidential election that saw Bob Dole defeated by Bill Clinton. 
ANSWER: Election of  
1996 
052-11-30-14109 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. One essay by this author concludes that Fascism's \"apotheosis of war\" makes politics aesthetic, while 
communism politicizes art. At his death, this thinker left unfinished a work that considers the culture of the  
flaneur 
, or stroller, and calls Paris the \"capital of the nineteenth century.\" In another essay, he claims that 
Paul Klee’s  
Angelus Novus 
 depicts the “angel of history.” This author of  
The Arcades Project 
 was inspired 
by his own translations of Baudelaire to write “The Task of the Translator.” His best-known essay 
describes how art has lost its “aura” due to the invention of film. For 10 points, name this Jewish 
philosopher of the Frankfurt School who penned “The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical 
Reproduction.” 
ANSWER: Walter  
Benjamin 
079-11-30-14110 
10. The blende of this element is used as a model crystal structure for semiconductors like indium 
phosphide. In one reaction, this element is used with alpha-halo esters to condense ketones or aldehydes to 
form beta-hydroxy-esters. When coupled with copper, this element reacts with alkenes to yield a 
cyclopropane. Those reactions are named for Reformatsky and Simmons-Smith. Found in the ore 
sphalerite, this element and hydrochloric acid reduce ketones to alkanes in the Clemmensen reduction. In 
proteins, this element makes “gag-knuckles,” “treble-clefs,” and other structures known as “fingers.” 
Galvanized steel is coated in this element, and brass is an alloy of copper and this element. For 10 points, 
name this element with number 30 and symbol Zn. 
ANSWER:  
zinc 
 [accept  
Zn 
 before mentioned] 
079-11-30-14111 
11. The end of this event sparked the formation of the rock band Plastic People of the Universe. A speech 
by the leader of this movement condemned the broken promises of Klement Gottwald. This event saw the 
implementation of an “Action Program” which included greater freedom of speech and fewer restrictions 
on travel outside the country. “The Two Thousand Words” Manifesto was written by Ludvik Vaculik in an 
attempt to influence elections during this event. During this event, Alexander Dubcek called for greater 
liberalization of the markets as well as “Socialism with a human face.” For 10 points, name period of 
political liberalization during 1968, centered in the capital of Czechoslovakia. 
ANSWER:  
Prague Spring 
100-11-30-14112 
12. According to one legend from this religion, its founder’s eyelids became the first tea plant after he cut 
them off in anger. A record of the early history of this religion is known as the  
Records of the Transmission 
of the Lamp 
. Important figures in this religion’s history include Mahakasyapa, who wordlessly understood 
a sermon. Its major sects include Obaku, Soto, and Rinzai, and its adherents seek Satori. The founder of 
this religion took a famous journey to the east, where he visited the emperor and spent nine years staring at 
a cave wall. Bodhidharma’s teachings and the “Flower Sermon” are foundational teachings of, for 10 
points, what contemplative sect of Buddhism. 
ANSWER:  
Zen 
 Buddhism 
015-11-30-14113 
13. This province's cities of Newcastle and Chatham were merged in 1995 to form a new city named after 
the Great Miramichi fire of 1825. This province includes an island group at the head of Passamaquoddy 
Bay that includes Grand Manan and Franklin Roosevelt's summer home of Campobello. Point de Bute and 
Halls Hill are found near its border with Nova Scotia, while Canada's first university and the \"reversing 
falls\" are also found on the major river of this province. For 10 points, the Saint John also hosts the capital, 
Fredericton, of what eastern Canadian province? 
ANSWER:  
New Brunswick 
019-11-30-14114 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. The final stanza of one poem by this author remarks on \"Ironic points of light\" that \"flash out wherever 
the Just exchange their messages.\" He wrote about a character who \"held the proper opinions for the time 
of year\" in a poem that ends, \"Had anything been wrong, we certainly would've heard.\" That poem begins, 
\"He was found by the Bureau of Statistics to be one against whom there was no official complaint\" and is 
titled \"The Unknown Citizen.\" This poet noted how \"everything turns away quite leisurely from the 
disaster\" in a poem that begins, \"about suffering they were never wrong, the Old Masters.\" For 10 points, 
name this poet of \"September 1, 1939\" and \"Musee des Beaux Arts\". 
ANSWER: Wystan Hugh  
Auden 
095-11-30-14115 
15. One part of this work depicts an old woman with drooping breasts with her head facing down and is 
entitled  
The Old Courtesan 
. A man struggles under the weight of a woman in a part of this work named  
I 
am Beautiful 
. This work also includes a depiction of a man who ate the bodies of his own children. Two 
sculptures which were originally part of this work are one which depicts Francesca and Paolo engaging in 
the title action and one which depicts a man with his hand underneath his chin. Those sculptures are  
The 
Kiss 
 and  
The Thinker 
. For 10 points, name this massive sculpture by Auguste Rodin which was inspired by 
Dante’s  
Inferno 
. 
ANSWER:  
The  Gates of Hell 
 [or  
La  Porte d’Enfer 
] 
024-11-30-14116 
16. One major leader of this group was renowned for his introduction of firing slits for artillery in the best 
known military formation of this group, a circle of war wagons. Before her capture, Joan of Arc planned to 
lead a crusade to bring this group back into the fold. A Compacta of reconciliation with this group was 
settled after their losses at Grotniki and Lipany. The blind general Jan Zizka led this group, which consisted 
of the radical Taborites and moderate Utraquists. Its formation came with the support of Sophia and her 
husband King Wenceslaus, who were outraged at the death of its namesake as decreed by the Council of 
Constance. For 10 points, identify this group that fought the Holy Roman Emperor to avenge the death of a 
Czech follower of John Wycliffe. 
ANSWER:  
Hussite 
s 
020-11-30-14117 
17. Synapse formation in this organism may be aided by the 38,000 isoforms of the gene encoding for its 
DSCAM cell adhesion molecule. A 1971 paper by Konopka and Benzer is about “clock mutants” of this 
organism. A receptor tyrosine kinase needed for the development of R7 cells in this organism's eye is 
encoded in the gene  
sevenless 
. The P element is a transposon found in this organism, which was studied by 
Alfred Sturtevant and first extensively bred by Charles W. Woodworth. The presence of bar eyes and 
notches in the wings of this organism are linked traits. For 10 points, name this model organism, a type of 
fly used in experiments by Thomas Hunt Morgan. 
ANSWER:  
Drosophila  melanogaster 
 [or  
fruit fly 
; or  
D. melanogaster 
] 
024-11-30-14118 
18. The protagonist of this novel stays with the charcoal burner Marco while staying in the town of 
Abblasoure in disguise, and earlier he fixes a famous fountain that had gone dry in the Valley of 
Loneliness. The main character marries Sandy, who names their daughter after the phrase “hello central,” 
and he is a firearms expert who gets hit in the head with a crowbar by his co-worker Hercules. The main 
character destroys a tower by placing explosive charges in it and erecting a lightning rod. The protagonist 
of this novel is sentenced to be burned at the stake, but is released after he correctly predicts a solar eclipse 
in the year 528, much to the chagrin of Merlin. For 10 points, name this Mark Twain novel in which Hank 
Morgan travels back in time. 
ANSWER:  
A  Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court 
024-11-30-14119 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. In two-dimensional Poseuille flow, the field describing this quantity takes on a parabolic profile. For a 
Newtonian fluid, the shear stress is given by the dynamic viscosity times the gradient in this quantity. 
When the curl of the field representing this quantity is zero, a fluid is called irrotational; that curl is called 
the voriticity. The no-slip condition defines where this quantity is zero, and the product of this quantity 
with the characteristic length and the density, divided by viscosity, yields the Reynolds number. In 
Bernoulli’s equation, the square of this quantity balances the pressure integral. For 10 points, identify this 
quantity which according to Bernoulli’s equation, causes a pressure drop in a fluid when it increases, and 
whose square times the mass gives the kinetic energy of a fluid flow. 
ANSWER: fluid  
velocity 
043-11-30-14120 
20. This figure is the son of the goddess Neith, who gave birth to this figure by spitting, and this figure’s 
name is sometimes wrongly translated as “he who was spat out”. This figure’s head was made of flint. At 
certain times, priests in the Temple of Karnak made wax effigies of this figure, and then mutilated them 
while chanting this figure’s secret name in an effort to weaken him. In one famous depiction of this figure, 
he is being killed with a spear, but he is usually clawed to death when his rival transforms into a cat. This 
figure lived in the Duat, or underworld, where he was resurrected every night and attempted to destroy a 
boat carrying the sun before being killed by Seth or Ra. For 10 points, name this god of evil in Egyptian 
mythology, depicted as a giant snake. 
ANSWER:  
Apophis 
 [or  
Apep 
; or  
Apepi 
] 
021-11-30-14121 
21. This man used a televised speech to refer to the Jewish people as \"this elite people\" following Israel's 
victory in the Six-Day War. His other speeches included the \"Appeal of 18 June\" and a controversial 
declaration of \"vive le Quebec libre.\" This man criticized the static strategy of the Maginot Line in his book 
The Army of the Future 
 and encouraged his countrymen to reject the policies of Philippe Petain, who led 
the collaborationist Vichy regime in this man's country. For 10 points, name this leader of the Free French 
during World War II, a general who was also the first president of the Fifth Republic. 
ANSWER: Charles  
de Gaulle 
081-11-30-14122 
22. In one work by this author, the narrator recounts working as a dishwasher in Hotel X with Boris before 
giving up their jobs to try and find work at the Auberge de Jehan Cottard. Another of his works analyzes 
the middle class Brooker family before spending several chapters discussing coal miners. That work later 
poses five reasons why everyone is not a socialist. He recounts a visit to try and free Georges Kopp from 
prison in non-fiction account of his experience with the Spanish Civil War. He wrote an essay about 
shooting an elephant as a police officer in Burma. For 10 points, name this author of  
Down and Out in 
Paris and London The Road to Wigan Pier 
,  , and  
Homage to Catalonia 
, as well as the novel  
Animal Farm 
. 
ANSWER: George  
Orwell 
 [or Eric Arthur  
Blair 
] 
040-11-30-14123 
23. For one type of object, this quantity is proportional to the cube of the speed of light and one-fourth the 
area of the object. For an ideal gas, this property approaches negative infinity as temperature approaches 
absolute zero, as a consequence of the natural logarithm term in the Sackur-Tetrode equation. In 
information theory, it is proportional to the sum over all possible values of a random variable of the 
quantity p sub i times natural log of p sub i. That relation is derived from a similar equation, stating it is 
proportional to the natural log of the number of microstates of a system, elucidated by Ludwig Boltzmann. 
For 10 points, name this ever-increasing quantity that measures the amount of disorder in a system. 
ANSWER:  
entropy 
 [prompt on  ] 
S 
081-11-30-14124 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 14 
Bonuses 
1. In one poem, he wrote about an animal “burning bright in the forests of the night.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author who included “The Tyger” in his  
Songs of Innocence and Experience 
. 
ANSWER: William  
Blake 
[10] In this poem from  
Songs of Innocence 
, the narrator notes “he is meek, and he is mild; he became a 
little child” after asking the title animal “dost thou know who made thee?” 
ANSWER: “The  
Lamb 
” 
[10] Blake described this friend of Keats and Shelley as working in a “nest of villains.” He wrote about a 
man who sees an angel writing names in a book of gold in “Abou Ben Adhem.” 
ANSWER: James Henry Leigh  
Hunt 
015-11-30-14201 
2. This city was led by Hiero I, and its tyrant Dionysius I made inroads against Carthaginian control, 
making it the most powerful city in Magna Graecia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Sicilian city which hired Archimedes to repulse invasions. 
ANSWER:  
Syracuse 
[10] After leaving Syracuse, this man noted what a beautiful field he had left the Romans and 
Carthaginians to fight in. This king of Epirus is better known for his victories at Heraclea and Asculum. 
ANSWER:  
Pyrrhus 
 of Epirus 
[10] This man seized Syracuse in his war against the second triumvirate. This son of Pompey the Great was 
finally defeated in 35 BC. 
ANSWER:  
Sextus 
 Pompeius Magnus Pius [or  
Sextus 
 Pompey] 
015-11-30-14202 
3. This element forms clusters with sulfur that are important in redox reactions in the mitochondrial 
electron transport chain. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this element that forms complexes with oxygen when contained in hemoglobin and myoglobin. 
ANSWER:  
iron 
 [or  
Fe 
] 
[10] The protein hepcidin is responsible for controlling the flux of iron out of these cells. In the liver, they 
are known as Kupffer cells, and other varieties of this immune cell cell includes microglia. 
ANSWER:  
macrophage 
[10] Recent research suggests that this impediment can be broached by drugs that bind to transferrin 
receptors. This structure is created by astrocyte foot processes and ensures the integrity of the central 
nervous system. 
ANSWER:  
blood brain barrier 
 [or  
BBB 
] 
066-11-30-14203 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Name the following people associated with the presidency of Franklin Roosevelt, for 10 points each. 
[10] FDR's final vice president, this man succeeded to the presidency following Roosevelt's death. He won 
reelection in 1948 in an upset of Republican Thomas Dewey. 
ANSWER: Harry S.  
Truman 
[10] One of FDR's Supreme Court appointments, this Jew became the first appointee to appear at his own 
confirmation hearing. He voted on the  
Brown v. Board 
 decision and argued against judicial activism in his 
dissent to  
Baker v. Carr 
. 
ANSWER: Felix  
Frankfurter 
[10] This man, the first of FDR's vice presidents, ran against him in what would be FDR's second 
reelection. Roosevelt then deprived this man of office by choosing Henry Wallace as his new running mate. 
ANSWER: John Nance  
Garner 
081-11-30-14204 
5. This man’s successor at the Lyceum was Theophrastus. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Greek philosopher who was a student of Plato and tutored Alexander the Great. 
ANSWER:  
Aristotle 
[10] In this work named for his son, Aristotle advocated free will and wrote that people should strike a 
balance between extremes. 
ANSWER:  
Nicomachean Ethics 
[10] In the  
Poetics 
, Aristotle claimed all art could be described by this word because art is an imitation of 
the world of ideas. 
ANSWER:  
mimesis 
 [or  
mimetic 
] 
015-11-30-14205 
6. This king met Francis I at the Field of the Cloth of Gold in 1520. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this monarch who started England’s divorce from the Catholic Church by seeking an annulment 
from his wife Catherine of Aragon. 
ANSWER:  
Henry VIII 
[10] Henry’s Protestant changes were expanded by this son of his, who backed the Book of Common 
Prayer before dying six years into his reign. 
ANSWER:  
Edward VI 
[10] Henry’s Dissolution of the Monasteries, which was engineered by Thomas Cromwell, was one of the 
factors that engendered this 1536 Yorkshire rebellion which was led by Thomas Aske and crushed by the 
Duke of Norfolk. 
ANSWER: the  
Pilgrimage of Grace 
015-11-30-14206 
7. These molecules can be classified according to their denticity. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these molecules which form coordination complexes by binding to metal atoms. 
ANSWER:  
ligand 
s 
[10] Ligands can also be classified according to this characteristic, denoted by the Greek letter eta. 
ANSWER:  
haptic 
ity 
[10] One common ligand is this ring-shaped compound, which can be formed by the Chichibabin synthesis. 
It is structural like benzene with one carbon replaced by a nitrogen. 
ANSWER:  
pyridine 
024-11-30-14207 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This composer popularized the “prepared piano,” in which objects are placed on parts of the piano to 
affect the way it sounds. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this American composer whose four minutes thirty three seconds consists of a period of silence. 
ANSWER: John  
Cage 
[10] Cage was a proponent of this movement, characterized by a return to simple accessible music through 
uncomplicated sounds and melodies. 
ANSWER:  
minimalism 
[10] Often classified as a minimalist is this American who combined his techniques of voice manipulation 
and phasing on his piece  
Different Trains 
. 
ANSWER: Steve  
Reich 
015-11-30-14208 
9. This emperor outlawed the Schmalkaldic League, which he quashed by imprisoning John Frederick, 
Elector of Saxony, and Philip of Hesse after his victory at Muehlberg. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Holy Roman Emperor, the son of Philip the Handsome and Joanna the Mad. 
ANSWER:  
Charles V 
 [or  
Charles I of Spain 
; prompt on \"Charles\"; accept  
Karl 
; or  
Carel 
; or  
Carlos 
 for 
“Charles”] 
[10] Charles V convened this Catholic ecumenical council that sparked the Counter-Reformation. Its 
twenty-five sessions spanned the reigns of Popes Paul III, Julius III, and Pius IV. 
ANSWER: Council of  
Trent 
 [or Concilium  
Tridentinum 
; or Council of  
Trento 
] 
[10] Charles V captured his rival, the French king, at his hunting palace in this 1525 battle during the 
Italian War. After this battle, Charles forced his captured rival to sign the Treaty of Madrid. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Pavia 
026-11-30-14209 
10. This figure is introduced in  
The Savage Mind 
, and his spontaneous actions are characteristic of those 
consistent with mythological thought. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this figure contrasted with the “engineer.” 
ANSWER:  
bricoleur 
 [or  
bricolage 
] 
[10] The concept of bricolage was used by this French structuralist anthropologist. This author of  
Tristes 
Tropiques 
 used the terms “raw” and “cooked” to differentiate nature and culture in  
Mythologies 
. 
ANSWER: Claude  
Levi-Strauss 
[10] This Levi-Strauss work challenged Radcliffe-Brown’s notions of family by arguing that the title 
concept of this work was based more on alliance than descent. 
ANSWER:  
The  Elementary Structures of Kinship 
015-11-30-14210 
11. The legendary founder of this dynasty was a Varangian prince who was invited by the people of 
Novgorod to rule the city. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this dynasty which included Vladimir the Great, who baptized all of Kievan Rus. 
ANSWER:  
Rurik 
id dynasty 
[10] This 16th century leader, the first to be crowned Tsar of All Russia, was descended from the Rurikid 
line. He was forced to pass the throne to his feebleminded son Feodor I after killing his namesake son. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan Grozny 
 [or  
Ivan the Terrible 
; or  
Ivan IV 
; prompt on  
Ivan 
] 
[10] The first Ivan to rule Moscow acquired this byname after collecting the thrones of other cities as 
collateral on defaulted loans. 
ANSWER: \" 
moneybag 
s\" [or  
Kalita 
] 
015-11-30-14211 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. The wings this man designed for his son Icarus failed when they were melted by the sun’s rays. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this inventor of the Labyrinth from Greek mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Daedalus 
[10] Daedalus also constructed a wooden cow that this wife of King Minos could copulate with. 
ANSWER:  
Pasiphae 
[10] In one story, this nephew of Daedalus invented the saw, causing Daedalus to jealously push him off of 
a tower. 
ANSWER:  
Perdix 
 [or  
Talos 
] 
015-11-30-14212 
13. Aldo Leopold wrote about deer herds living in mortal fear of these creatures, much like a mountain 
lives in mortal fear of deer. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these apex predators, canines which share a common ancestry with dogs. 
ANSWER:  
wolves 
[10] These events occur when apex predators are removed or added to an ecosystem and is often 
conceptualized as carnivores indirectly having a positive effect on primary production by eating herbivores. 
The defoliation of vast tracks of land by deer when gray wolves were removed is a salient example. 
ANSWER:  
trophic cascade 
[10] Robert T Paine coined the term trophic cascade, as well as this term, which denotes an organism 
whose removal has an disproportionate effect compared to their biomass. A classic example is the removal 
of sea otters along the California cost which lead to an increase in sea urchin population. 
ANSWER:  
keystone 
 species 
066-11-30-14213 
14. The Putumayo River is the northernmost point of this country. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this South American country, which is the location of the source of the Amazon. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Peru 
[10] Peru shares with Bolivia this enormous plateau, which is the site of Bolivia's city of La Paz as well as 
Lake Titicaca. 
ANSWER: the  
Altiplano 
[10] This second largest city in Peru is known as \"The White City\" because many of its buildings were 
constructed from sillar. It is located in its namesake southern province near the volcano Pichu Pichu. 
ANSWER:  
Arequipa 
088-11-30-14214 
15. Characters in this novel include the protagonist’s friend W.S.B., a French warden named Apollyon, and 
a fellow prisoner named Rockyfeller. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this World War One novel set in the French prison of La Ferte. 
ANSWER:  
The  Enormous Room 
[10]  
The Enormous Room 
 is a novel by this American poet of “anyone lived in a pretty how town” who 
was known for his unorthodox capitalization. 
ANSWER: Edward Estlin  
Cummings 
[10] Cummings wrote a poem about this figure that begins by describing his \"defunct who used to ride a 
watermelon-silver stallion\" and ends by asking \"how do you like your blueeyed boy Mister Death?\" 
ANSWER:  
Buffalo Bill 
015-11-30-14215 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. The title character of one opera by this man repeats his name three times in the aria  
Largo al factotum 
. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Italian composer of  
The Barber of Seville 
 and  
William Tell 
. 
ANSWER: Gioachino  
Rossini 
[10] In this Rossini opera, Angelina is forced to serve as a maid for her stepfather Don Magnifico and her 
two step sisters Clorinda and Tisbe. 
ANSWER:  
La  Cenerentola 
 [or  
Cinderella 
] 
[10] In  
La Cenerentola 
, Angelina falls in love with this prince, who disguises himself as his valet Dandini 
to observe her. 
ANSWER: Prince  
Ramiro 
015-11-30-14216 
17. The title character has a vision of the only person he killed, Margaret Whitehead, rising from a burning 
field. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel whose title character tells his story to the lawyer Thomas Gray and reminisces about 
living on Joseph Travis’s farm while imprisoned in a jail cell. 
ANSWER:  
The  Confessions of Nat Turner 
[10] This American author of  
The Confessions of Nat Turner 
 wrote about the title lover of Nathan Landau 
who survived Nazi concentration camps in  
 Sophie’s Choice  
. 
ANSWER: William  
Styron 
[10]  
The Confessions of Nat Turner 
 was criticized by many black writers for its controversial depiction of 
slavery, but was defended by this African-American author who wrote  
Shadow and Act 
 and  
Invisible Man 
. 
ANSWER: Ralph  
Ellison 
109-11-30-14217 
18. This figure took into his own hands the annual rampage of the fairy Aillen, who burnt everything in 
Tara down. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this figure whose father was killed by GollMacMorna years before he burnt his thumb 
cooking the Salmon of Knowledge. 
ANSWER:  
Fionn mac Cumhaill 
 [pronounced \"Finn McCool\"] 
[10] The stories of Fionn are told in this verse and prose work that ends with the Battle of Cath Gabhra, 
which is survived only by Oisin and Fionn's nephew Cailte. 
ANSWER:  
Fenian Cycle 
 [or  
an Fhiannaíocht 
; or  
Fianna Cycle 
; prompt on  
Fionn Cycle 
; prompt on  
Oisin Cycle 
] 
[10] The  
Fenian Cycle 
 also tells of this warrior with a \"love spot\" that enchanted all women who look at it, 
such as Gráinne, who became this figure's lover even though she was Fionn's bride-to-be. 
ANSWER:  
Diarmuid 
 Ua Duibhne [or  
Diarmid 
 O'Dyna; or  
Diarmid 
 of the Love Spot] 
020-11-30-14218 
19. The cook Christine reveals that the title character scared off her fiancée by forcing him to jump with a 
riding whip. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play ending when the valet Jean hands the title character a razor to commit suicide with 
after they lose the courage to elope when they hear a bell announcing The Count’s return. 
ANSWER:  
 Miss Julie  
[10]  
Miss Julie 
 is a play by this Swedish dramatist who also wrote the novel  
 The Red Room 
. 
ANSWER: August  
Strindberg 
[10] In this Strindberg play, the student Arkenholz explores a mysterious apartment building where he 
encounters a mummy in the closet and has a recurring vision of the milkmaid. 
ANSWER:  
The  Ghost Sonata 
109-11-30-14219 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. In electrostatics, this quantity has a non-zero curl. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity whose curl is proportional to the negative change in magnetic flux. Symbolized E, 
multiplying it by charge gives force in Coulomb’s law. 
ANSWER:  
electric field 
[10] This quantity is defined as the vacuum permittivity multiplied by the electric field plus the polarization 
density. It is useful for calculating the electric fields in dielectric materials. Unlike electric field it has a 
non-zero curl. A similarly named current was added by Maxwell to fix Ampere’s law. 
ANSWER: electric  
displacement field 
 [prompt on \"displacement\"] 
[10] The electric displacement field takes into account these sorts of charges in a material. These sorts of 
states generally occur when the energy of a system is negative, and polarization of a material rearranges 
these charges. 
ANSWER:  
bound 
107-11-30-14220 
21. Entropy is the negative derivative of this type of free energy with respect to temperature at constant 
volume and particle number. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity that is also the difference of internal energy and temperature times entropy. 
ANSWER:  
Helmholtz free energy 
 [prompt on \"free energy\"] 
[10] This function, symbolized Z, is the sum over all states of their corresponding Boltzmann factors. 
ANSWER:  
partition function 
[10] This is a statistical ensemble such that all systems in the ensemble are at the same energy so the 
systems are isolated. 
ANSWER:  
microcanonical 
 ensemble 
081-11-30-14221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 14     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
