National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 10 
Tossups 
1. During one part of his career, this officer worked with the British admiral Thomas Cochrane to create a 
new navy. This man also defeated forces under Mariano de Asorio at the Battle of Maipu. He was 
appointed chief general of the Army of the Andes after he helped organize that group, and shortly afterward 
he led his forces to victory at the Battle of Chacabuco. He was voted Protector of Peru after his army's 
victory obtained that country's freedom. For 10 points, name this Argentine general, who fought to liberate 
Argentina and other parts of South America from Spain. 
ANSWER: Jose de  
San Martin 
032-09-12-10102 
2. One novel by this author sees a Chinese prostitute get beaten up at Alphaville, and begins at Denny’s, 
where a trombone player studying law meets the protagonist Mari. Another novel by this author alternates 
between a fantasy world about a man who reads dreams from unicorn skulls and a science fiction world 
about a calcutec who is able to use his subconscious to \"shuffle\" data. In a 1987 novel by this author, the 
narrator remembers his suicidal friend Kizuki and the girls Midori and Naoko after hearing the title Beatles 
song. For 10 points, name this Japanese author of  
After Dark Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the 
,  
World 
, and  
Norwegian Wood 
. 
ANSWER: Haruki  
Murakami 
034-09-12-10103 
3. Along with Chandler Owen, this man was a leader in the \"Garvey Must Go\" campaign and a founder of  
The Messenger 
 magazine. From 1960 to 1966, he was president of the Negro American Labor Council, 
which fought discrimination in the AFL-CIO. Franklin Roosevelt's Executive Order 8802, which banned 
racial discrimination in the defense industry, was a result of this man's threat to lead a march on 
Washington. This man became the first president of a union in 1925 in part because he was not a Pullman 
employee. For 10 points, name this organizer of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters who was also the 
director of the 1963 March on Washington. 
ANSWER: Asa Philip  
Randolph 
030-09-12-10104 
4. This man's support of the Moderados, and the marriage of his youngest son to the sister of Isabella II, led 
to British accusations that he had violated the Treaty of Utrecht in the Affair of the Spanish Marriages. His 
break with Britain led him to ally closely with his right-wing foreign minister, François Guizot, and lose 
popularity at home. Earlier, this politician spent three years fighting for the Jacobins before following his 
commanding officer, Charles Dumouriez, in defecting to Austria. He came to power as a result of 
repressive laws, aimed to prop up the ministry of the Prince of Polignac. Prior to being satirized as a pear 
by Honore Daumier, he participated in the July Days that overthrew Charles X. For 10 points, name this 
ruler who took the titles of \"citizen king\" and \"king of the French\" in 1830 and ruled until the Revolutions 
of 1848 put Napoleon III on the throne. 
ANSWER:  
Louis-Philippe 
 [do not accept or prompt on partial answer] 
019-09-12-10105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  1 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This element is added to nitrogen and oxygen to form trimix. A dimer of this element has the weakest 
known chemical bond, though that dimer shouldn’t exist according to molecular orbital theory due to two 
electrons in the sigma sub 1s star orbital. The nuclei of one isotope of this element can form Cooper pairs at 
low temperatures in a mechanism described by Lee and Osherroff; this was an early example of 
superfluidity. Because it is produced by the proton-proton chain, it is the second most abundant element in 
the universe. For 10 points, name this element with atomic number two. 
ANSWER:  
helium 
 [or  
He 
] 
001-09-12-10106 
6. One critique of this thinker notes that he is not satisfied with \"abstract thinking,\" and instead wants 
\"sensuous contemplation.\" In that critique, this philosopher's work is used as a springboard to claim that 
\"philosophers have hitherto only interpreted the world in various ways; the point is to change it.\" This 
philosopher's major work breaks down God into various aspects, like a being who can be understood or as 
pure love. In that work, this man claimed that, in an attempt to understand the infinite, \"the conscious 
subject has for its object the infinity of his own nature.\" He thus defined the title religion as the process of 
finding one's self in God. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Essence of Christianity 
, a philosopher 
about whom Karl Marx wrote eleven \"Theses.\" 
ANSWER: Ludwig Andreas von  
Feuerbach 
026-09-12-10107 
7. Jean Barraqué's Opus one is a single movement fifty minute long serial type of this musical work. Franz 
Schubert's pieces of this type include ones identified by the D numbers 958, 959, and 960. Leos Janácek 
memorialized the death of František Pavlík in a composition of this type titled  
1. X. 1905 
. Another of these 
pieces, Chopin's Opus thirty-five, contains a third movement funeral march. Mozart composed eighteen of 
them, including one in C major labeled \"for beginners\" and one in A major whose third movement is titled 
\"Rondo Alla Turca.\" For 10 points, name this type of composition for a solo instrument, which is the form 
of Beethoven's pieces nicknamed  
Appassionata 
 and  
Pathetique 
. 
ANSWER:  
piano sonata 
s [prompt on partial answer] 
004-09-12-10108 
8. The poet Mirabai wrote songs about her love for this god. This god drained the life out of Putana, who 
attempted to poison him with her breast milk. This god tamed and danced on Kaliya, a naga who poisoned 
the Yamuna River, and infuriated Indra by teaching the natives of Vrindavana to take care of their land. 
This god opened his mouth and showed his mother the entire universe after she accused him of stealing 
butter. Kamsa sent several demons to attack this husband of Radha, one of the gopi maidens he seduced. 
For 10 points, name this eighth avatar of Vishnu and charioteer of Arjuna in the  
Bhagavad-Gita 
. 
ANSWER:  
Krishna 
004-09-12-10109 
9. Factions of this party include the 1992 Committee and the Cornerstone Group, and it has a controversial 
association with the Monday Club. This party passed the Sunningdale Agreement and instituted a three day 
work week during coal shortages under Edward Heath. One leader of this party came to power after its 
opposition suffered the Winter of Discontent. One member of this party cited an old woman who refused to 
lease to immigrants in his Rivers of Blood speech. This party of Enoch Powell was led by a politician 
whose unpopular poll tax led to John Major’s ascendance and who invaded the Falklands Island. For 10 
points, name this British political party which opposes Labor. 
ANSWER:  
Conservative 
 Party [or  
Tory 
] 
015-09-12-10110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  2 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. One character in this story astonishes the narrator by tracing his train of thought from a fruiterer to 
street stones, stereotonomy, Epicurus, Orion, and the cobbler Chantilly. This story begins by asserting that 
excellence at chess merely requires calculation, while excellence at whist and checkers requires analysis. 
The central character of this short story observes the peculiarity of testimony by people of diverse 
nationalities, who all describe hearing a gruff voice in a language they do not understand. This locked room 
mystery describes the seemingly impossible deaths of Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter, who is found 
stuffed up a chimney. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe short story in which C. Auguste Dupin 
proves that the title double homicide was committed by an orangutang. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Murders in the Rue Morgue 
\" 
064-09-12-10111 
11. One figure in this work cranes his neck down and to the right while looking beyond his outstretched 
right hand. Another man in this work leans forward while placing both of his hands on his head in agony. 
Though its artist produced a nude version of this work, its figures are depicted in loose robes. Many of the 
bare-footed men in this work have ropes around their necks. Featured in this work are Eustache de 
Saint-Pierre and five other prominent citizens who faced presumptive execution to spare the rest of their 
city. For 10 points, name this work by Auguste Rodin depicting a scene from the Hundred Years' War. 
ANSWER:  
The  Burghers of Calais   
[or  
Les Bourgeois de Calais 
] 
001-09-12-10112 
12. The \"idealized model\" of this effect requires parameters symbolized epsilon and alpha-sub-p. 
Compounds that promote this effect have high values of radiative forcing. An anti- form of this effect can 
cause thermocline inversion. The clathrate gun hypothesis is that compounds that cause this effect currently 
trapped in ice could be released due to it, setting up a positive feedback loop; such a loop could cause a 
runaway of this effect, which may have occurred on Venus. For 10 points, name this effect in which gases 
trap heat in the earth's atmosphere, a major mechanism of global warming. 
ANSWER: the  
greenhouse 
 effect [prompt on global  
warming 
] 
026-09-12-10113 
13. Calvert Watkins wrote about the poetics of this family in  
How to Kill a Dragon 
. An isogloss which 
divides this family into two groups is named for the words for \"one hundred\" in two of its languages. The 
Kurgan hypothesis is one of the theories of the origins of its \"proto\" ancestor. Basque and Finnish are 
among the few European languages which do not belong to this family, which includes Celtic and 
Germanic branches. For 10 points, name this large language family which includes Punjabi and English. 
ANSWER:  
Indo-European 
 language family 
024-09-12-10114 
14. The narrator of this novel remembers the title character sitting on a landing and smelling an araucaria 
plant in this novel’s frame story, in which a landlady’s nephew finds the protagonist’s notes. The title 
character falls asleep at a bar called the Black Eagle after attending a dinner party where he insults a 
portrait of Goethe. In this novel’s final section, the protagonist is appalled to see Wolfgang Mozart use a 
radio and passes through doors labeled “ALL GIRLS ARE YOURS” and “HOW ONE KILLS FOR 
LOVE.” That occurs in a horseshoe shaped building designated “For Madmen Only” where the protagonist 
talks with Pablo and stabs Hermine. For 10 points, name this novel which concludes in the Magic Theatre 
and centers on Harry Haller, a work of Hermann Hesse. 
ANSWER:  
Steppenwolf 
015-09-12-10115 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  3 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. WH Kirchner showed that mutants unable to produce sound could not effectively perform this behavior. 
An organism performing this action release tricosane and pentacosane, and its effects are sometimes 
magnified by an accompanying trembling behavior. Organisms undergoing this behavior travel in a 
figure-eight shape with a return phase. Distances are encoded at a ratio of 75 milliseconds per 100 meters in 
this behavior. Originally elucidated by Karl von Frisch, this behavior communicates directions in terms of 
angle relative to the sun. Used to communicate the position of flowers, for 10 points, name this 
communicative dance performed by bees. 
ANSWER:  
Waggle 
 dance [prompt on  
bee dance 
s or similar answers involving  
bee 
s] 
048-09-12-10116 
16. This character collects an ephah of barley after asking a foreman in a field if she can glean behind a 
group of harvesters. One man who helps this character takes off his sandal as part of finalizing a deal to 
marry her. The first husband of this character is the brother of Kilion, the death of whom causes this 
character's sister-in-law Orpah to leave. This mother of Obed is given six measures of barley from a man 
after she lays down by that man and uncovers his feet. That action follows the instruction of this character's 
mother-in-law Naomi. For 10 points, name this woman of the Old Testament who is redeemed by Boaz. 
ANSWER:  
Ruth 
023-09-12-10117 
17. In  
Howard’s End 
, Helen Schlegel imagines these creatures \"marching across the universe\" during a 
performance of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. Tamoren is the chief of these creatures, who frighten the 
kingdom of Francelia, in a play by John Suckling. A poem about these creatures describes them with the 
lines \"One had a cat's face, / One whisked a tail, / One tramped at a rat's pace, / One crawled like a snail.\" 
In that poem, a dying girl is brought back to health by kissing and sucking the juices from her sister's lips, 
after their cry \"Come buy, come buy\" entices a girl to trade a lock of golden hair for their tantalizing fruit. 
For 10 points, name these mischievous creatures that tempt the sisters Laura and Lizzie by running a 
market in a poem by Christina Rosetti. 
ANSWER:  
goblin 
s 
003-09-12-10118 
18. In Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s  
The Sign of the Four 
, Jonathan Small admits to having escaped from a 
penal colony on this island chain. To its east lies a group containing Henry Lawrence Island known as 
Ritchie’s Archipelago. To its north lies the politically important Coco Islands and its principal town is Port 
Blair. They name a sea that lies to west of the Isthmus of Kra and they lie about 200 miles south of 
Myanmar. For 10 points, name this island group in the Indian Ocean that forms a political territory with the 
nearby Nicobar Islands. 
ANSWER:  
Andaman 
 Islands 
064-09-12-10119 
19. This painting nearly caused its artist to be expelled from a group of artists known as Les Vignt. One 
group in this painting is labeled the \"Noisy Wagner Army,\" and it also includes an advertisement for 
Coleman's Mustard. It depicts atheist reformer Emile Littre holding a drum-major's baton while wearing 
bishop's garments. A banner reading \"Vive la Sociale\" hangs above the title procession in this work, a 
march that includes a host of skeletons and people wearing carnival masks. This massive painting depicts 
the title figure's reception during a modern Palm Sunday procession in the title Belgian city. For 10 points, 
name this painting by James Ensor. 
ANSWER:  
Christ's Entry into Brussels 
 [or  
The  Entry of Christ into Brussels 
; or  
L'Entree de Christ a 
Bruxelles 
; or reasonable translations thereof] 
030-09-12-10120 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  4 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. In quarks, the strength of this interaction is governed by the Cabibbo angle. One mechanism governed 
by this interaction can couple to any non-gluon particle; that neutral current interaction provides the 
mechanism for scattering of neutrinos by ordinary matter. This interaction can change the flavor of quarks - 
in other words, it is responsible for the conversion of quarks into other types of quarks, which is seen in 
beta decay. This force is mediated by the W and Z bosons. For 10 points, name this fundamental force that 
at high energies merges with the electromagnetic force. 
ANSWER: the  
weak 
 force [or  
weak 
 interaction; prompt on  
electroweak 
] 
001-09-12-10121 
21. Kings of this place, including Amalric, accepted Christian refugees from Saladin's conquest of 
Jerusalem for settlement here. In 688, a treaty regarding this place, between Byzantine emperor Justinian II 
and caliph Abd al-Malik, made it a neutral territory. Byzantine rebel Isaac Comnenus was the governor of 
this place and lost it in a battle with Richard the Lion-Hearted, who then sold it to Guy of Lusignan. A 
convention about this place was signed between Britain and its Turkish rulers in 1878, but later, the Attila 
Line separated its Turkish population from the majority group on this island, who had demanded \"enosis\" 
under the leadership of Archbishop Makarios. For 10 points, name this island which is currently divided 
into Turkish and Greek sectors and has not achieved its planned union with mainland Greece. 
ANSWER:  
Cyprus 
 [or  
Kipriakí 
 Dhimokratía; or  
Kibris 
 Cumhuriyeti] 
019-09-12-10122 
22. This character willfully violates a superstition by naming her son after her husband, causing his death in 
the eyes of the public. She is sent to Nonneseter Abbey after Bentein tries to rape her, and she dies treating 
plague victims in at Rein Abbey. This character wears a ceremonial golden wreath representing virginity 
despite being pregnant at her wedding, which is watched with chagrin by Simon Darre. She moves to the 
estate of Husaby with her impulsive and irresponsible husband Erlend. For 10 points, name this heroine of 
the novels  
The Cross The Wife 
,   and  
The Wreath 
, the subject of an eponymous trilogy by Sigrid Undset. 
ANSWER:  
Kristin Lavransdatter 
   [accept either] 
015-09-12-10123 
23. Reactions of nitric oxide are often treated as if they were of this order. This is the highest power of 
volume in the Redlich-Kwong equation of state. Apery's constant is the value of the Riemann zeta function 
at this number. According to the Debye [duh-BYE] model, specific heat is proportional to this power of the 
temperature. The asteroid denoted by this number is Juno. Algebraic equations of this order may be solved 
using the Tartaglia-Cardano formula. Monocots have a multiple of this number of petals. Platyhelminthes is 
the most primitive phylum to contain a mesoderm and, therefore, to possess this many germ layers. For 10 
points, give this number that is also the number of nitrogen dioxide substituents on TNT. 
ANSWER:  
three 
 (accept word forms like  
third 
) 
003-09-12-10124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  5 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 10 
Bonuses 
1. Modern CPUs usually come with L1, L2, and L3 instances of this. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these small stores of data on the CPU that keep copies of recently accessed data so as to speed 
up memory access. 
ANSWER:  
cache 
s 
[10] This term refers to fixed-size blocks of virtual memory used by operating systems. When they are not 
present in main memory, one of their namesake faults occurs. 
ANSWER:  
page 
s (accept word forms like  
paging 
) 
[10] This component of a CPU caches page mappings, thus speeding up virtual memory. 
ANSWER:  
TLB 
 (or  
translation lookaside buffer 
) 
001-09-12-10201 
2. The same demands that were put forth by this movement were met one year after the suppression of the 
Eureka Stockade in Australia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this reform movement that called for universal male suffrage, annual parliaments, and fair 
payment of all workers, to follow up the concessions of the earlier Reform Act of 1832. 
ANSWER:  
Chartism 
 [accept other word forms] 
[10] The \"Plug Plot\" of 1842 was a large-scale strike organized by Chartist leaders and was crushed by this 
general and prime minister, who had earlier won a battle the he credited to \"the playing fields of Eton.\" 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Wellesley 
, 1st Duke of  
Wellington 
 [accept either] 
[10] Chartists in Manchester battled the police in a mass uprising in this year. Also in this year Kossuth was 
installed in Hungary after the resignation of Metternich. 
ANSWER:  
1848 
020-09-12-10202 
3. The scherzo evolved from this dance, which was traditionally used as the third movement for Classical 
string quartets and symphonies. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French dance played in triple time, which was incredibly popular at the English and French 
courts from 1650 to 1750. 
ANSWER:  
minuet 
s 
[10] The third movement of this Italian composer's string quintet in E is one of the most famous classical 
minuets. He also composed the quintet  
Night Music of the Streets of Madrid 
. 
ANSWER: Luigi  
Boccherini 
[10] During the nineteenth century, Boccherini was dismissed as the \"wife\" of this Austrian composer of 
the  
Clock 
 and  
Surprise 
 symphonies. 
ANSWER: Franz Joseph  
Haydn 
004-09-12-10203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  6 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. For 10 points each, answer the following about the Bone Wars. 
[10] The Bone Wars were a series of feuds involving the discovery and categorization of these reptiles, 
which are thought to have gone extinct about 65 million years ago. 
ANSWER:  
dinosaur 
s 
[10] The Bone Wars pitted Edward Drinker Cope against this supporter of Darwinian theory, who proposed 
that birds descended from dinosaurs and described the evolution of horses. 
ANSWER: Othniel Charles  
Marsh 
[10] Marsh accidentally placed the skull of a Camarasaurus on the skeleton of this dinosaur, though Cope 
did not catch the error. He also misidentified a second specimen of this creature as an entirely different 
creature, giving it the name \"Brontosaurus.\" 
ANSWER:  
Apatosaurus 
003-09-12-10204 
5. This admiral lost his arm at the Battle of Santa Cruz de Tenerife. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this admiral, who was killed during the Battle of Trafalgar. 
ANSWER: Lord Horatio  
Nelson 
, First Viscount Nelson, First Duke of Bronté [prompt on  
Bronté 
] 
[10] Nelson won at Trafalgar employing this tactic, which was also called \"Nelson's Touch.\" It involved 
sending a perpendicular column of ships across the front of the opposing line to create an assymetry in 
available guns. 
ANSWER:  
crossing the T 
 [accept  
capping the T 
; or word forms or equivalents] 
[10] Nelson rose to prominence after he disobeyed Sir Hyde Parker's orders to retreat at this battle, which 
destroyed a European capital in a dispute over Napoleonic embargo schemes. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Copenhagen 
026-09-12-10205 
6. This hormone, produced during labor to promote uterine contraction, is a cyclic polypeptide of just nine 
amino acids. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this hormone, which controls maternal instincts and promote social bonding. 
ANSWER:  
oxytocin 
[10] Oxytocin is secreted from the neurohypophysis, a part of this endocrine gland. It is a pea-like 
protrusion at the bottom of the hypothalamus. 
ANSWER:  
pituitary 
 gland [accept  
posterior pituitary 
; prompt on  
hypophysis 
; do not accept or prompt 
on \"anterior pituitary\"] 
[10] This other hormone released from the posterior pituitary helps the body retain water by controlling 
urine concentration. Its deficiency causes diabetes insipidus. 
ANSWER: Arginine  
vasopressin 
 [accept  
argipressin 
; or  
antidiuretic hormone 
; or  
ADH 
] 
034-09-12-10206 
7. When it is performed at any time other than during one specific month, it is known as  
umrah 
. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this ritual pilgrimage to Mecca. 
ANSWER:  
hajj 
[10] During the umrah or the hajj, men wear this garment of two large pieces of unstitched cloth. It shares 
its name with the consecrated state that the pilgrim enters upon donning the garment. 
ANSWER:  
ihram 
[10] The Sa’y, a rite of the hajj, represents Hagar’s quest for water and ends with the drinking of water 
from this well. 
ANSWER: Well of  
Zamzam 
003-09-12-10207 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  7 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This character writes for The International League for the Organization of Progress. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Italian humanist who argues with the Jesuit Leo Naptha. 
ANSWER:  
Settembrini 
[10] Settembrini appears in this Thomas Mann novel that takes place in a Swiss Sanatorium. 
ANSWER:  
The  Magic Mountain   
[or  
Der  Zauberberg 
] 
[10] This central character of The Magic Mountain travels to the Sanatorium to rest and visit his cousin 
Joachim Ziemsse. 
ANSWER:  
Hans Castorp 
 [accept either] 
001-09-12-10208 
9. According to legend, this test got its name because its inventor, William Gosset, was forced to use a 
pseudonym when publishing results due to the fact that he was working for Guinness at the time. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this parametric test that tests the null hypothesis that the sample mean is equal to the population 
mean. Unlike the z-test, it explicitly uses the sample standard deviation in the calculation of the test 
statistic. 
ANSWER: one-sample Student's  -test 
t 
[10] The t-test requires the assumption that the underlying data have this property. According to the central 
limit theorem, the mean of any sufficiently large set of finite variates has this property. 
ANSWER: they are  
normal 
ly distributed [or  
Gauss 
ian; accept word forms like  
normal 
ity] 
[10] The Mann-Whitney test is preferred over the t-test when the assumption of normality does not hold 
because in that case it has a higher value for this property, the probability of correctly rejecting a null 
hypothesis. 
ANSWER: the statistical  
power 
003-09-12-10209 
10. For 10 points each, answer these questions about the work psychologists have done with animals. 
[10] In 1920, this psychologist made a nine month old child became intensely afraid of a white rat in his 
Little Albert experiment. 
ANSWER: John Broadus  
Watson 
[10] Animal rights movements strongly opposed this man, who in the 1970’s placed monkeys in isolation 
chambers dubbed “pits of despair.” 
ANSWER: Harry  
Harlow 
[10] In a B.F. Skinner experiment, these animals were fed food at regular intervals but learned to associate 
whatever random event was occurring with the event of being fed. In a project named for these animals, 
Skinner attempted to train them to guide bombs during World War II. 
ANSWER:  
pigeon 
s 
064-09-12-10210 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  8 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. After conquering this region, Charles Napier sent a message consisting only of the word \"peccavi.\" For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this province of Pakistan where Akbar was born and is the location of Mohenjo-Daro. 
ANSWER:  
Sindh 
[10] This state of India during British control was ruled by a Nizam of the Asaf Jahi Dynasty. Their rule 
was toppled by the new Indian government in Operation Polo. 
ANSWER:  
Hyderabad 
[10] This state of India was the home of many figures in Indian independence such as Ghandi. It was the 
town of Dandi in this state that was the destination of the Salt March. This state was the home of the 
Solanki dynasty and where the Parsi arrived in India. 
ANSWER:  
Gujarat 
001-09-12-10211 
12. Phyllis Schlafly organized opposition to this proposed Constitutional amendment. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Constitutional amendment proposed by Alice Paul, which was passed by both houses of 
Congress in 1972 but was only ratified by thirty-five out of the necessary thirty-eight states before its 1982 
deadline. 
ANSWER:  qual  ights  mendment 
E R A 
[10] Alice Paul originally named the Equal Rights Amendment for this women's rights advocate, who 
cowrote the majority of the Seneca Falls Convention's Declaration of Sentiments along with Elizabeth 
Cady Stanton. This Quaker was also a founder of Swarthmore College, and ensured that it would accept 
both male and female students. 
ANSWER: Lucretia Coffin  
Mott 
[10] Nineteenth century women's rights leaders focused on gaining this right, which was first granted on the 
state level by Wyoming and later throughout the United States by the 19th Amendment. 
ANSWER:  
suffrage 
 [or the right to  
vote 
; or clear-knowledge equivalents] 
004-09-12-10212 
13. This author wrote of a woman who seduces and ruins her cousin’s husband Baron Hector Hulot only to 
leave him for the perfume maker Celestin Crevel. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author of  
Cousin Bette 
 who published the novels  
Sarrasine 
 and  
Le Père Goriot 
 in his  
The 
Human Comedy 
. 
ANSWER: Honoré de  
Balzac 
[10] This recurring Balzac character is an ambitious law student who strikes up relationships with Père 
Goirot’s daughter Delphine. He is one of the few to attend Goriot’s funeral. 
ANSWER: Eugene de  
Rastignac 
 [or  
Eugene 
 de Rastignac] 
[10] This other recurring Balzac character gets the nickname “Trompe-la-Mort” in prison and disguises 
himself as the Jesuit preist Carlos Herrera in  
Lost Illusions 
. In  
Le Père Goriot 
, he has Victorine Taillefer’s 
brother killed in a duel. 
ANSWER:  
Vautrin 
 [or Jacques  
Collin 
] 
015-09-12-10213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  9 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. This philosopher's first work was  
The Structure of Behavior 
 and his  
The Visible and the Invisible 
 was 
published posthumously. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French philosopher who was influenced by Husserl, and who critiqued the beliefs of his 
friend Jean-Paul Sartre in  
Adventures of the Dialectic 
. 
ANSWER: Maurice  
Merleau-Ponty 
[10] A 1945 work of Merelau-Ponty explores the importance of the body in human experience and uses he 
example of an amputee. It is titled for this Husserl-coined concept \"of Perception.\" 
ANSWER:  
phenomenology 
 [or  
The  Phenomenology of Perception 
] 
[10] Merelau-Ponty was also a friend of this author of  
The Ethics of Ambiguity Must We Burn Sade? 
,  , and  
Pyrrhus and Cineas 
, who claimed that woman was the \"other\" in her major work. 
ANSWER: Simone de  
Beauvoir 
001-09-12-10214 
15. Donald Woods refused to accept the official story that this man died from a hunger strike; it was later 
revealed that he had suffered brain damage after interrogation and afterwards was taken on a 12-hour car 
ride instead of to a hospital. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who wrote the essay \"Black Consciousness – A Quest for a True Humanity,\" started 
the Zumele Trust Fund for South African political prisoners, and founded the South African Students 
Organization. 
ANSWER: Stephen Bantu  
Biko 
[10] Biko is considered a martyr for the cause that protested against this form of enforced segregation in 
South Africa. 
ANSWER:  
apartheid 
[10] When the South African government started enforcing a law mandating secondary education be taught 
in Afrikaans, a 1976 protest march was scheduled in this township outside Johannesburg, but it quickly 
devolved into a full-scale riot. 
ANSWER:  
Soweto 
003-09-12-10215 
16. This man painted a group of peasant women invading Hell in his work  
Mad Meg 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Dutch painter whose works include  
The Gloomy Day 
 and  
Hunters in the Snow 
, part of his 
cycle showing the title  
Months 
. He also painted peasants unaware that the title disaster has happened in his  
Landscape with the Fall of Icarus 
. 
ANSWER:  ieter  
P Bruegel the Elder 
 [prompt on Pieter  
Bruegel 
; prompt on  
P. Bruegel 
] 
[10] This Bruegel work shows an army of skeletons attacking and slaughtering a group of peasants. The 
skeletons can be seen transporting a wagon of skulls in the foreground. 
ANSWER:  
The  Triumph of Death 
[10] Another Bruegel painting depicts a \"Battle\" between these two title festivities, represented by revelers 
on the left side, including a fat man riding a wine barrel, and pious church-goers on the right side. 
ANSWER:  
Carnival 
 and  
Lent 
 [accept in either order; or  
The Battle/Fight Between  Carnival and Lent 
] 
052-09-12-10216 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  10 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. One son of this god was a cap-wearing dwarf named Telesphorus. For 10 points each: 
[10]Identify this son of Apollo and father of Panacea, Hygieia, and Iaso, who was made into the 
constellation Ophiuchus after being killed by Zeus's thunderbolt. 
ANSWER:  
Asclepius 
[10] Asclepius and his offspring are deities of this branch of scientific study, and are acknowledged as such 
in the Hippocratic Oath. 
ANSWER:  
medicine 
 [prompt on  
healing 
, even though this part should disambiguate between them well 
enough] 
[10] After Asclepius's death, Apollo was banished by Zeus to spend a year under King Admetus, during 
which he helped the king win over this princess by yoking two animals to a chariot and by challenging 
people to die for him, which this princess gladly offered to do. 
ANSWER:  
Alcestis 
020-09-12-10217 
18. This essay compares the mind of a poet to a platinum catalyst which transmutes emotions and feelings 
into art. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this essay written in 1919, which argues that \"the whole of the literature of Europe from 
Homer...composes a simultaneous order,\" and that a poet's significance is \"the appreciation of his relation 
to the dead poets and artists\" of that order. 
ANSWER: \" 
Tradition and the Individual Talent 
\" 
[10] This author collected \"Tradition and the Individual Talent\" in  
The Sacred Wood 
. His own poetry 
includes \"Gerontion\" and \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock.\" 
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns  
Eliot 
[10] Eliot argued that the only way to express emotion in works of art was through an \"objective 
correlative\" in an essay about this character \"and his problems.\" This character titles a Shakespeare play 
based on a lost play by Thomas Kyd. 
ANSWER:  
Hamlet 
004-09-12-10218 
19. The title character of this play has a relationship with the newspaper editor Scoop Rosenbaum with and 
adopts a Panamanian baby named Judy. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Wendy Wasserstein play about a Vasser educated art historian who teaches at Columbia 
University. 
ANSWER:  
The  Heidi Chronicles 
[10] This later play by Eve Ensler includes the sections “Because He Liked to Look At It,” “The Little 
Coochie Snorcher That Could,” and “I Was Twelve, My Mother Slapped Me.” 
ANSWER:  
The  Vagina Monologues 
[10] In this much earlier feminist novel, the departure of Robert Lebrun from Grand Isle sparks Edna 
Pontellier’s suicide. It was written by Kate Chopin. 
ANSWER:  
The  Awakening 
015-09-12-10219 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  11 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. For 10 points each, identify these major Israeli cities. 
[10] Israel’s second largest city, this city lies next to the ancient site of Jaffa and is known for its large 
number of buildings in the Bauhaus style. Most countries refuse to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital 
and instead send diplomats here. 
ANSWER:  
Tel-Aviv 
-Jaffa [or  
Tel Aviv 
-Yaffo] 
[10] Egypt’s closing of the Straits of Tiran threatened this major port and resort spot at Israel’s southern 
tip. It lies nearly adjacent to the Jordanian port of Aqaba. 
ANSWER:  
Eilat 
[10] Israel's most active port, however, is this educational center, third-largest city, and center of the Bahai 
faith. 
ANSWER:  
Haifa 
064-09-12-10220 
21. This character's name is Philippe and he titles the third volume of  
The Vicomte of Bragelonne 
. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this twin brother of Louis XIV who is dealt the title punishment after Aramis fails to place him 
on the French throne. 
ANSWER: The  
Man in the Iron Mask 
[10] \"The Man in the Iron Mask\" was written by this author who detailed the earlier adventures of Aramis, 
Porthos, and Athos in  
The Three Musketeers 
. 
ANSWER: Alexandre  
Dumas 
, père 
[10] This recurring Dumas character is known as \"The Man from Meung.\" He steals D'Artagnan's letter of 
introduction and kidnaps Constance as an agent for Cardinal Richelieu. 
ANSWER: Comte de  
Rochefort 
015-09-12-10221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 10     Page  12 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
