NASAT 2011 
Round 1 
Tossups 
1. This artist painted a face emerging from pottery on the right as a girl plays a bright yellow harp in  
Music 
I 
, a piece which secured a commission to decorate the palace of Nikolaus Dumba. He controversially 
painted Danae curled up and in ecstasy as gold rains between her legs. He depicted a sneering woman in a 
gilded collar in his first depiction of Judith and Holorfenes, which was modeled by the only woman he 
painted more than once, Adele Bloch-Bauer. He was a leading member of the Vienna Secession and 
frequently incorporated gold leaf into his paintings. For 10 points, name this Austrian painter of  
The 
Beethoven Frieze 
 and  
The Kiss 
. 
ANSWER: Gustav  
Klimt 
015-11-30-01102 
2. A contingent from Schwaz foiled the losers' attack plans in the first of these conflicts, which may have 
been intended as a preliminary assault to another campaign, three years later, that was stopped at Koszeg. 
In the second of these conflicts, Charles of Lorraine led a force to counter one side’s raiding after his army 
retreated to Linz, leaving Count von Starhemburg in charge of a small garrison fighting the forces of Kara 
Mustapha. A discredited legend claims that the croissant was invented to honor Polish king John Sobieski's 
arrival that turned the tide in that second one. For 10 points, name these 1529 and 1683 attacks by Turkish 
forces on an Austrian city. 
ANSWER:  
siege 
s of  
Vienna 
 [prompt on  
Austro-Turkish 
 Wars] 
003-11-30-01103 
3. This character’s creator wrote an essay examining “how [he] was born.” After masturbating to the 
newsreel  
The Gay Woman 
 about wealthy girls on a Florida beach, this character is incited to attack his 
friend Gus in a poolroom and forces him to lick a switch-blade to thwart their plan to rob Blum's Deli. He 
writes a fake ransom note to frame the communist Jan Erlone with his girlfriend Bessie Mears who he 
eventually murders with a brick. The lawyer Boris Max unsuccessfully defends this character against the 
prosecutor Buckley who convicts him for accidentally smothering his boss’s daughter, Mary Dalton with a 
pillow. For 10 points, name this black protagonist of Richard Wright’s  
Native Son 
. 
ANSWER:  
Bigger 
 Thomas [or Bigger  
Thomas 
] 
079-11-30-01104 
4. This man called the brain the \"mystery box\" in a debate with William McDougall. He did an experiment 
with Harvey Carr that explored how \"kinesthetic feedback\" helps organisms acquire a \"chain of response.\" 
Another experiment found the subject over-generalized similar objects such as a seal fur coat, a bearded 
man, and a Santa Claus beard. In addition to testing rats running through a straight alley maze in his 
\"Kerplunk\" experiment he worked with Rosalie Rayner on an experiment that used a loud metal hammer 
blow to condition a baby to be afraid of a white rat. For 10 points, name this Behaviorist psychologist who 
did the Little Albert Experiment. 
ANSWER: John  
Watson 
109-11-30-01105 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This artist was criticized by one subject for showing him with his legs splayed and vest becoming 
untucked. In the last year before her death, she visited several hospitals to take pictures of mental health 
patients dressed up for Halloween. She also took a picture of Eddie Carmel towering over his parents, in  
Jewish Giant at Home. 
 Norman Mailer derided her by saying that putting a camera in her hands was like 
giving a grenade to a small child, which referred to her earlier picture of a small child holding a grenade. 
For 10 points, name this photographer who chronicled socially marginal figures around New York City 
before her suicide. 
ANSWER: Diane  
Arbus 
019-11-30-01106 
6. One notable property of these materials can be described by Miezowicz geometries and store 
Frank-Oseen energy. They can suffer from radial hedgehog defects. A change in their orientation by an 
electric field occurs at the Fredericks transistion. The direction of the averaged orientation in these are 
characterized by directors. Lipid membranes in cells are believed to have the dynamics of these. Two 
classes of these are thermotropics and lyotropics. Their phases include columnar, smectic, and nematic. 
These have orientational, but not long range order. For 10 points, name these fluid materials with 
intermediate organizational properties that are used in TV and computer displays. 
ANSWER:  
liquid crystal 
s [prompt on  
nematic 
 material before lipid membranes] 
001-11-30-01107 
7. The Kapla is the biography of this religion’s founder. Books called the Cheda contain rules for monks in 
this religion. The most important texts in this religion are the Agamas. Vision, knowledge, and conduct are 
the so-called “triple gems” of this religion. Each of this religion’s prophets was smaller than the one that 
came before him; these prophets are called the 24 bridge-makers, or Tirthankars, the most recent of which 
was this religion’s founder, Mahavira. Because of this religion’s principle of ahimsa, some members wear 
masks to avoid accidentally inhaling and killing insects. For 10 points, name this Indian religion committed 
to non-violence. 
ANSWER:  
Jainism 
021-11-30-01108 
8. This man’s Chief of Staff was dubbed the “Abominable No Man” and resigned after it was revealed he 
had taken an overcoat as a gift. Besides Sherman Adams, this man’s advisers included a Cabinet dubbed 
“eight millionaires and a plumber.” One of this man’s Cabinet members, Charles Wilson, said during 
confirmation hearings that “for years I thought what was good for the country was good for General 
Motors.” This man’s Secretary of State initiated Operations PBSUCCESS and Ajax to overthrow 
governments in Guatemala and Iran. For 10 points, name this president whose Secretary of State was John 
Foster Dulles, and who had served during World War II as Supreme Allied Commander in Europe. 
ANSWER: Dwight David  
Eisenhower 
052-11-30-01109 
9. In one work, this thinker outlined six figures, including the “sub-man” and the “adventurer,” to depict 
different ways in which man fails to be ethical. This philosopher wrote a metaphysical novel in which 
Francoise murders Xaviere, the lover of both her and Pierre. In another novel, this author wrote about Anne 
Dubreilh’s affair with Lewis Brogan, a representation of Nelson Algren. The most famous work by this 
author of  
She Came to Stay The Mandarins 
,  , and  
The Ethics of Ambiguity 
 attacks the myth of the “eternal 
feminine” and states that “one is not born, but becomes, a woman.” For 10 points, name this feminist 
philosopher and lover of Jean-Paul Sartre, who wrote  
The Second Sex 
. 
ANSWER: Simone de  
Beauvoir 
080-11-30-01110 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. A beta-blocker overdose can be treated by using an IV infusion of this hormone. A tumor producing 
this hormone causes necrolytic migrating erythema, and such a tumor can be controlled with octreotide. 
DPP-4 degrades a peptide named for this hormone; that peptide is secreted by L-cells in the intestine. This 
hormone acts through a cAMP-mediated mechanism via a G-protein coupled receptor, and leads to the 
activation of glycogen phosphorylase in the liver and the breakdown of glycogen. This hormone is secreted 
by the alpha cells of the Islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. For 10 points, name this hormone that 
opposes insulin by raising blood sugar levels. 
ANSWER:  
glucagon 
048-11-30-01111 
11. The highest waterfall in this political unit is called the Devil's Appendix and is located on the side of 
Cwm (k-OOM) Idwal. An grove of Yew trees at Overton may be the oldest in this place, where a causeway 
known as \"the cob\" connects the town of Holyhead to Anglesey. A Beaker people site at Llethryd Tooth 
Cave is located on this component country's Gower Peninsula, which also includes an unusual rock 
formation called the Hog's Head. People in this region hold spoken word festivals called eisteddfodau, and 
it includes the Wye River valley as well as a large earthern wall separating it from its eastern neighbor, 
Offa's Dyke. For 10 points, identify this component country of the United Kingdom represented on its 
official flag by a dragon. 
ANSWER:  
Wales 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"United Kingdom,\" etc] 
057-11-30-01112 
12. Excluding sample preparation, two of these processes make up the first two phases of MudPit protein 
analysis. This process can be described with an equation that contains terms for eddy-dffusion, longitudinal 
diffusion and mass transfer called the van Deemter equation. A common material used in these setups is 
sepharose. It uses antibodies or other binding molecules in its affinity variant and a charged resin in its ion 
exchange form. The retention time is used to characterize this technique, which typically makes use of a 
column in its gas, liquid or high performance liquid variants. For 10 points, name this chemical technique 
which involves passing a mobile phase through a stationary phase to separate a mixture. 
ANSWER:  
chromatography 
064-11-30-01113 
13. One character in this novel attempts to read from a tract entitled  
The Life, Letters, and Labours of Miss 
Jane Ann Stamper 
. Part of this novel is a statement by the captain of the steamboat  
Bewley Castle 
. One 
character in this work is found dead at the Wheel of Fortune inn. That character, Godfrey Ablewhite, is 
shown to be a hypocrite during Miss Clack's narrative. Franklin Blake and Rachel Verinder are ultimately 
married in this novel. At the end of this work, Mr. Murthwaite observes a religious ceremony at the shrine 
of Somnauth at which the title object is placed in a statue. John Herncastle had previously stolen the title 
object from Seringapatam. For 10 points, name this novel by Wilkie Collins about the theft of the title gem. 
ANSWER:  
The  Moonstone 
030-11-30-01114 
14. Over 90% of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis have antibodies against an enzyme that breaks 
down this compound. In the Cori cycle, this compound is created in the liver from lactate. One enzyme that 
breaks down this compound contains E1, E2, and E3 subunits and uses lipoic acid and thiamine 
pyrophosphate as cofactors. Transamination of this compound produces alanine. A namesake carboxylase 
converts this compound to oxaloacetate in gluconeogenesis, and a namesake dehydrogenase converts it to 
Acetyl CoA for entrance into the Krebs Cycle. For 10 points, name this three-carbon compound, two 
molecules of which are the final products of glycolysis. 
ANSWER:  
pyruvate 
 [or  
pyruvic acid 
] 
003-11-30-01115 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. A Burgundian force under Geoffroy de Thoisy helped fend off a 1444 Mamluk siege of this city. 
Bayezid II paid a bribe to have his brother Cem imprisoned in this city by Pierre d’Aubusson, who had 
earlier defended it from a 1480 Ottoman Siege. After being expelled from Jerusalem in the 14th century, 
the Knights of St. John made this their base, although were forced to find a new home after it was sacked in 
1522 by Suleiman the Magnificent. In ancient times, its harbor was home to a wonder of the ancient world 
which was destroyed in a 226 BCE earthquake. For 10 points, name this Greek island city which was home 
to an ancient “colossus.” 
ANSWER:  
Rhodes 
015-11-30-01116 
16. One character with this profession, Hubert Blorna, has a wife nicknamed \"Trude the Red\" due to her 
leftist sympathies. That character of this profession appears in Heinrich Boll's novel  
The Lost Honor of 
Katharina Blum 
. Another character of this profession is engaged to Dunya in a novel in which he accuses 
the prostitute Sonya Marmeladova of robbing him. That character of this profession is named Pyotr Luzhin 
and appears in  
Crime and Punishment 
. Jean-Baptiste Clamence, a character in this profession, observes a 
woman who jumps into the Seine and fails to save her in Albert Camus'  
The Fall 
. For 10 points, Herr Huld, 
a member of this profession, does a poor job of defending Joseph K. in Franz Kafka's novel  
The Trial 
. 
ANSWER:  
lawyer 
 [accept reasonable equivalents like  
attorney 
 or  
advocate 
] 
030-11-30-01117 
17. An army from this country won the 1513 Battle of Novara, giving this country temporary control of 
Milan. The Field of Rutli is considered the place where this country was founded, and was also the site of a 
1940 rally led by General Henri Guisan, who commanded this country’s forces during World War II. Early 
in its history, this country won the Battle of Mortgarten, preventing its annexation by the Habsburgs. The 
Kapel Wars were fought between Catholics and Protestants in this country, which is home to several 
valleys where Romansch is spoken. This country is currently composed of 26 cantons. For 10 points, name 
this Alpine country in Europe, known for its neutrality. 
ANSWER:  
Switzerland 
021-11-30-01118 
18. Proper recordings of one piece by this composer use a pipe organ to play the \"Saint Gregory the Great\" 
section of his four-movement piece about fictional stained-glass religious scenes,  
Church Windows. 
 He 
used the traditional Christmas carol \"O Come, O Come, Emanuel\" as the basis for the \"Adoration of the 
Magi\" movement of another art-inspired wrok, the  
Three Botticelli Pictures. 
 His material was often 
performed or completed by his wife Elsa, as in his opera  
Lucrezia. 
 His  
andante mosso 
 depiction of the 
Valle Giulia is included in a work that also takes place at the Villa Medici, the Tritone, and the Trevi, and 
this composer of  
Ancient Airs and Dances 
 also used a recorded nightingale call in another work set in the 
same city. For 10 points, name this Italian who composed  
The Fountains of Rome 
 and  
The Pines of Rome. 
ANSWER: Ottorino  
Respighi 
019-11-30-01119 
19. In one story, this woman is killed by Artemis after giving birth to the twins Oenopion and Staphylus. 
This woman is also said to have died in a fight against the Argives, and in another story, this woman's 
apotheosis took place at Drios and the crown given to this woman at her wedding became the constellation 
Corona. This sister of Phaedra became the immortal wife of Dionysus. This woman used a gift from 
Hephaestus, a ball of string, in order to help her ultimately ungrateful lover escape from a labyrinth. For 10 
points, name this woman abandoned on Naxos by Theseus. 
ANSWER:  
Ariadne 
105-11-30-01120 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. One character in this story is described as having two expressions that she uses for all human dealings, 
“forward and reverse,” and she repeatedly comments, “I always said so myself.” Another character gives 
the derisive nicknames “Glycerin” and “Caramel” to Glynese and Carramae, who are the daughters of the 
nosy tenant Mrs. Freeman, and that character legally changed her name from Joy to annoy her mother. At 
the end of this story one character pulls out a pack of pornographic playing cards and of whiskey hidden in 
a hollow Bible and comments his real name is not Manley Pointer after abandoning a thirty-two year old 
woman who has a philosophy Ph.D. in the top loft of a barn. For 10 points, name this story in which Hulga 
Hopewell has her artificial leg stolen from her, written by Flannery O’Connor. 
ANSWER: “ 
Good Country People 
” 
109-11-30-01121 
21. This character instructs a young man to visit her again after a six-day interval, at which time she 
demonstrates a \"black fungus\" covered in cobwebs and spiders. Her home is depicted as airless and 
oppressive because she always keeps the window-blinds closed, and that home is full of stopped clocks. 
Despite the warnings of Matthew, this character accepted a marriage proposal from Compeyson; she later 
intervenes to stop Bently Drummle from marrying her adopted daughter Estella, before dying when a fire 
consumes the wedding dress that she constantly wears. For 10 points, name this woman who is obsessed 
with her long-ago jilting at the altar in Charles Dickens's  
Great Expectations. 
ANSWER: Miss  
Havisham 
019-11-30-01122 
22. One ridge feature on this body is the Slidr Sulci and a unique class of dark features here are guttae. Its 
largest impact crater is Mazomba. This moon has a unique surface feature called “cantaloupe terrain”, 
which resembles a melon skin. Due to tidal heating, this moon is believed to have spent a billion years in a 
liquid state. This moon’s gravity is believed to cause disruption in the orbit of its neighbor, Nereid. Frozen 
nitrogen is emitted by geysers on this moon, the most notable example of ice volcanoes. Because of its 
retrograde orbit, this moon is believed to have been captured from the Kuiper Belt. For 10 points, name this 
largest moon of Neptune. 
ANSWER:  
Triton 
021-11-30-01123 
23. This location that was part of a larger battle was defended by troops under Paddy O’Rorke, who died 
here. Charles Hazlett died at this position after setting up his artillery to help secure it. One man who died 
at this location of a greater battle cried out “Don’t give an inch!” before being shot in its defense. That 
man, Strong Vincent, and G.K. Warren helped organize troops here once it was discovered to be 
undefended. William C. Oates led a portion of the 15th Alabama against this position, which was held by a 
bayonet charge led by the 20th Maine under Joshua Chamberlain. For 10 points, name this location during 
the Battle of Gettsyburg that shares part of its name with a larger hill. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Little Round Top 
 [prompt on Battle of  
Gettysburg 
; prompt on  
Round Top 
] 
088-11-30-01124 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 1 
Bonuses 
1. Name these economic curves, for 10 points each. 
[10] This curve shows that as tax rate increases, tax revenue increases to a point and then begins to slope 
downward. 
ANSWER:  
Laffer 
 curve 
[10] The Gini coefficient measures inequality on this curve, which is used to graph income distribution. 
ANSWER:  
Lorenz 
 curve 
[10] Francis Edgeworth developed this curve which shows the point at which a consumer feels no 
preference toward a number of goods. 
ANSWER:  
indifference 
 curve 
015-11-30-01201 
2. This victor at the Battle of the Kasserine Pass suffered a decisive defeat at the second battle of El 
Alamein. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this “Desert Fox” who commanded Nazi forces in the North African campaign and opposed the 
Normandy landing. 
ANSWER: Erwin  
Rommel 
[10] At El Alamein, Rommel lost to this British commander who was put in charge of all ground forces in 
the Normandy invasion. 
ANSWER: Bernard Law  
Montgomery 
[10] Rommel was trained in the work of this Prussian tactician who advocated total war in his book  
On 
War 
. 
ANSWER: Carl von  
Clausewitz 
015-11-30-01202 
3. This architect designed an urban redevelopment plan for Oklahoma City. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Chinese architect of the East Building of the National Gallery of Art who used his 
trademark glass pyramids in his renovations on the Louvre. 
ANSWER: Ieoh Ming  
Pei 
[10] This other architect designed the Modern Wing of the Art Institute of Chicago and worked with 
Richard Rogers on the Centre Georges Pompidou. 
ANSWER: Renzo  
Piano 
[10] The first female winner of the Pritzker Prize, this British-Iraqi architect is known for powerful curves 
as in her BMW Central Building in Leipzig. 
ANSWER: Zaha  
Hadid 
015-11-30-01203 
4. Answer the following questions about contemporary American essayists, for 10 points each. 
[10] This author included the essay “E Unibus Pluram” in his collection  
A Supposedly Fun Thing I’ll Never 
Do Again 
. He wrote a novel featuring James Incandenza and the Enfield Tennis Academy. 
ANSWER: David Foster  
Wallace 
[10] The founder of McSweeney’s was nominated for a Pulitzer for this autobiographical memoir, which 
discusses Shalini's coma and the responsibility of raising his brother \"Toph\". 
ANSWER:  
 A  Heart-Breaking Work of Staggering Genius 
[10] This author wrote about visiting Zora Neale Hurston’s grave in her collection  
 In Search of Our 
Mother’s Gardens 
, which she published one year after her masterpiece  
 The Color Purple 
. 
ANSWER: Alice  
Walker 
109-11-30-01204 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This man won the daughter of Pelias by harnessing a boar and a lion to his chariot. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man, whom Apollo served as a slave for a year after killing the Cyclopes. 
ANSWER:  
Admetus 
[10] This wife of Admetus gave her own life so her husband could live, but was later rescued from the 
underworld. 
ANSWER:  
Alcestis 
[10] This goddess filled Admetus' bridal chamber with snakes after he failed to make an offering to her. 
This virgin is the goddess of the hunt. 
ANSWER:  
Artemis 
 [or  
Diana 
] 
080-11-30-01205 
6. Evidence of this civilization’s written language was found in the Cascajal Stone. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this civilization whose “elongated man” relics can be found at places like El Manati. Their 
name means rubber people. 
ANSWER:  
Olmec 
s 
[10] The Olmecs are probably best known for creating colossal representations of this body part. 
ANSWER:  
head 
s 
[10] This Olmec archaeological site was found when Matthew Stirling happened upon a giant eye from a 
colossal head looking up at him. Not to be confused with La Venta, it was active from 1200 to 900 BCE. 
ANSWER:  
San Lorenzo 
 Tenochtitlan 
094-11-30-01206 
7. This character learns his colon cancer is lethal while interrogating his son about the suicide of his best 
friend Skipper. For 10 points each; 
[10] Name this character who does not want to leave his plantation to his second son Gooper, but is worried 
that his favorite son Brick has not produced an heir. 
ANSWER:  
Big Daddy 
 Pollitt [prompt on Pollitt] 
[10] Big Daddy is the patriarch of the Pollitt family in this Tennessee Williams play in which the former 
football star Brick won’t sleep with his wife Maggie. 
ANSWER:  
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof 
[10] Brick explains his alcoholism by claiming he is disgusted with this deceitful aspect of the world. Brick 
repeatedly uses this word to refer to the world’s duplicity. 
ANSWER:  
mendacity 
109-11-30-01207 
8. For 10 points each, name these works of Dutch-Jewish philosopher Baruch Spinoza. 
[10] Spinoza used “geometric order” to argue that God is the only substance in the universe in this book, 
his magnum opus. 
ANSWER:  
Ethics 
[10] By analyzing scripture in this tract, Spinoza argues that government should be more secular. It also 
claims that Moses wrote the entire Torah. 
ANSWER:  
Tractatus-Theologico-Politicus 
 [or  
Theological-Political Treatise 
] 
[10] This treatise presents eight properties of the title concept, arguing that we should concern ourselves 
with the “essence of thought,” not “false and fictitious ideas.” 
ANSWER:  
On the  Improvement of the Understanding 
079-11-30-01208 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. This artistic movement spawned writers such as Claude McKay. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this African-American artistic movement of the 1920s and 1930s that was centered in a New 
York neighborhood. 
ANSWER:  
Harlem Renaissance 
[10] Often associated with the Harlem Renaissance, this folk artist painted a train station with signs for 
New York, St. Louis, and Chicago for his series  
The Great Migration 
. 
ANSWER: Jacob  
Lawrence 
[10] This other folk artist was discovered by Louis Caldor when he saw one of her paintings in a drugstore. 
Her painting  
Sugaring Off 
 depicts a winter scene in a small village. 
ANSWER: Anna Mary Robertson  
Moses 
 [or Grandma  
Moses 
] 
100-11-30-01209 
10. The bottoms of these devices contain materials like calcium chloride or magnesium perchlorate. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name these laboratory devices used to dry out samples. 
ANSWER:  
desiccator 
[10] One desiccant is the activated form of this element. Organic chemistry is the study of compounds of 
this element. 
ANSWER:  
carbon 
[10] This compound and its derivatives are the most used liquid method to remove water from natural gas. 
It is also used in the manufacture of unsaturated polyethylene resins and it is the standard solvent in the 
Wolf-Kishner Reduction. 
ANSWER:  
diethylene glycol 
 [or  
DEG 
; prompt on  
glycol 
] 
001-11-30-01210 
11. His daughter Christina assumed the throne after his death at the Battle of Lutzen. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Swedish king known as the Lion of the North for his efforts on the Protestant side of the 
Thirty Years War. 
ANSWER:  
Gustavus Adolphus 
 Magnus [or  
Gustav II Adolf 
] 
[10] Other key figures in the Thirty Years War included this general, whom Ferdinand II betrayed and 
replaced with Count Tilly. 
ANSWER: Albrecht von  
Wallenstein 
[10] The Catholics may have lost the Battle of Breitenfeld because of the hasty cavalry charge of this 
general, who was accused of unnecessary atrocity in the sack of Magdeburg. 
ANSWER: Gottfried Heinrich Graf zu  
Pappenheim 
015-11-30-01211 
12. For a given magnetic flux density B, this is a vector field A such that the curl of A is B. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this item from electrodynamics. 
ANSWER:  
magnetic vector potential 
[10] Given a magnetic vector potential, one can find a new potential for its magnetic field by one these 
transformations. It is accomplished by adding the gradient of a scalar function to A and subtracting the 
partial derivative with respect to time of the function from the scalar potential. 
ANSWER:  
gauge transformation 
[10] This man's gauge makes the curl of the vector potential equal to zero. He also names a law giving the 
force between two point charges. 
ANSWER: Charles-Augustin de  
Coulomb 
001-11-30-01212 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. He hires the architect Philip Bosinney to build his estate and is left by his wife Irene after he rapes her. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this protagonist of  
The Man of Property 
 and two other novels. 
ANSWER:  
Soames 
 Forsyte [or Soames  
Forsyte 
] 
[10] The Forsyte Saga was written by this British author of the play  
The Skin Game 
 and the novel  
A 
Modern Comedy 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Galsworthy 
[10] Galsworthy wrote  
Two Essays on 
 this close friend, who wrote about Marlow’s search for Kurtz in  
Heart of Darkness 
. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Conrad 
015-11-30-01213 
14. This general organized the Army of the Potomac before failing to take Richmond in the Peninsula 
Campaign and facing Lee at Antietam. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this cautious general who ran against Lincoln in the 1864 presidential election. 
ANSWER: George Brinton  
McClellan 
[10] McClellan more successfully ran for the governorship of this home state of his. Other governors of this 
state include Woodrow Wilson and Christine Todd Whitman. 
ANSWER:  
New Jersey 
[10] McClellan’s 1864 running mate was this Ohio senator who sponsored a bill that received a flood of 
support after the assassination of James Garfield. 
ANSWER: George Hunt  
Pendleton 
015-11-30-01214 
15. Goethe strongly defended his first tragedy  
 Il Conte di Carmagnola 
 and his second play was titled  
Adelchi 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this writer who is best known for a novel that includes characters such as characters such as the 
cowardly priest Don Abbondio and a powerful criminal called \"The Unnamed.” 
ANSWER: Alessandro  
Manzoni 
[10] In this aforementioned Manzoni novel the evil Don Rodrigo tries to prevent the silk weaver Renzo 
from marrying his beloved Lucia Mondella. 
ANSWER:  
The  Betrothed 
 [or  
  I Promessi Spossi 
] 
[10] Manzoni wrote his poetry sequence  
The Fifth of May 
 on the death of this political leader. Wars 
surrounding this man make up the backdrop to  
Vanity Fair 
. 
ANSWER: Napoleon  
Bonaparte 
 [prompt on “Napoleon”] 
015-11-30-01215 
16. The HEW, or hen egg white, type of this enzyme is the most commonly studied type, and it works via 
the Phillips mechanism. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this enzyme found in tears and saliva, which uses catalytic glutamate and aspartate residues at 
positions 35 and 52, respectively, to break down bacterial cell walls. 
ANSWER:  
lysozyme 
[10] The Phillips mechanism requires the formation of this resonance-stabilized cation, depicted as either a 
positively-charged carbon single-bonded to an oxygen, or a positively-charged oxygen double-bonded to 
carbon. 
ANSWER:  
oxonium 
 ion 
[10] Lysozyme was discovered by this Scottish biologist who later discovered penicillin. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Fleming 
003-11-30-01216 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. This island group was discovered by the Spanish mediator Tomas de Berlanga, and its Baltra Island was 
home to a US military base during World War II. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this group of islands, the largest of which is Isabela Island and whose largest town, Puerto 
Ayora, is on the island of Santa Cruz. 
ANSWER:  
Galapagos 
 Islands 
[10] The Galapagos are controlled by this South American country, where the peaks of Chimborazo and 
Cotopaxi are found. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Ecuador 
[10] This largest city of Ecuador was the site of an 1822 conference where Bolivar and San Martin planned 
the independence of the rest of South America. 
ANSWER:  
Guayaquil 
015-11-30-01217 
18. Objects found in this region are known as cubewanos. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this region of the solar system stretching past Neptune about 30-55 astronomical units from the 
sun. 
ANSWER: Edgeworth- 
Kuiper 
 belt 
[10] Among the objects believed to have been captured from the Kuiper belt is this moon, the largest and 
only main moon in the solar system with a retrograde orbit. 
ANSWER:  
Triton 
[10] A cubewano lacks this property with Neptune. This astronomical property is defined when the orbital 
periods of two bodies can be expressed in a simple ratio. 
ANSWER: orbital  
resonance 
064-11-30-01218 
19. Many Buddhists take refuge in a collection of things called the “Three Jewels.” For 10 points each: 
[10] The first of the jewels is this highest state of awakening. Siddhartha Gautama became one of these 
figures, and Bodhisattvas forego this state to help others. 
ANSWER:  
Buddha 
[10] The second jewel is this universal truth. This term refers to the teachings of the Buddha, and in 
Hinduism it refers to the laws governing moral life. 
ANSWER:  
dharma 
[10] This last of the jewels is the community, composed of monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen, that 
makes up the Buddhist religion. 
ANSWER:  
sangha 
015-11-30-01219 
20. This man turned to composing when a device he used to strengthen his hands wrecked his career as a 
pianist. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer of  
Carnaval 
 who made Brahms jealous by marrying Clara Wieck. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Schumann 
[10] This third published symphony of Schumann, and the fourth he wrote, was completed after he took a 
trip to its namesake river with Clara. 
ANSWER:  
Rhenish 
 symphony 
[10] This first symphony of Schumann was premiered by Mendelssohn and adapts the final theme from  
Kreisleriana 
. 
ANSWER:  
Spring 
 symphony 
015-11-30-01220 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
21. He fictionalized the battle between the ancients and the moderns in his satire \"The Battle of the Books.\" 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Irish author who described Laputa and Brobdingnag in  
Gulliver’s Travels 
. 
ANSWER: Jonathan  
Swift 
[10] On one of his travels, Gulliver meets this race of horse-like creatures whose nobility contrasts with the 
dirtiness of the Yahoos. 
ANSWER:  
Houyhnhnm 
s 
[10] Swift adopted this pseudonym to predict the demise of the Almanac editor John Partridge. This 
pseudonym was named as the head editor of  
The Tatler 
 by Richard Steele. 
ANSWER: Isaac  
Bickerstaff 
015-11-30-01221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 1     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
