NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 TOSSUPS  
1. In Miledi's oocyte expression assay, mRNA is injected into  Xenopus , and then this quantity is  
measured to determine expression levels. The  Drosophila  Shaker mutation was in a protein that  
regulates this value. Proteins that respond to changes in this quantity have six alpha helices and  
an N-terminal \"ball\" or \"inactivation segment.\" Patch clamps measure this quantity. The  
Goldman equation gives this quantity as a function of concentration of three ions. This quantity  
increases during depolarization, decreases during hyperpolarization, and during the refractory  
period, remains below the resting level of negative 60 millivolts. It determines whether or not  
potassium channels are open. For 10 points, name this quantity which changes during an action  
potential.  
ANSWER:  membrane potential  [or  membrane voltage ; prompt on partial answer]  
2. In this play, a man complains about seeing a maid at a library and tells a woman that girls  
should not learn to read. A character in this play confronts his lover in her dressing room after  
learning that she had been singing and dancing in his absence. This play climaxes at King’s- 
Mead-Fields, where one character is upset to learn the identity of “Delia,” the object of his love  
letters. In this play, Lucius O’Trigger convinces Bob Acres to challenge “Ensign Beverly” to a  
duel over Lydia Languish, unaware that he is actually Jack Absolute. For 10 points, name this  
play that features the mangled speech of Mrs. Malaprop, a work of Richard Sheridan centered on  
some competing suitors.  
ANSWER:  The  Rivals   
3. This president founded Arienespace and replaced his prime minister with Pierre Messmer due  
to opposition to the \"New Society.\" As prime minister, this man negotiated an end to a student  
crisis at the Grenelle conference. This man was sent to conduct secret negotiations with the FLN  
in Algeria in 1961. He convinced de Gaulle to adopt key reforms that diffused the student strikes  
of 1968. He is the namesake of a center for the arts designed by Renzo Piano and Richard  
Rodgers. For 10 points, name this successor to de Gaulle and Prime Minister of France from  
1969 until 1974.  
ANSWER: Georges  Pompidou   
4. In one play by this author, Fred Clarke, a Senator's son, endeavors to convince the title  
character to blame her assault on a black man; the political bent of that play enacts the call he  
made for \"committed literature\" in  What is Literature?  In another play he wrote, the ruler of  
Argos removes a boulder once a year to let ghosts haunt his city. This author, who created the  
sex worker Lizzie in  The Respectful Prostitute,  wrote a play in which Orestes refuses to feel guilt  
for killing Clytemnestra. This writer used a room decorated with Second Empire Furniture as the  
backdrop for Garcin's realization that \"Hell is other people.\" For 10 points, name this author of  
The Flies  and  No Exit.   
ANSWER: Jean-Paul  Sartre 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 TOSSUPS  
5. The Met's collection includes a series of scenes from the life of this man painted by Francesco  
Granacci. Salai was the model for the final painting by Leonardo da Vinci, which depicts this  
man pointing upwards. Caravaggio painted eight total depictions of this man, including one in  
which the only instance of the artist's signature is spelled out in this man's blood. This man was  
frequently painted holding either a staff or a very thin cross and wearing a camel's-hair shirt.  
This boy brings water in  Christ in the House of His Parents,  and he is the leftmost person in da  
Vinci's  Madonna of the Rocks.  For 10 points, name this saint who usually shows up in Western  
art with his mother Elizabeth or as a decapitated head presented by Salome.  
ANSWER:  John the Baptist  [prompt on  John ]  
6. A doorbell in this film appears to set off a distortion-producing device inside a different house.  
Early on, the camera tilts down signs reading \"HURT,\" \"AGONY,\" \"PAIN,\" \"LOVE-IT,\" as the  
protagonist jogs through woods. Another character poses as a disfigured body to divert an  
ambulance to an airport. This film's villain is shot after a tense sequence seen from the  
perspective of his night vision goggles. This film alternates overhead shots of a screaming  
woman with low angle shots of a man holding a rope and bucket. The male star of this Jonathan  
Demme film ate a liver with fava beans and a nice chianti. For 10 points, name this 1991 film in  
which FBI agent Clarice Starling hunts serial killer Buffalo Bill with the help of Hannibal Lecter.  
ANSWER:  The  Silence of the Lambs   
7. William Cullen Bryant died after a fall following a speech in which he dedicated a bust of this  
man in Central Park. This man started a boys school and published a newspaper called  
Apostleship of the People  while in exile in London. The anarchist Mikhail Bakunin founded the  
International Brotherhood in part to resist the political movements inspired by this man, who  
published the journal  Thought and Action . He rose to prominence by publishing an open letter to  
Charles Albert calling for a constitutional government for Piedmont, and later in his career he  
sent Felice Orsini to start an unsuccessful revolt in Carrara. Among this man's proposals were to  
create a “Holy Alliance of the Peoples” to combat monarchies and create a United States of  
Europe. For 10 points, name this revolutionary Italian leader of the Risorgimento who founded  
Young Italy.  
ANSWER: Guiseppe  Mazzini   
8. A microscopic mechanism that causes this phenomenon is called microvoid coalescence, and  
in one regime, the strain energy release rate caused by this process is equal to the J integral. The  
\"conchoidal\" type of this phenomenon begins at a swelling called the \"bulb of percussion\".  
Considering the surface-energy increase caused by this process leads to a derivation of Griffiths’  
criterion for it. This phenomenon occurs in three different modes: opening, in-plane, and out-of- 
plane. This phenomenon is marked by an X on the end of a stress-strain curve, and it happens  
more easily in brittle materials than ductile materials. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in  
which an applied stress causes a material to break in two.  
ANSWER:  fracture  [or  crack ing]  
9. This man's chief herdsman, Doeg, was responsible for murdering many priests. While  
relieving himself in a cave, he has the very end of his robe cut off by one of his enemies. The  
question \"is this man among the prophets?\" refers to incidents in which he joined ecstatic  
prophets playing music. This person becomes irritated at a chant about him only slaying 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 TOSSUPS  
\"thousands\" as opposed to his future son-in-law slaying \"tens of thousands.\" He married his  
daughter Michal off to a man who supplied him with two hundred Philistine foreskins. This man,  
the father of Jonathan, is calmed by a shepherd boy's harp playing. That youth killed Goliath in  
service of this ruler, but this man eventually tried to kill David. For 10 points, name this ruler  
from First Samuel, the first king of Israel.  
ANSWER:  Saul  
10.  In this city, William Barbour sympathized with the demands of 400 rabbis who were  
organized by Hillel Kook. A 1997 event was held in Philadelphia to address the sexism of  
another event held in this city, which ran parallel with the National Day of Absence. Graphic  
novel author John Lewis was the youngest speaker at another event held in this city, which was  
dominated by the \"Big Six.\" Despite concerns about his homosexuality, Bayard Rustin was  
appointed deputy organizer of that event in this city. Louis Farrakhan called for the Million Man  
March in this city, in homage to an earlier event here, \"for Jobs and Freedom,\" which was  
organized by Asa Philip Randolph. For 10 points, name this city, home to a 300,000-strong 1963  
march attended by Martin Luther King Jr.  
ANSWER:  Washington, D.C.  [or  D.C ; or  District of Columbia ]  
11. Jeffrey Eugenides repeatedly denied that this other author was the basis for the manic- 
depressive Leonard Bankhead in Eugenides' book about Brown University grads,  The Marriage  
Plot.  He called himself a \"semi-agoraphobe\" in an essay about his time aboard the  Zenith,  a  
grating cruise ship. Michael Pietsch helped edit and finish a novel by this author set largely in a  
Peoria, Illinois IRS office. This author of \"A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again\" also  
wrote about an addictive film produced by James Incandenza, whose son Hal attends the Enfield  
Tennis Academy. For 10 points, name this frequently bandana-clad author who left  The Pale  
King  unfinished at the time of his suicide and wrote  Infinite Jest.  
ANSWER:  David Foster  Wallace   
12. This country's coastal Sawa people host the aquatic Ngondo festival. This country has mined  
bauxite in the city of Edéa, near a namesake geologic \"line\" of volcanoes which runs northeast- 
to-southwest into the ocean and includes the island of Bioko. This country's namesake \"ghost  
shrimp\" live in the Wouri river estuary. This country, which, like Togo, was transferred from  
German to French control after World War I, trades through its port of Douala on the Bight of  
Biafra. For 10 points, name this country which has helped a neighboring country fight Boko  
Haram after resolving a boundary dispute with Nigeria to its northwest.  
ANSWER: Republic of  Cameroon   
13. 168 orientation-preserving automorphisms exist for this man's namesake Riemann surface  
quartic. This man proposed classifying geometries according to group theory and projective  
geometry in his 1872 manifesto, the Erlangen program. While at Gottingen, this man served as a  
doctoral adviser to Grace Chisholm Young, the first female mathematics Ph.D. recipient there.  
An immersion of another object named for this man resembles a twisted figure 8. That object  
only requires six colors for map coloring, making it the sole exception to the Heawood  
conjecture, and is a one-sided 2-manifold with no boundary that is non-orientable, like the  
Mobius strip. For 10 points, name this German mathematician who devised a namesake bottle.  
ANSWER: Felix  Klein  [or Christian Felix  Klein ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 TOSSUPS  
14. A text set in this place is framed by Echecrates's questions for a person who was there. An  
occupant of this place dreams of a woman clad in white who says to go to Phthia three days  
hence. One conversation in this locale concerns whether tallness is inherent to Simmias, or if  
Simmias is merely relatively tall compared to others. A woman named Xanthippe breaks down  
crying in this place, a few days after her husband describes himself as too thoroughly nurtured by  
his city's laws to defy its judgment against him. This is the setting of a discussion of the  
immortality of the soul in the  Phaedo . For 10 points, name this place from which Crito proposes  
an escape in his namesake dialogue, where Socrates drank hemlock.  
ANSWER:  Socrates prison  '  cell [accept any answer indicating the  prison  of ancient  Athens ; or  
Socrates'  deathbed ; prompt on  prison ; prompt on  jail ; prompt on  Athens ]  
15. When Bernard of Italy challenged this man's right to the throne, he had Bernard blinded, a  
procedure from which Bernard died. A conspiracy against this man was successful at exiling his  
wife, Judith of Bavaria. This man’s mother was Hildegard, and his brothers Charles the Younger  
and Pippin of Italy died before he became king. One of this man’s sons defeated the other after  
the arrival of Count Guerin of Chalon in the Battle of Fontenoy. This man reformed the divisions  
in his empire with the  Ordinatio imperii . After this man’s death, his land was divided in the  
Treaty of Verdun among Lothair, Louis the German, and Charles the Bald. For 10 points, name  
this fourth monarch of the Carolingian Empire, the grandson of Pepin the Short and the son of  
Charlemagne.  
ANSWER:  Louis the Pious  [or  Louis I of France ; or  Louis the Debonair ; or  Louis the Fair ]  
16. The Brookings-SSRC Project was a major effort led by Lawrence Klein in this discipline.  
The hedonic index is a popular metric in this discipline. Popular approaches to this discipline  
include the Cowles Commission and LSE approaches. The coiner of the modern sense of this  
term was the co-winner of the first Nobel Prize in Economics, Ragnar Frisch. A robust technique  
in this discipline, which measures interdependencies between time series, is vector  
autoregression. This field of economics uses the OLS method to estimate parameters in linear  
regression models. For 10 points, name this approach of applying computer science and statistics  
to economics.  
ANSWER:  econometric s [prompt on  economic s; prompt on  macroeconomic s; prompt on  
microeconomic  s]  
17. A composer based in this city employed an unusual augmented seventh to separate the two  
parts of his  Quid non ebrietas.  That man, Adrian Willaert, founded this city's namesake music  
school. A composer working in this city produced the influential  Sacrae symphonie,  which  
motivated Heinrich Schutz to move here and become his pupil. This city was home to a convent  
for abandoned girls where the so-called \"Red Priest\" served as a violin teacher. Monteverdi was  
the chief proponent of the opera of this city, home to a theater nicknamed \"The Phoenix.\" Organ  
music flourished in this city in part due to the two choir lofts of St. Mark's Basilica. For 10  
points, name this city where the barcarolle developed from the folk songs sung by gondoliers.  
ANSWER:  Venice 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 TOSSUPS  
18. A namesake parameter of this theory is normalized by the Racah parameter on the x-axis of  
Tanabe-Sugano diagrams. That parameter's relation to the pairing energy determines whether  
complexes are \"high spin\" or \"low spin\" in this theory. Oddly, the neutral molecule carbon  
monoxide induces the largest value for that parameter, placing it rightmost on the  
spectrochemical series, which reveals the limitations of this theory as it predicts the opposite due  
to being an ionic model that disregards covalent interactions. This theory is used to explain the  
color and magnetic properties of coordination compounds. For 10 points, name this Hans Bethe- 
developed theory that describes the electronic structure of d-block transition metals.   
ANSWER:  crystal field theory  [or  CFT ]  
19. The protagonist of this novel resolves, \"One day I would be a better hand at the game. One  
day I would learn how to laugh\" after being played music by Handel distorted on a gramophone.  
A woman who dissuades this novel's protagonist from a plan to commit suicide on his fiftieth  
birthday later appears as his male, childhood friend at a costume ball. This novel opens with a  
preface narrated by its protagonist's landlady's nephew and includes an interpolated \"Treatise\" on  
the title character written by the Immortals. At its climax, the protagonist stabs Hermine after  
finding her naked on the floor with Pablo in the Magic Theater. For 10 points, name this Herman  
Hesse novel that compares Harry Haller with the title wild animal.  
ANSWER:  Steppenwolf  [or  Der  Steppenwolf ]  
20. Pelias murdered his evil stepmother Sidero in a temple to this deity, who held a grudge  
against Pelias afterwards. After this deity poisoned the water supply of Aegina, the island was  
repopulated by ants that were turned into humans. This goddess was once trapped by a magical  
throne. This goddess blinded Tiresias for his opinion in the great sex enjoyment debate. Chelone  
was transformed into a tortoise for refusing to attend the wedding of this goddess, which  
happened soon after she was seduced in the form of a cuckoo. She once tossed Hephaestus out of  
Mount Olympus. For 10 points, name this goddess who was vengeful against the many  
mistresses of her husband Zeus.  
ANSWER:  Hera  [or  Juno ]  
21. In this novel, a woman divorces her second husband after finding him having sex with the  
maid Babette. A 48-year-old Senator in this novel falls into the snow and dies from a rotten tooth  
extraction shortly after reading a chapter of  The World as Will and Idea.  In this novel, Erica's  
failed marriage to Herr Weinschenk echoes her mother's two failed marriages to Herr  
Permaneder and Herr Grunlich. Christian's sexual deviance puts him at odds with his brother  
Tom in this novel, whose other major characters include the pair's sister, Tony. In this novel,  
Johann and Jean the Consul foster a dynasty that ends with Hanno's death from typhoid. For 10  
points, name this Thomas Mann novel recounting generations of a merchant family in Lübeck.  
ANSWER:  Buddenbrooks 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 TOSSUPS  
22. Charles Steidel discovered a pair of emitters of this phenomenon, one of which was dubbed  
the \"Newfound Blob\". A cloud within Cetus called \"Himiko\" is noted for emitting this line  
strongly, and a type of galaxy named for this distant phenomenon are used to study dark matter  
distribution and show this phenomenon due to bursts of star formation. It has a wavelength of  
around 1215 angstroms, which is equal to 4 over three times the Rydberg constant. In quasar  
spectra, the region next to the Gunn-Peterson trough contains a series of lines caused by this  
transition, known as its namesake forest. For 10 points, name this spectral line that is caused by  
the electronic transition from the n = 2 to n = 1 state in a hydrogen atom.  
ANSWER:  Lyman-alpha  line [prompt on  ultraviolet  or  UV ]  
23. The American president in office during this event rationalized not flying the flag at half- 
staff because he hadn't lowered the flag for \"school children killed in Belfast.\" It did not take  
place in Norway, but a military operation during this event, codenamed Operation Sunshine,  
failed miserably when media crews broadcast the preparations on television. A group of  
participants in this event named themselves after a 1970 war between Jordan and the PLO. In the  
aftermath of this event, Ahmed Bouchiki was killed as part of Operation Wrath of God after  
being mistaken for Ali Hassan Salameh in Lillehammer, Norway. This event began when eight  
terrorists belonging to Black September snuck into the apartment complex that housed the Israeli  
wrestling team. For 10 points, name this event which marred the 1972 Summer Olympic Games  
in a certain German city.  
ANSWER:  Munich Massacre  [or 1972  Black September Munich  attack until \"Black  
September\" is read; or  1972 Munich Olympic Games attack ; or logical equivalents; prompt on  
partial answer] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 BONUSES  
1. The attempt against this man's life succeeded only because he decided to visit hospitalized  
victims of another attack against him. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Austro-Hungarian ruler whose assassination along with his wife Sophie triggered  
the start of World War I.  
ANSWER: Archduke Franz  Ferdinand   
[10] Ferdinand's assassin Gavrilo Princip was a member of this secret Serbian society. Another  
member of this group tried to kill himself following the aforementioned failed bombing by  
jumping into the Miljacka River, but survived because the river was only five inches deep.  
ANSWER:  Black Hand   
[10] As inspector-general, Franz Ferdinand complained constantly about the lack of loyalty and  
money coming from this segment of the army, exacerbating tensions within the empire.  
ANSWER:  Hungarian  army units [or  Honvédség ]  
2. Identify some sleep disorders, for 10 points each.  
[10] This condition is marked by a person entering REM sleep almost immediately upon falling  
asleep, which contributes to sudden episodes of extreme drowsiness during the day.  
ANSWER:  narcolepsy  [or  narcoleptic ]  
[10] A ventilator mask which causes a positive pressure airflow into the windpipe is necessary to  
treat this disorder, when the normal breathing pattern during sleep is interrupted. It is frequently  
caused by relaxation of neck muscles in older patients.  
ANSWER: sleep  apnea   
[10] People with this condition have the extremely unpleasant phenomenon of experiencing loud  
noises while falling asleep. This disorder is hypnagogic, which means it takes place during the  
transition towards sleep.  
ANSWER:  exploding head  syndrome [prompt on \"hypnagogic hallucination\"]  
3. Answer the following about the recently-deceased British Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm,  
for 10 points each.  
[10] Hobsbawm wrote about the \"long\" version of this century, which extended outside its  
calendrical bounds from the French Revolution to World War I. Germany unified in this century.  
ANSWER:  19th  century CE [or  1800s  CE; accept answers indicating \"AD\" in place of \"CE\"]  
[10] A rogue from this place named Salvatore Giuliano is a key example in Hobsbawm's  
historical study of bandits. A social code called  omerta  developed here.  
ANSWER:  Sicily  [or  Sicilia ; prompt on  Italy ]  
[10] Hobsbawm advised this Labour Party leader, who served as Leader of the Opposition after  
Michael Foot during the late premiership of Margaret Thatcher and the early premiership of John  
Major.  
ANSWER: Neil Gordon  Kinnock 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 BONUSES  
4. This novel's narration alternates between first-person \"I,\" second-person \"you,\" and third- 
person \"he.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 1962 novel whose title character is banished from Coyuca for killing his uncle  
Pedro. Then, he kills Gonzalo, the brother of his future wife Catalina, to inherit land from his  
father-in-law Don Gamaliel.  
ANSWER:  The  Death of Artemio Cruz  [or  La  muerte de Artemio Cruz ]  
[10]  The Death of Artemio Cruz  is by this Mexican author.  
ANSWER: Carlos  Fuentes   
[10] This other novel set during the Mexican Revolution focuses on Demetrio Macias, who  
summons up a rebel group and joins Pancho Villa's army. It was written by Mariano Azuela.  
ANSWER:  The  Underdogs  [or  Los  de abajo ]  
5. This inland sea was formed by the encroachment of a finger of the Cordilleran Ice Sheet into  
the Idaho Panhandle, forming a two thousand foot ice dam on the Clark Fork River. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Identify this glacial lake in Montana whose catastrophic floods shaped much of the  
Northwest, including the Channeled Scablands.  
ANSWER: Glacial Lake  Missoula   
[10] This is the technical term given to the Missoula floods and other catastrophic releases of  
water from subglacial reservoirs or ice-dammed lakes. They frequently occur to Lake Grímsvötn  
(KRIMS-voet-uhn), located under Vatnajökull (VAHD-na-yoe-kutl).  
ANSWER: glacier  outburst flood s [or sub-glacial lake  outburst flood s; or GL OF s; or  
jökulhlaup ; prompt on  flood s]  
[10] The jökulhlaups (YOE-cull-louieps) experienced by Vatnajökull (VAHD-na-yoe-kutl) are  
usually a result of eruptions of the subglacial variety of these geologic structures, which melt the  
ice.  
ANSWER:  volcano s  
6. At the end of this play, Alexandra leaves her mother and her plans for their future in Chicago  
after the tragic death of her father. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name play in which Benjamin and Oscar Hubbard steals bonds from Horace, the husband of  
their sister Regina.  
ANSWER:  The  Little Foxes   
[10]  The Little Foxes  was written by this American playwright who also wrote about an evil girl  
named Mary in  The Children’s Hour.   
ANSWER: Lillian  Hellman   
[10] In  The Little Foxes,  the Hubbard brothers plan to construct one of these facilities, another of  
which is owned by John Thornton in Elizabeth Gaskell’s  North and South.   
ANSWER:  cotton mill  [prompt on  mill ; prompt on  factory ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 BONUSES  
7. Moderator note: Do not reveal alternate answers to the first part. Near the end of this  
symphony's first part, the full force of the chorus declaims \"Accende lumen sensibus.\" For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this 1906 symphony, a setting of both the hymn \"Veni Creator Spiritus\" and the  
closing words of Goethe's  Faust,  that is scored for an extremely large orchestra.  
ANSWER: \" Symphony of a Thousand \" [or  Symphony No. 8 in E-flat major ; or  Mahler's 8th   
symphony; accept  Mahler's E-flat major  symphony]  
[10] This late-Romantic Austrian composer of the  Symphony of a Thousand  could have beaten  
the curse of the ninth had he chosen to regard his  Das Lied von der Erde  as a symphony.  
ANSWER: Gustav  Mahler   
[10] An alto solo sings Nietzsche's \"Midnight Song\" in a movement representing \"What Man  
Tells Me\" in this symphony, easily Mahler's longest even without its originally-envisioned  
seventh movement.  
ANSWER: Symphony No.  [or  3  Third  Symphony]  
8. One piece of this type by this artist was created for the set of Erik Satie's  Socrate,  and was  
recreated forty years later just before the artist's death. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this artist-specific kind of piece, examples of which include  Mountains and Clouds,  
The Four Elements,  and a  Mercury Fountain  intended as a memorial for a siege during the  
Spanish Civil War.  
ANSWER: Alexander  Calder's mobile s [or  mobile s by Sandy  Calder ; prompt on  Calder  
sculpture s; prompt on partial answer]  
[10] The best-known of Calder's mobiles is this painted steel wire and sheet aluminum  
construction that hangs from the ceiling at the MoMA.  
ANSWER:  Lobster Trap and Fish Tail   
[10] Although Calder was the artist best known for creating mobiles, the term was actually  
coined by this French sculptor of many readymades who signed a urinal \"R. Mutt.\"  
ANSWER: Marcel  Duchamp   
9. For 10 points each, answer these questions about women from the Ulster Cycle of Irish myth.  
[10] This hero of the Ulster Cycle defeats the evil queen Medb at the Cattle Raid of Cooley.  
ANSWER:  Cu Chulainn   
[10] This woman became pregnant with Cu Chulainn after staying in the house of the sun god  
Lugh, where her kinsmen were resting while hunting a flock of birds.  
ANSWER:  Dechtire  [or  Deichtine ]  
[10] Dechtire’s brother, Conchobar mac Nessa, marries this beautiful woman and kills her true  
love Naoise. She smashes her head on a stone.  
ANSWER:  Deirdre 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 BONUSES  
10. The United States denied this man a visa in 2005 for his role in failing to stop a riot that  
killed approximately 1,000 Muslims following a 2002 train fire in Godhra. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this former chief minister of Gujarat who was elected the new prime minister of India  
in May 2014.  
ANSWER: Narendra  Modi   
[10] Narendra Modi is a member of this party, which advocates a policy of hindutva in  
opposition to the secularist policies of Congress. Two-time prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee  
was also a member of this party.  
ANSWER:  BJP  [or  Bharatiya Janata Party ; or  Indian People's Party ]  
[10] The chief campaigner of the Congress Party in the 2014 Indian elections was this member of  
a political dynasty. Labeled a \"reluctant prince,\" he represented Amethi in Parliament.  
ANSWER:  Rahul Gandhi  [prompt on  Gandhi ; prompt on  R. Gandhi ]  
11. This kind of material consists of atoms in two different phases of matter: liquid and Bose- 
Einstein condensate. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this type of material first discovered by Heike Kammerlingh Onnes.  
ANSWER:  superfluid   
[10] Kammerlingh Onnes first discovered superfluidity in the liquid form of this element, whose  
3 and 4 isotopes have, respectively, one and two neutrons.  
ANSWER:  helium  [or  He ]  
[10] At the lambda point, there is a discontinuity in the graph of this quantity vs. temperature.  
The lambda point is so named because of the shape when this quantity is plotted vs. temperature.  
ANSWER:  heat capacity  [or  specific heat  capacity; or  thermal capacity ]  
12. These two words were used to justify the Supreme Court's decision to uphold the AAA's  
criminalization of farmers exceeding their own quota in the 1942 decision  Wickard v. Filburn.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this three-word-phrase that appears in a clause of Article One of the Constitution.  
This clause allows the Federal Government to pass laws not expressly listed among the powers  
mentioned in the Constitution.  
ANSWER:  necessary and proper  clause [or  elastic  clause; or  basket  clause; or  coefficient  
clause; or  sweeping  clause]  
[10] In this 1819 case, the Supreme Court ruled that the Necessary and Proper clause allowed  
Congress to create a National Bank, and that a certain state lacked the ability to tax it.  
ANSWER:  McCulloch  v. Maryland  [or  Maryland v. McCulloch ]  
[10] Though she wasn't referring to the Clause, Ruth Bader Ginsburg lamented the ban of a  
\"necessary and proper\" surgical procedure in her dissent in this 2007 decision upholding the  
Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act.  
ANSWER:  Gonzales v.  Carhart  [or  Carhart  v. Gonzales ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 BONUSES  
13. Towns of this civilization included Dholavira and Kalibangan, the latter of which was located  
on the now-dry Ghaggar-Hakra River. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this ancient civilization that may have been the first to use indoor plumbing and grow  
cotton, and which largely settled around a namesake Asian river.  
ANSWER:  Indus  Valley Civilization [or  Harappa n Civilization]  
[10] This city excavated after Harappa was the largest city of the civilization, with a population  
that may at one time have been over 40,000.  
ANSWER:  Mohenjo-daro   
[10] Mohenjo-Daro is the site of this structure, which was almost three meters deep and had a  
bitumen lining.  
ANSWER:  Great Bath   
14. A \"Sama\" is a ritualized form of dhikr practiced among members of this branch, whose  
orders include the Mevlevi and Bektashi. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this mystical branch of Islam, some of whose followers practice a type of  
meditation which involves whirling around in a circle.  
ANSWER:  Sufi sm  
[10] A popular Sufi practice is to visit these locations belonging to their favorite Sufi guru. The  
one belonging to Muhammad has a green dome above it.  
ANSWER:  tomb  [or  grave ; accept reasonable equivalents]  
[10] Salafis and others often accuse Sufis of this practice, which roughly translates as  
“polytheism”. More precisely, this is the sin of worshipping or ascribing godlike attributes to  
idols, and is the only unforgivable crime in Islam.  
ANSWER:  shirk   
15. Education is a positive one of these things, and corporate pollution is a negative one. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this economic phenomenon by which a transaction has an effect on a third party.  
ANSWER:  externality  [or  externalities ]  
[10] The effects of a negative externality are supposed to be corrected by levying one of these  
taxes on a transaction that causes a negative externality.  
ANSWER:  Pigouvian  taxes  
[10] Ronald Coase, whose theorem deals with the effect of externalities on efficiency, also wrote  
about the \"nature\" of this entity, the basic actor studied in microeconomics.  
ANSWER: the  firm 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 BONUSES  
16. Lagrange showed that as long as the value d isn't a square number, then this equation has an  
infinite number of solutions. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Diophantine equation of the form x squared minus d y squared equals 1.  
ANSWER:  Pell 's equation  
[10] The Pell numbers can be derived by setting d equal to this value, then rearranging. This  
number is the order of the heat equation and wave equation.  
ANSWER:  [or  2  second ]  
[10] This Indian mathematician invented the chakravala method of solving Pell's equation and  
other indeterminate quadratic equations. He also names a formula for computing the area of  
cyclic quadrilaterals from their side lengths and created rules for working with the number zero.  
ANSWER:  Brahmagupta   
17. This person sits high atop a chariot in the final painting of a series in the Ducal Palace of  
Mantua. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this military leader whose standard bearers, vase bearers, captives, and musicians also  
figure into that Mantegna series about his  Triumphs.   
ANSWER: Gaius  Julius Caesar  [prompt on  Caesar ]  
[10] This other painter created a head of Julius Caesar as a study for a  Tribute  to the Roman.  
This \"faultless painter,\" whose name means \"son of a tailor,\" depicted the Madonna and child  
standing atop a pedestal decorated with harpies.  
ANSWER: Andrea del  Sarto  [or Andrea  d'Agnolo  di Francesco di Luca di Paolo del Migliore;  
or Andrea  Vannuchi]  
[10] In 1524, Del Sarto fled Florence and took refuge from the plague in a Camaldolese convent.  
He thanked the church by painting them one of these scenes of Mary cradling the dead Jesus.  
ANSWER:  Pieta   
18. William Wordsworth's preface to  Lyrical Ballads  criticized a sonnet by this poet for using  
imagery of the god Phoebus. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this alumnus of Eton College, who reminded readers that \"all that glisters [is not]  
gold\" in an ode for a cat that drowned in a tub of goldfish.  
ANSWER: Thomas  Gray   
[10] Gray wrote that \"the paths of glory lead but to the grave\" in this poem, which opens as \"the  
curfew tolls the knell of parting day\" near the title gloomy locale.  
ANSWER: \" Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard \"  
[10] After noting that \"Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest,\" Gray writes that someone  
like this leader, \"guiltless of his country's blood,\" might rest in the churchyard.  
ANSWER: Oliver  Cromwell 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 18 BONUSES  
19. Terrence McNally wrote two short plays about this author's namesake \"syndrome,\" by which  
people collapse upon being overwhelmed by art. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this author who wrote about Fabrice del Dongo's imprisonment during and after the  
Napoleonic wars in  The Charterhouse of Parma.   
ANSWER:  Stendhal  [or Marie-Henri  Beyle ]  
[10] In Stendhal's  The Red and the Black,  Julien Sorel has to choose between two institutions  
symbolized by the title colors. Specify which institution is symbolized by each color.  
ANSWER:  red  represents the French  army  AND  black  represents the Catholic  church  [prompt  
on answers such as the  army  and the  clergy  which do not specify which color is which]  
[10] At the end of  The Red and the Black,  Mathilde does this to a specific part of Julien Sorel's  
dead body.  
ANSWER: she  kiss es his severed  head  on the brow [prompt on  kissing ]  
20. This country is home to Ostroh Castle and the Livadia Palace. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this country, where the Sophia Cathedral and the massacre site Babi Yar are found in  
the environs of its capital.  
ANSWER:  Ukraine   
[10] This autonomous region in Ukraine has its capital at Simferopol and juts into the Black Sea.  
The namesake \"Tatars\" of this region were expelled by Stalin.  
ANSWER: the  Crimea n Peninsula  
[10] Crimea was once home to a surviving dialect of this ethnic group's namesake language,  
whose major written text is a Bible translated by Ulfilas.  
ANSWER:  Goth s  
21. The ninth section of this poem is filled with exclamations, such as \"Throb, baffled and  
curious brain! Throw out questions and answers!\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this poem which asks \"What is the count of the scores or hundreds of years between  
us?\" and begins \"Flood-tide below me! I see you face to face!\"  
ANSWER: \" Crossing Brooklyn Ferry \"  
[10] \"Crossing Brooklyn Ferry\" is part of this Walt Whitman collection, a large chunk of which  
consists of \"Song of Myself.\"  
ANSWER:  Leaves of Grass   
[10] In \"Song of Myself,\" Whitman answers a child asking, \"What is the grass?\" with a series of  
speculations culminating in this famous final six-word definition.  
ANSWER: \"the  beautiful uncut hair of graves \" 
