National History Bowl 11 
Round 12 
First Quarter 
1. This scientist's discovery replaced a popular method created by Jan Ingenhousz and popularized in this 
man's country by Mary Wortley Montagu. James Phipps was used by this scientist to test his theory about 
how milkmaids were often safer from a certain disease than other people. For 10 points, name this English 
scientist who made a more effective method than variolation when he created the vaccination for smallpox. 
ANSWER: Edward Anthony  
Jenner 
023-11-31-12101 
2. One side in this battle was supplied in part by a group of troops who ran the Red Ball Express. An 
offensive launched by the other side in this battle was Operation Bodenplatte, and that side in this battle 
also launched a surprise attack on the \"ghost front.\" For 10 points, name this 1944-1945 battle fought in the 
Ardennes Mountains, in which the Germans were ultimately repulsed despite causing a temporary 
namesake deformation in the Allied line. 
ANSWER:  
Battle of the Bulge 
081-11-31-12102 
3. This man showed a group of crocodile like creatures in his work “The American River Ganges” and 
showed a bridge collapsing in “The Off Year”. This artist also popularized the use of the elephant and 
donkey as symbols for the Republican and Democratic parties. For 10 points, name this American artist 
known for popularizing the modern image of Santa Claus and attacking the Tammany Hall under Boss 
Tweed. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Nast 
064-11-31-12103 
4. Notable individuals to work in this occupation include Cercamon and Bernard de Ventadorn. They were 
known as jongleurs if they covered other's work, and they employed the Occitan language. For 10 points, 
name these singers and poets active in the court life of southern France from the 11th to 14th centuries, 
especially known for lyrics dealing with romantic and chivalrous subjects. 
ANSWER:  
troubadour 
s 
082-11-31-12104 
5. In one painting of this figure as a young boy, he stands next to his smiling father with an axe at his feet. 
One painting of this man in uniform used the Rhine River as its model and unrealistically depicts its scene 
on a clear, sunny day. That painting of this man shows him standing in a boat while some of his men push 
away ice. For 10 points, name this man depicted by Emanuel Leutze during his crossing of the Delaware 
River. 
ANSWER: George  
Washington 
023-11-31-12105 
6. According to legend, this man showed an egg could be stood on one end by first breaking it. An 
“exchange” named for this man was the flow of culture, plants and animals between the old and new 
worlds. This man attempted four voyages, the first in ships called the  
Nina Pinta 
,  , and  
Santa Maria 
. For 10 
points, name this Genoese born explorer whose first voyage was commissioned by Spain in 1492. 
ANSWER: Christopher  
Columbus 
015-11-31-12106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. The Culper spy ring operated primarily on this island, which was home to a group of tribes known as the 
Metoac. In a battle on this island British troops were only ensured of victory after overpowering a tiny 
garrison at Jamaica Pass. Continental troops stationed on this island avoided capture after an overnight 
retreat across the East River. For 10 points, name this home of the formerly independent city of Brooklyn. 
ANSWER:  
Long Island 
064-11-31-12107 
8. In 1918 and 1919, this state’s largest city was menaced by a serial killer nicknamed “the Axeman.” 
Recent racial tensions in this state revolved around the beating of Justin Barker by the “Jena Six.” Recent 
politicians from this state include the Landrieu family, David Vitter, and Bobby Jindal. For 10 points, name 
this state that was the site of the Battle of New Orleans. 
ANSWER:  
Louisiana 
015-11-31-12108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 12 
Second Quarter 
1.  
As a Congressman, this man proposed a namesake amendment barring the U.S. from funding 
religious schools. His first run for the Republican Presidential nomination proved unsuccessful after 
the Mulligan letters implicated him in illegal dealings with the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad 
company. Eight years later, this Secretary of State under (*) 
 Garfield ran unsuccessfully for the 
Presidency, losing popular support after Reverend Samuel Burchard condemned the Democrats as a party 
of “Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion.” For 10 points, name this “Continental Liar from the State of Maine” 
who lost the 1884 election to Grover Cleveland. 
ANSWER: James Gillespie  
Blaine 
BONUS: Blaine's supporters used the slogan, \"Ma, Ma, Where's My Pa?\" against Grover Cleveland. Give 
the eight syllables of the retort by Cleveland supporters. 
ANSWER: \" 
Gone to the White House, Ha, Ha, Ha! 
\" 
079-11-31-12101 
2.  
This work uses the metaphor of a wheel with thirty spokes to explain the usefulness of empty 
space. This work explains how all things were created by the title concept and then \"harmonized by 
the Breath of Vacancy.\" The \"female mystery\" that is the \"valley spirit\" is discussed in one section 
and another states that females overcome males by their (*) 
 stillness. One famous line from this text 
compares governing to cooking a small fish. The title entity is unchanging and nameless. It promotes a 
philosophy sometimes called wuwei, or non action. For 10 points, name this work of Daoist philosophy by 
Laozi. 
ANSWER:  
Dao De Jing 
 [or  
Laozi 
 before mentioned] 
BONUS: Which two opposing forces that together represent an ideal of balance are important concepts in 
Daoism? 
ANSWER:  
Yin and Yang 
001-11-31-12102 
3.  
The “Dirty Thirty” were implicated in a large political scandal in this state that occurred a year 
before Watergate, the Sharpstown Scandal. The Supreme Court ruled that the Commerce Clause 
didn’t apply to the Gun-Free School Zones Act in a case involving a high school student from this 
state in  United States v. Lopez . As many as 12,000 people may have perished in a 1900 (*) 
 hurricane 
that largely destroyed a coastal city in this state. Anthony Francis Lucas is credited with finding the 
Spindletop oil well in this state. The Supreme Court overturned its earlier decision of  
Bowers v. Hardwick 
to overturn sodomy laws in the case of  
Lawrence v. [this state] 
. It’s also where a Branch Davidian 
compound was destroyed in 1993. For 10 points, name this state home to the Waco siege and the site of the 
John F. Kennedy assassination. 
ANSWER:  
Texas 
BONUS: What Texas coastal city near Houston was the city struck hardest by the 1900 hurricane? 
ANSWER:  
Galveston 
094-11-31-12103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
One of this ruler’s ambassadors, Gottfried von Swieten (SVEET-n), was a noted patron of the 
arts. This advisee of Count von Kaunitz signed two Treaties of Versailles to ally with France in the 
Diplomatic Revolution. A land tax on peasants called the Robot Patent, and other reforms, were 
enforced by Count von Haugwitz, an advisor of this predecessor of (*) 
 Joseph II. This successor of 
Charles VI lost Silesia (si-LEE-zhuh) to Frederick the Great in one war. For 10 points, the Pragmatic 
Sanction of 1713 placed what last Hapsburg ruler and only Hapsburg queen on the throne of Austria? 
ANSWER:  
Maria Theresa 
BONUS: Maria Theresa was actually crowned King of Hungary in the city of Pressburg, which today is 
known as this national capital, which lies just thirty miles east of Vienna. 
ANSWER:  
Bratislava 
079-11-31-12104 
5.  
Martha Shelley and Marty Robinson organized marches after this event which took place three 
years after a similar incident at Compton’s Cafeteria. Seymour Pine led one group during this event 
which saw the arrest of folk singer Dave van Ronk. In the aftermath of this event, described as the 
“hairpin drop heard round the world”, rallies were held by both the Daughters of Bilitis and the 
Mattachine Society. It started following a police raid on the namesake bar, leading to a series of 
clashes with the police in (*) 
 Greenwich Village. For 10 points, name this series of 1969 riots in New 
York City, a major event in the early gay rights movement. 
ANSWER:  
Stonewall 
 Riots 
BONUS: What leftist organization of the 1960’s, who adopted the Port Huron Statement, was falsely 
rumored to have been involved in the outbreak of the riots? 
ANSWER:  
Students for a Democratic Society 
 (accept  
SDS 
) 
064-11-31-12105 
6.  
This man signed the Treaty of Pressburg alongside Austrian representatives. Pope Pius VI 
excommunicated this man for his support of the Civil Constitution of the Clergy. He persuaded 
Barras to resign whilst executing the coup of 18 Brumaire. Later, he was made the ambassador to 
Great Britain following the July Revolution. He negotiated most of the 1802 Treaty of (*) 
 Amiens 
with Great Britain and he demanded that a delegation consisting of Elbridge Gerry, Charles Cotesworth 
Pinckney and John Marshall pay him a bribe to speak to three agents during the XYZ affair. For 10 points, 
name this diplomat who represented France at the Congress of Vienna. 
ANSWER: Charles-Maurice de  
Talleyrand 
 Perigord 
BONUS: Which man was the chief representative of Prussia at the Congress of Vienna? 
ANSWER: Karl August von  
Hardenberg 
064-11-31-12106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
This man lost to William F. Packer as the first Republican candidate for Governor of 
Pennsylvania. He also ran for Speaker of the House in 1849 as a candidate for the Free Soil Party, 
which was created partly as a result of the Democrats’ rejection of a bill he sponsored. That bill, 
which was authored by Jacob Brinkerhoff, failed to be incorporated into the Treaty of (*) 
 Guadalupe 
Hidalgo after it failed in the Senate. For 10 points, name this politician who sponsored a bill which would 
have banned slavery in any land gained from Mexico in the Mexican-American War, his namesake proviso. 
ANSWER: David  
Wilmot 
BONUS: Which other Pennsylvania abolitionist later became the leader of the Radical Republicans in the 
House of Representatives in the 1860’s? 
ANSWER: Thaddeus  
Stevens 
024-11-31-12107 
8.  
In this battle, the Duke of Brabant arrived late from a christening and was killed because he 
hastily made an unrecognizable tabard from a flag. The winner ordered his men to lance their 
prisoners at the end of this battle, which was preceded by the siege of Harfleur. The losers managed 
to steal a crown from the baggage train of one of the victors before their commander, (*) 
 Charles 
d'Albert, led them headlong into a line of pikes driven into the deep mud. The superiority of the Welsh 
longbow was also critical to the success of Henry V. Fought in 1415 on St. Crispin's Day, for 10 points, 
name this turning point of the Hundred Years' War. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Agincourt 
BONUS: What phrase, taken from the St. Crispin’s Day Speech in Henry V, was later used to refer to a 
group of World War II soldiers who were the title subject of an HBO miniseries? 
ANSWER:  
Band of Brothers 
079-11-31-12108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 12 
Third Quarter 
EARLY AMERICAN RELIGIOUS LEADERS 
Which early American religious leader… 
A. Delivered the “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God” sermon? 
ANSWER: Jonathan  
Edwards 
B. Advocated the separation of church and state after settling Rhode Island? 
ANSWER: Roger  
Williams 
C. Was expelled from the Massachusetts Bay Colony after she was accused of practicing antinomianism? 
ANSWER: Anne  
Hutchinson 
D. Founded Methodism with Wesley and helped spread the Great Awakening? 
ANSWER: George  
Whitefield 
E. Gave a sermon enjoining the Plymouth Colony to be a “city upon a hill”? 
ANSWER: John  
Winthrop 
F. Had a father named Increase and wrote about the Salem Witchtrials in  
Wonders of the Invisible World 
? 
ANSWER: Cotton  
Mather 
G. Was a pair of sisters who used their Quaker beliefs to advocate abolition? 
ANSWER: Sarah and Angelina  
Grimke 
H. Coined the term “free love” and set up the Oneida Community? 
ANSWER: John Humphrey  
Noyes 
015-11-31-1210-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
Name some things or people related to the first ten constitutional amendments. 
A. Give the term for those ten amendments. 
ANSWER:  
Bill of Rights 
B. The Third Amendment deals with this practice of forcibly housing troops in private homes. 
ANSWER:  
quartering 
C. The Second Amendment provides for the right to bear arms with the goal of establishing a \"well 
regulated\" type of this force. 
ANSWER:  
militia 
D. The Fifth Amendment prevents this practice of trying someone twice for the same crime. 
ANSWER:  
double jeopardy 
E. This amendment guarantees the right to a civil trial by jury in cases of common law. 
ANSWER:  
Seventh 
 Amendment 
F. This man influenced the amendments with his Virginia Declaration of Rights. 
ANSWER:  
George Mason 
G. The convention at which the Constitution was drafted was held in this city. 
ANSWER:  
Philadelphia 
H. The amendments were introduced at the convention by this man, a future president. 
ANSWER: James  
Madison 
040-11-31-1210-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
REVOLUTIONARY WAR 
At which Revolutionary War battle did…... 
A. American forces, led by William Prescott and Israel Putnam, receive the order not to fire until they saw 
the whites of their enemies' eyes? 
ANSWER:  
Bunker Hill 
B. John Burgoyne receive a defeat at the hands of Horatio Gates in New York? 
ANSWER:  
Saratoga 
C. Cornwallis surrender the last British stronghold in America to general Washington? 
ANSWER:  
Yorktown 
D. Washington ambush a Hessian garrison the day after Christmas? 
ANSWER:  
Trenton 
E. Daniel Morgan use three lines of troops to defeat the British in South Carolina? 
ANSWER:  
Cowpens 
F. The British win a pyrrhic victory over the forces of Nathaniel Greene in North Carolina? 
ANSWER:  
Guilford Courthouse 
G. A loyalist militia force under the command of Patrick Ferguson encounter defeat by bands of American 
militiamen? 
ANSWER:  
Kings Mountain 
H. Lighthorse Harry Lee's forces disguise themselves as Banastre Tarleton's troops to surprise a band of 
British soldiers? 
ANSWER:  
Pyle's Massacre 
 [or Battle of  
Haw River 
] 
040-11-31-1210-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 12 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
Rampant desertions by the police force after this event caused police superintendent Eddie 
Compass to resign four weeks after it occurred. An audit of one organization in the aftermath of this 
event by Richard (+)  Skinner found that “much of the criticism” of that organization “was 
warranted.” The head of that organization, Michael Brown, was told that he was (*) 
 “doing a heck of 
a job” in response to this disaster by George W. Bush. For 10 points, name this natural disaster that 
prompted mayor Ray Nagin to call for the rebuilding of a “chocolate city” after it hit New Orleans in 2005. 
ANSWER: Hurricane  
Katrina 
023-11-31-12101 
2.  
This event caused the political downfall of Charles Spencer, the 3rd Earl of Sunderland as well as 
the end of John Aislabie's career. Two generations of the Craggs family were also affected by this 
event, fears over which were assuaged by Robert Walpole. Similar to a scandal precipitated by the 
actions of (+)  John Law, this event was made possible by an exclusive right to ship slaves to the 
Spanish colonies in America. However, the organization at the heart of this event attempted to buy 
off the debt of Great Britain, and its (*) 
 stock price became greatly inflated. For 10 points, name this 
economic disaster caused by the namesake company's bubble. 
ANSWER:  
South Sea 
 Bubble (or Company) 
040-11-31-12102 
3.  
The person who served longest at this position was Earle Wheeler, and another who served in this 
position, John William Vessey, argued against the use of Marines in Lebanon. One man who held this 
position, John Shelton, popularized the use of the term “Dover Test,” regarding the American 
public’s ability to accept the return of (+)  flag-draped caskets to Dover Air Force Base. Another man 
who served in this position under President Clinton, John Shalikashvili, wrote a 2007 op-ed in the  
New York Times  against the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. The first person to hold this position was 
(*) 
 Omar Bradley. For 10 points, Colin Powell served in what position during the first Gulf War, which is 
the highest ranked officer in the United States Armed Forces. 
ANSWER:  
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
 [or  
CJCS 
] 
030-11-31-12103 
4.  
This war saw a protracted siege fought at Myitkyina, much of which occurred during the monsoon 
season. That battle marked the end of the action of Merrill's Marauders, and one side during it was 
lead by a man nicknamed (+)  \"vinegar,\" Joseph Stillwell. Stillwell often butted heads with fellow 
commander Claire Chennault, who presided over what was an originally volunteer air unit called the 
Flying Tigers. Those American initiatives were designed to supplement British and Chinese troops 
even though the British had already surrendered (*) 
 Singapore to the Japanese. For 10 points, name this 
global conflict fought mostly during the 1940s. 
ANSWER:  
World War II 
040-11-31-12104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
When this man was captured in Rawalpindi, a hard drive containing evidence was also found. An 
infamous mugshot of this man shows him with a mustache, a five-o-clock shadow, and copious back 
and (+)  chest hair poking through the large neckhole of his white shirt. Though he was originally 
slated to be tried in New York, Eric Holder announced in 2011 that he will be tried in front of a (*) 
military tribunal. For 10 points, name this Al Qaeda operative, identified in the 9/11 Commission Report as 
the architect of the September 11 attacks. 
ANSWER: Khalid Sheikh  
Mohammed 
 [or  
KSM 
] 
026-11-31-12105 
6.  
The first of these events took place at Green Level after the failed 1780 Tory Conspiracy. In Idaho, 
one of these events occurred at Yellow Dog Creek after James Daniels was pardoned for murder. 
Reputable sources for the number of these events include the  Chicago Tribune , which started 
tracking them in (+)  1882, and the Department of Records and Archives at Tuskegee. The office of 
the  Memphis Free Speech  was attacked after 1892 articles by its co-owner, Ida Wells, questioned the 
supposition that most of these events occurred because their victims had (*) 
 raped white women. For 
10 points, name these extrajudicial applications of justice that, in the Jim Crow South, often involved 
hanging people for being black males. 
ANSWER:  
lynching 
 [or  
lynch 
 law] 
003-11-31-12106 
7.  
This location’s batteries were bypassed by a fleet commanded by David Porter. During this 
place’s namesake campaign, one side established headquarters at Grenada, and its siege was made 
possible by the battles of Champion’s Hill and Big Black River. One battle near here saw the 
gunboats (+) Choctaw  and  Lexington  support troops of Hermann Lieb’s African Brigade at 
Milliken’s Bend. Joseph E. Johnston’s orders to evacuate this place were overridden by Jefferson 
Davis, and its commander, (*) 
 John C. Pemberton, ultimately surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant. For 10 
points, name this Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi River whose fall in 1863 split the Confederacy 
in half. 
ANSWER:  
Vicksburg 
030-11-31-12107 
8.  
This man introduced half integer quantum numbers to account for the Zeeman effect. With Max 
Born and Pascual Jordan, this man published the \"Three-Man Paper,\" which laid the foundation for 
quantum mechanics. His family's friendship with the family of Heinrich Himmler helped shield this 
man from the (+)  Deutsche Physik movement, and during World War II, this man was a leading 
figure in Germany's attempt to develop nuclear weapons. At Karlsruhe, this man planned West 
Germany's first nuclear reactor, and he proposed that the (*) 
 momentum and position of a particle 
could not be exactly measured simultaneously. For 10 points, name this German physicist who formulated 
a namesake uncertainty principle. 
ANSWER: Werner  
Heisenberg 
030-11-31-12108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 12     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
