NASAT 2013 
Round 11 
Tossups 
1. Constructing this form in Finnish involves using the auxiliary verb \"olla\" and the participle endings, and 
in Welsh it is created by adding the letters \"as\" before another form. Italian uses both \"recent\" and \"remote\" 
versions of this verb form, and in French, it is formed in writing by adding a past participle to forms of 
\"avoir\" and \"etre.\" German and French speakers both use an alternative version of this form in which 
particles from another tense are doubled. In Latin, this verb form is created in the subjunctive by adding 
\"isse\" before the personal verb endings, and in the indicative by adding \"era\" before the personal endings. 
For 10 points, identify this verb form, a tense or aspect which indicates an action that was completed before 
another action of the past referenced in the surrounding context, or chronologically before the perfect. 
ANSWER:  
pluperfect 
 tense/aspect 
019-13-83-11101 
2. In this state, Steve Lonegan and Alieta Eck are competing in a Republican primary election. John 
Hoffman was appointed as this state's Attorney General to replace Jeffrey Chiesa. A senator from this state 
authored the Ryan White Care Act and introduced the act raising the national drinking age to 21. Barbara 
Buono is running for the governorship of this state, where gay teenager Tyler Clementi committed suicide 
in 2011. For 10 points, name this state that was represented by deceased senator Frank Lautenberg, whose 
seat will be filled in a special election called by Chris Christie. 
ANSWER:  
New Jersey 
080-13-83-11102 
3. One disorder named for this behavior has a variant named for Akira Sato, and is diagnosed using the 
Rome III criteria; that disorder causes this to occur cyclically. If this behavior produces oxidized products, 
its products are said to have a coffee-ground appearance. This behavior is induced by stimulation of the 
area postrema, which comprises the chemoreceptor trigger zone. This behavior is repeatedly self-induced in 
patients with anorexia nervosa using a hand or finger. For 10 points, name this involuntary action known 
medically as emesis, in which the contents of the stomach are expelled through the mouth. 
ANSWER:  
vomiting 
 [accept  
emesis purging throwing up 
,  ,  , etc.] 
048-13-83-11103 
4. Early in this work, the protagonist detachedly watches an ant caught in a sand trap, and at its ending, the 
protagonist watches ants crawl over his boot as he puts his foot in their path. In this work, Apolonia, the 
sister-in-law of the protagonist, becomes despondent after thinking her sister has died in a fire. Juan Tomas 
warns his brother in this work about the dangers of possessing the title object. The refusal of the doctor of 
the village of La Paz to treat Coyotito's shoulder, which has been stung by a scorpion, prompts his father to 
search for a means of paying the doctor. At the end of this novella, Kino returns the title item to the sea. For 
10 points, name this novella by John Steinbeck about an object found inside a mollusk. 
ANSWER:  
The  Pearl 
030-13-83-11104 
NASAT 2013     11     Page  1 of 11 
5. One tradition from this country is the \"three-finger salute,\" an extension of the thumb, index, and middle 
fingers that is meant to represent patriotism. Villages in this nation hold a tree called the  
zapis 
 holy, while 
families in this country celebrate their patron saint on Slava. Its third-largest city is served by Constantine 
the Great Airport, and its namesake language was reformed by Vuk Karadzic. The Morava is a tributary of 
the Danube in this nation, whose other rivers include the Tisa and Sava. Cities in this nation include Nis 
and Novi Sad. For 10 points, name this Balkan country from which Kosovo has declared independence. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Serbia 
192-13-83-11105 
6. A sculpture depicting a black man as an angel was installed in one church in this city, whose firm of 
Eames and Young built the Lincoln Trust Building. Another structure in this city was attacked by Gilmore 
D. Clarke as a “fascist symbol” and had its construction delayed by civil rights protester Percy Green, who 
climbed it and refused to come down. The largest courthouse in the U.S. is in this city, home to a Dankmar 
Adler co-designed 10-story red brick office building named for a local brewer. This home of Louis 
Sullivan’s Wainwright Building features the tallest man-made monument in the U.S., a structure designed 
by Eero Saarinen located at the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial. For 10 points, name this city, the 
site of the Gateway Arch. 
ANSWER:  
St. Louis 
052-13-83-11106 
7. This effect causes the attenuation coefficient to sharply increase in the K edge. This effect is used to 
measure molecular orbital energies in a type of spectroscopy that uses UV radiation as a source. This effect 
is combined with secondary emission to detect UV, visible, and near IR radiation with great sensitivity in 
vacuum tubes named for being a \"multiplier\" of this effect. The stopping voltage for this effect does not 
depend on incident intensity. This effect requires a threshold kinetic energy to be met that is equivalent to 
the work function. For 10 points, name this effect in which an incident photon results in the emission of an 
electron from a metal surface, described by Einstein in a 1905 paper. 
ANSWER:  
photoelectric 
 effect 
020-13-83-11107 
8. The title character of one of this man's novels is possessed by the Master Spirit and assumes the identity 
of the dictator Lord Paramount as he leads Great Britain to war against the United States and Germany. 
This author of  
The Autocracy of Mr. Parham 
 wrote about Teddy Pondervo, who becomes fabulously 
wealthy from manufacturing the title drug in his novel  
Tono-Bungay 
. In another of his novels, attackers try 
to steal Mrs. Elphinstone's carriage as she flees London, and Chief Justice Lord Garrick receives no special 
treatment following an invasion. The narrator of that novel by this author uses Ogilvy's telescope and 
examines cylinders at a crash site. For 10 points, name this author of  
The War of the Worlds 
. 
ANSWER: Herbert George  
Wells 
030-13-83-11108 
9. Married couples during this event could only see each other one night a week because of the \"Saturday 
Night Rule,\" and unmarried women were told in a song, \"don't love boys, love guns!\" Edgar Snow detailed 
this event in a book called  
Red Star Over 
 the country in which it took place. The Fifth Encirclement forced 
this event, which Otto Braun took part in. The participants of this event defeated warlord forces at the 
Battle of Luding Bridge and reshuffled their leadership at the Zunyi Conference. This event ended with the 
union of Red Army units at Shaanxi, thousands of miles away from Jiangxi. For 10 points, name this 1934 
to 1935 retreat from the Kuomintang by Communist forces under Mao Zedong. 
ANSWER:  
Long March 
 [prompt on answers like  
Mao's big retreat 
] 
020-13-83-11109 
NASAT 2013     11     Page  2 of 11 
10. This god ruled over an age ending with a day-long downpour of fire that killed all mortals except those 
who transformed into birds. Mortals who died of leprosy and dropsy were not cremated, but buried with 
small pieces of wood in this god's honor. This god supervised four spirits who watched over the four 
corners of the universe and smashed open pot-like mountains at the proper time. His consort, who once 
destroyed the world with a giant flood, was named \"She of the jade skirt.\" This god was honored in the 
Atlacahualo festival, in which his priests extracted hearts from children sacrificed to him. This god presided 
over both storms and restoring rain. For 10 points, name this Aztec god of water. 
ANSWER:  
Tlaloc 
080-13-83-11110 
11. Part of this piece is quoted in the \"Cortege\" of Jacques Ibert's  
Divertissement for Chamber Orchestra 
. 
Carl Orff did not come through with a Nazi commission for a replacement score for this work. A parody 
funeral march comes shortly before its epilogue, which reprises the composer's earlier concert overture on 
the same subject. This piece contains the songs \"Ye Spotted Snakes\" and \"What hempen homespuns,\" 
along with material from its source text, like the fifth act braying of one character and another character's 
line \"If we shadows have offended.\" The intermezzo between Act IV and V of this work often plays at the 
end of weddings. For 10 points, the \"Wedding March\" is part of Mendelssohn's incidental music to what 
Shakespeare play? 
ANSWER: incidental music to  
A  Midsummer Night's Dream 
, Op. 62 [accept the \" 
Wedding March 
\" on 
the first line] 
020-13-83-11111 
12. CYP2E1 enzyme activity is required for the metabolism of this compound via the MEOS pathway. The 
proton NMR spectrum of this compound results in a triplet at around 1.2, a quartet at around 3.6, and a 
singlet at around 5.2. This compound's presence is detected by a color change when it reacts with sulfuric 
acid and potassium dichromate to form chromium sulfate. A common example of an azeotrope is a solution 
of 96% of this compound and 4% of water. This compound's namesake dehydrogenase catalyzes the 
reformation of NADH and the conversion of it into acetaldehyde, resulting in a hangover. For 10 points, 
name this compound with formula C2H5OH, an alcohol. 
ANSWER:  
ethanol 
 [or  
ethyl alcohol 
; or  
grain alcohol 
; or  
drinking alcohol 
; prompt on  
alcohol 
 for the 
sake of this question] 
020-13-83-11112 
13. In Thucydides'  
History of the Peloponnesian War 
, Sparta executes every citizen of this city who cannot 
say what they did to help Sparta in the war. A battle at this place is commemorated by the Serpent Column 
now located in Istanbul. In a battle at this place, the Athenians under Aristides were able to defeat the 
Theban phalanx, and a victory swelled Pausanias' ego. The Battle of Mycale took place at the same time as 
a battle here, in which the Spartan Arimnestus used a rock to kill Mardonius. For 10 points, name this city 
that was the namesake of the final battle in Xerxes' invasion of Greece. 
ANSWER:  
Plataea 
 [or Battle of  
Plataea 
] 
080-13-83-11113 
NASAT 2013     11     Page  3 of 11 
14. With an Italian, this mathematician names the result that the image of a subset of a complex plane under 
a function with an essential singularity in that subset will be dense in the complex plane. This 
non-American mathematician partially names a theorem which states that every continuous function on a 
closed interval can be uniformly approximated, arbitrarily closely, by a polynomial. He is the second 
namesake of a theorem stating that a bounded and closed subset of R-n is sequentially compact. He used 
the concept of uniform convergence to create the rigorous definition of continuity and revised Cauchy's 
imprecise epsilon-delta definition of a limit. For 10 points, identify this German who names a theorem with 
Bolzano and discovered a function that is everywhere continuous but nowhere differentiable. 
ANSWER: Karl  
Weierstrass 
080-13-83-11114 
15. This event was followed by the \"hot summer\" and a failed Communist coup in November. This event 
established the Ongoing Revolutionary Process, run by the National Salvation Junta. Beginning on the 25th 
of April, this event was sparked by the attempted deposition of General Antonio de Spinola. This event's 
initiators were signaled to begin by the playing of their country's most recent Eurovision entry. Vitor Alves 
and Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho led the Armed Forces Movement that opposed Marcelo Caetano's 
government in this event. This event gained its name from the type of flower protestors put in rifles during 
it. For 10 points, name this 1974 military coup that overthrew the Estado Novo in Portugal. 
ANSWER:  
Carnation Revolution 
 [or  
Revolution of the Carnations 
; or  
Revolucao dos Cravos 
; or  
25 
April 
 coup before read] 
192-13-83-11115 
16. This man twice replied, \"As the Lord lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you\" after another 
man said not to accompany him to Bethel and Jericho. This man turned his servant Gehazi into a leper for 
accepting gifts from the Syrian general Naaman, whom he told to bathe seven times in the Jordan River. 
After a widow asked him for help, he multiplied the oil she had into many jars so she could pay her debt. 
This man responded to boys who mocked his baldness by summoning two she-bears to maul them to death. 
He asked for \"a double-portion of your spirit\" on the far bank of the Jordan, where he picked up the mantle 
of a prophet taken up into the whirlwind. For 10 points, name this disciple and successor of Elijah. 
ANSWER:  
Elisha 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"Elijah\"] 
080-13-83-11116 
17. In a museum in this city, one can find a painting in which three miters, representing three refused 
bishoprics, lie at the feet of St. Bernardino of Siena. Christ wears a half-red, half-blue cloak in one painting 
of the  
Apostolate 
 series housed in this city. An allegory of a river flowing through this city is seen as a 
sculpture pouring water in another painting, in which a map of this city is held up by the artist's son and the 
facade of the Hospital of Don Juan Tavera is presented realistically. Another painting of it emphasizes dark 
green trees swaying in the wind and contrasts this city's hills with the distorted storm clouds above. For 10 
points, name this city, the subject of two views by resident artist El Greco. 
ANSWER:  
Toledo 
020-13-83-11117 
18. This man addressed Ebenezer Thayer in a set of \"instructions\" named for his home town. Although his 
language was not chosen, this man wrote \"all men are born equally free and independent\" in his draft of 
Article I of the oldest constitution still in use today. This author of  
Thoughts on Government 
 defended 
against allegations that the  
Liberty 
, John Hancock's ship, avoided paying taxes. This author of  
Braintree 
Instructions 
 also got six British soldiers acquitted for participation in the Boston Massacre. For 10 points, 
name this lawyer-turned-politician who wrote the Massachusetts state constitution and was elected 
President in 1796. 
ANSWER: John  
Adams 
190-13-83-11118 
NASAT 2013     11     Page  4 of 11 
19. Benjamin Bennett wrote an essay about “interrupted tragedy” in this work, whose textual unity is the 
central question debated by its scholars. This work’s most difficult section climaxes with one character 
crashing into Galatea’s chariot. A mysterious voice cries out the word “Redeemed!” as the protagonist of 
this work unsuccessfully attempts to rescue a woman convicted of infanticide from a dungeon. In a crucial 
wager, the protagonist bets that he will strive perpetually and never be satisfied. For 10 points, name this 
drama about a scholar who seduces Gretchen with the aid of Mephistopheles, the magnum opus of Johann 
Wolfgang von Goethe. 
ANSWER:  
Faust 
014-13-83-11119 
20. This poet asked, \"Can't I use my wit as a pitchfork to drive the brute off?\" in a poem depicting 
middle-class work as the title creature. In another poem, he described \"a shape less recognizable each week, 
a purpose more obscure,\" noting, \"I take off my cycle-clips in awkward reverence\" upon entering the title 
location. This poet of \"Toads\" described \"everyone young going down the long slide to happiness, 
endlessly,\" in a poem that begins by imagining a girl \"taking pills or wearing a diaphragm.\" His most 
famous poem concludes by advising, “Get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself.” For 
10 points, name this gloomy British poet of \"Church Going,\" “High Windows,” and “This Be the Verse.” 
ANSWER: Philip  
Larkin 
121-13-83-11120 
21. The influential paper  
Fundamental Concepts in [these things] 
 was written by Christopher Strachey. A 
division used in the definition of these things comes in three primary types: operational, axiomatic, and 
denotational. These things can have explicit or implicit and static or dynamic type systems. They can 
implement namespaces to encapsulate items. One category of these things can be viewed as syntactical 
variations of the lambda calculus. Another category of them typically implements subtype polymorphism 
and inheritance. Those categories are functional and object-oriented. Compilers work on source code 
written in one of these things. For 10 points, identify these things that include Java and are used to write 
programs. 
ANSWER:  
programming language 
s [do not accept or prompt on specific programming paradigms] 
066-13-83-11121 
22. In this novel, the shopkeeper Maigrat agrees to give up groceries and money in exchange for the soft 
touches of a woman, and Zacherie carries on an affair with one of the daughters of his family's next-door 
neighbors, Philomene Levaque. On the protagonist's first day of work, he is inspected by Dansaert and 
Monsieur Negrel. That protagonist, who was first introduced in the novel  
L'Assommoir, 
 later discusses 
socialism with Souvarine. This novel opens with a man with lung problems, Vincent Maheu, meeting the 
eventual lover of his daughter Catherine. For 10 points, name this novel in which a coal miners' strike is led 
by Etienne Lantier, a work by Emile Zola. 
ANSWER:  
Germinal 
192-13-83-11122 
23. For a brief time, this ruler showed favor towards the Judaizer hersey. Under this man's rule, Vladimir 
Gusev completed the Sudebnik law code This ruler's general Daniil Kholmsky executed Dmitry Boretsky 
after decisively defeating that man's forces at the Battle of Shelon. The Great Stand on the Ugra took place 
following this ruler's refusal to pay tribute to Akhmat Khan, a move symbolizing the end of the Tatar yoke 
on Moscow. This husband of Zoe Palaeologos conquered the Tver and Novgorod, leading to his reputation 
as the \"gatherer of the Russian lands.\" For 10 points, name this grand prince of Moscow who ruled from 
1462 to 1505. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan III 
 [or  
Ivan the Great 
; or  
Ivan Vasilyevich 
; or  
Ivan Veliky 
; prompt on  
Ivan 
] 
141-13-83-11123 
NASAT 2013     11     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2013 
Round 11 
Bonuses 
1. The Merrimack River rises near this state's city of Franklin. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this state between Maine and Vermont. 
ANSWER:  
New Hampshire 
[10] This tallest mountain in the Northeastern United States long held the record for fastest winds measured 
on Earth's surface. It is part of the Presidential Range in the White Mountains. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Washington 
[10] Another feature of the White Mountains was the Old Man of the Mountain, a series of granite 
outcroppings from this mountain that attracted tourists until its collapse in 2003. 
ANSWER:  
Cannon 
 Mountain 
192-13-83-11201  
2. The novel this character appears in is narrated by his novice Adso of Melk. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Franciscan friar tasked with solving a set of murders in a monastery. 
ANSWER:  
William 
 of Baskerville 
[10] William of Baskerville appears in  
The Name of the Rose, 
 which was written by this Italian semiotician 
who also wrote  
Foucault's Pendulum. 
ANSWER: Umberto  
Eco 
[10] This other Eco novel centers on Yambo's return to Solara after he suffers amnesia due to a stroke. 
After discovering his grandfather's copy of the First Folio, he begins to remember his childhood. 
ANSWER:  
The  Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana 
 [or  
La  Misteriosa Fiamma della Regina Loana 
] 
192-13-83-11202  
3. George Washington Williams wrote an open letter denouncing activities in this place. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this state that was also the focus of the critiques of E.D. Morel. A \"Reform Association\" meant 
to improve this state, which ceased to exist in 1908, was co-founded by Morel and Roger Casement. It was 
the original state patrolled by the Force Publique. 
ANSWER:  
Congo Free State 
 [prompt on  
Congo 
; do not accept \"Belgian Congo\" or \"Democratic Republic 
of the Congo\"] 
[10] The Congo Free State was privately controlled by Leopold II, a king of this European country that 
later annexed the colony. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Belgium 
 [or Royaume de  
Belgique 
; or Koninkrijk  
Belgie 
] 
[10] The Force Publique notoriously had to present to their superiors these objects to prove they had carried 
out punishments against workers who failed to meet rubber quotas. 
ANSWER:  
hands 
 of victims 
052-13-83-11203  
NASAT 2013     11     Page  6 of 11 
4. This man sued Park Benjamin Jr. for libel over claims that his account of the Battle of Lake Erie was 
inaccurate. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this American author whose “Literary Offenses” were compiled by Mark Twain. 
ANSWER: James Fenimore  
Cooper 
[10] Cooper is perhaps most famous for writing this novel, one of his \"Leatherstocking Tales,\" in which 
Uncas and Cora are killed before Hawkeye shoots Magua. 
ANSWER:  
The  Last of the Mohicans 
[10] In this \"Leatherstocking Tale,\" chronologically last in the series, an elderly Natty Bumppo, referred to 
only as \"the trapper,\" assists the family of Ishmael Bush threatened by the devilish Tetons. 
ANSWER:  
The  Prairie 
149-13-83-11204  
5. Resolutions passed during this council include  
Dei Filius 
 and  
Pastor Aeternus 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this council convoked in 1869 that laid out the doctrine of papal infallibility. 
ANSWER:  
First Vatican 
 Council [or  
Vatican I 
; prompt on  
Vatican 
] 
[10] The First Vatican Council was called by this longest-reigning pope in history, who was the last leader 
of the Papal States before their incorporation into the Kingdom of Italy. He also elucidated the doctrine of 
Immaculate Conception. 
ANSWER:  
Pius IX 
 [or Giovanni Maria  
Mastai-Ferreti 
; prompt on  
Pius 
] 
[10] The pope immediately succeeding Pius IX, Leo XIII, issued this encylical in 1891. Its subject was the 
relationship between laborer and employer, supporting the right of workers to form unions. 
ANSWER:  
Rerum Novarum 
192-13-83-11205  
6. These things consists of an electronic circuit whose various components, such as transistors, resistors and 
capacitors, have been manufactured on the surface of a semiconductor. For 10 points each; 
[10] Name these things developed independently by Jack Kilby, in germanium while at Texas Instruments, 
and Robert Noyce, in silicon while at Fairchild Semiconductor. 
ANSWER: monolithic  
integrated circuit 
 [or  
IC 
; or  
integrated chip 
; prompt on micro 
chip 
] 
[10] These circuit devices are typically excluded from integrated circuits due to difficulty in making large 
ones. These devices store energy in a magnetic field that is created when current flows through it. 
ANSWER:  
inductor 
 [or  
choke 
; or  
coil 
; or  
reactor 
] 
[10] Robert Noyce left Fairchild Semiconductor to found Intel, where Ted Hoff created the first 
commercially available one of these devices, the 4004, in 1971. 
ANSWER:  
microprocessor 
066-13-83-11206  
7. The first person with this title founded the Tashilhunpo Monastery. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this position whose current holder was discovered by the fifth Reting Rinpoche. 
ANSWER:  
Dalai Lama 
[10] The Dalai Lama is a position in the Tibetan branch of this religion based on the teachings of Siddartha 
Gautama. 
ANSWER:  
Buddhism 
[10] This sect of Tibetan Buddhists is led by the Dalai Lama and is named for how it distinguishes itself 
from the Karma-pa sect. 
ANSWER:  
Yellow Hat 
 Sect [or  
Gelupka 
; or  
Dge-lugs-pa 
] 
023-13-83-11207  
NASAT 2013     11     Page  7 of 11 
8. This quantity is found on the x-axis of a chart that has the friction factor and relative pipe roughness on 
the y-axis. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this quantity equal to the product of characteristic velocity and length divided by kinematic 
viscosity. 
ANSWER:  
Reynolds 
 number 
[10] This type of flow occurs at high values of Reynolds number. It is the opposite of laminar flow. 
ANSWER:  
turbulent 
 [or word forms] 
[10] That aforementioned chart with the Reynolds number on the x-axis is named for this American 
engineer. It is usually used to estimate the friction factor. 
ANSWER: Lewis Ferry  
Moody 
149-13-83-11208  
9. This artist depicted a large group of people taking shelter in the Liverpool Street extension in his painting 
Tube Shelter Perspective 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this British artist who was commissioned by the Festival of Britain in 1951 to make the first of 
his many  
Reclining Figures 
. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Moore 
[10] The University of Chicago campus houses this 1967 Moore sculpture, erected for the 25th anniversary 
of Enrico Fermi's atom-splitting experiment during the Manhattan Project. 
ANSWER:  
Nuclear Energy 
[10] Many of Moore's sculptures were inspired by the Chac Mool statues produced by the Toltecs and this 
other Mesoamerican culture at sites like Chichen Itza along the Yucatan Peninsula. 
ANSWER:  
Maya 
023-13-83-11209  
10.  
Gingko biloba 
 has properties rarely found in other seed plants. For 10 points each: 
[10]  
Gingko biloba 
 is the only extant species in division Ginkgophyta, one of four divisions in this group of 
plants that bear seeds but not flowers. This group also includes conifers and cycads. 
ANSWER:  
gymnosperm 
s [or  
Gymonsperm 
ae] 
[10] Cycads and gingko are the only seed plants whose sperm have this property, though this property is 
also possessed by sperm of mosses, ferns, and animals. 
ANSWER:  
motility 
 [or obvious equivalents mentioning that the sperm can  
move 
; or that they have  
flagella] 
[10] Only gingko tree and fern leaves display this venation pattern, in which the veins branch out from one 
another. It is distinguished from reticulated and parallel venation patterns. 
ANSWER:  
dichotomous 
 venation 
003-13-83-11210  
11. The only man to hold this post was known as the \"Little Pale Star.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this position whose only holder gave the \"Cornerstone Speech\" to explain his country's reasons 
for existence. 
ANSWER:  
Vice President 
 of the  
Confederate 
 States of America [or  
CSA Vice President 
; prompt on  
Vice President 
] 
[10] Confederate VP Alexander Stephens served under this man, a former Secretary of War who became 
the only Confederate President. 
ANSWER: Jefferson Finis  
Davis 
[10] Stephens and two other Confederates met on a ship in February 1865 with Abraham Lincoln in this 
unsuccessful meeting that tried to end the Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
Hampton Roads 
 Conference 
052-13-83-11211  
NASAT 2013     11     Page  8 of 11 
12. For 10 points each, answer the following about hotels in American literature. 
[10] Kent Lansing struggles with architect Howard Roark over the building of the Aquitania Hotel in this 
novel by Ayn Rand. 
ANSWER:  
The  Fountainhead 
[10] This man gets in trouble during his time as a Kansas City bellhop in Theodore Dreiser’s novel  
An 
American Tragedy 
. He later murders Roberta Alden on a lake. 
ANSWER:  
Clyde 
 Griffiths [or Clyde  
Griffiths 
] 
[10] This card game is played in the town of Fort Romper, Nebraska by the characters in Stephen Crane’s 
story “The Blue Hotel.” A cowboy often whacks the board when he gets a good hand in this game. 
ANSWER: “ 
High-Five 
” 
104-13-83-11212  
13. These people would often pour ice water on a goat and observe its reaction, only proceeding with their 
job if the animal shivered from the cold. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these priestesses who entered a frenzied state by inhaling vapors emitting from the ground to 
deliver prophecies guided by Apollo. 
ANSWER: Delphic  
oracle 
s [or  
pythia 
] 
[10] The pythia also presided over this artifact, which marks the site at which two eagles sent by Zeus met 
at the \"navel\" of the world. 
ANSWER:  
omphalos 
[10] The temple of Apollo at Delphi was located on the slopes of this mountain, also the home of the 
Corcyrian nymphs and the Muses. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Parnassus 
080-13-83-11213  
14. Answer the following about seismic waves, for 10 points each. 
[10] These seismic waves cannot travel through the liquid outer core, leading to the creation of a shadow 
zone above 104 degrees from the epicenter. 
ANSWER:   wave 
s 
[10] This notation describes a p wave that passes through the mantle, outer core and inner core, being 
refracted at each boundary. Unlike the notation used to describe p waves that are reflected by the inner core 
boundary, it utilizes a large  . 
I 
ANSWER:  
PKIKP 
 [or  
PKP(DF) 
] 
[10] This female Danish scientist was the first to observe PKIKP waves and used them to posit the 
existence of the inner core at a depth of approximately 5150 kilometers. 
ANSWER: Inge  
Lehmann 
066-13-83-11214  
15. The sea is a prominent topic in the work of many composers. For 10 points each: 
[10] This French Impressionist described the “Play of the Waves” and “Dialogue of the Wind and the Sea” 
in his orchestral suite  
La Mer 
. He also composed “Clair de Lune.” 
ANSWER: Claude  
Debussy 
[10] This composer of the massive  
Mass of Life 
 based his composition  
Sea Drift 
 on the poem \"Out of the 
Cradle Endlessly Rocking.\" 
ANSWER: Frederick Theodore Albert  
Delius 
[10] A theme from the overture of Mendelssohn's  
Calm Sea and Prosperous Voyage 
 was quoted in this set 
of fourteen works, which depicts Augustus Jaeger in the \"Nimrod\" section. 
ANSWER:  
Enigma Variations 
 [or  
Variations on an Original Theme for Orchestra , Op. 36 
] 
140-13-83-11215  
NASAT 2013     11     Page  9 of 11 
16. Answer the following about solving equilibrium problems, for 10 points each. 
[10] This tool, named for an acronym, is often used to calculate how much of a given reagent or product is 
present during equilibrium, given the starting amount. 
ANSWER: R 
ICE 
 chart [or R 
ICE 
 diagram; or  
ICE 
 table] 
[10] This letter is generally used to symbolize the equilibrium constant for various reactions. It is also the 
chemical symbol of potassium. 
ANSWER:  
K 
[10] This other quantity represents the instantaneous progress of a reaction at a given point. If it is greater 
than K, then the reaction is past equilibrium. 
ANSWER:   [or  
Q reaction quotient 
] 
020-13-83-11216  
17. This quantity, multiplied by the money supply, is equal to the price level multiplied by aggregate 
output. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity that Irving Fisher claimed was constant in the short-run. It represents the number 
of times a dollar might change hands in the economy. 
ANSWER: the  
velocity of money 
 [or the  
velocity of circulation 
; prompt on  
velocity 
] 
[10] This economist critiqued Fisher, arguing that the velocity of money varied with the interest rate, with 
the theory of \"liquidity preference\" found in his  
General Theory 
. 
ANSWER: John Maynard  
Keynes 
[10] Along with William Baumol, this economist developed a Keynesian model predicting the number of 
bank trips a consumer will make per year. His \"q\" is equal to an asset's market value over its replacement 
cost. 
ANSWER: James  
Tobin 
080-13-83-11217  
18. This poet quipped that scholars \"murder to dissect\" in one of his lesser-known poems, \"The Tables 
Turned.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this English Romantic poet better known for writing \"Tintern Abbey\" and \"I Wandered Lonely 
as a Cloud.\" 
ANSWER: William  
Wordsworth 
[10] This Wordsworth sonnet laments that \"getting and spending, we lay waste our powers\" and concludes 
by wishing for a sight of \"Proteus rising from the sea\" or the sound of Triton blowing his \"wreathèd horn.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
World Is Too Much with Us 
\" 
[10] In Wordsworth's autobiographical epic,  
The Prelude 
, the lines, \"Bliss it was in that dawn to be alive, 
but to be young was very heaven!\" describe Wordsworth's excitement over the beginning of this event. 
ANSWER: the  
French Revolution 
 [or obvious equivalents, like the  
overthrow 
 of  
French monarchy 
; do 
not accept the \"Reign of Terror\" or other specific parts of the revolution] 
080-13-83-11218  
NASAT 2013     11     Page  10 of 11 
19. Answer these questions about incursions on Flemish autonomy, for 10 points each. 
[10] Flanders's army crushed France in this 1302 battle, which is named for objects that the Flemish stole 
from the French as tokens of victory. 
ANSWER: Battle of the  
Golden Spurs 
 [or Battle of  
Courtrai 
; or Battle of  
Kortrijk 
] 
[10] This French monarch was humiliated at the Battle of the Golden Spurs. He later persecuted the 
Knights Templar out of existence and feuded with the papacy before its move to Avignon. 
ANSWER:  
Philip IV 
 of France [or  
Philip the Fair 
; or  
Philippe le Bel 
; or  
Philip I of Navarre 
; prompt on  
Philip 
] 
[10] Thirty-four years later, England embargoed this product to put pressure on Flemish cities at the start of 
the Hundred Years' War. 
ANSWER:  
wool 
 [do not accept \"sheep\"] 
104-13-83-11219  
20. In this novel, the Revolt of the Whores forces La Señora to abandon the title character. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this novel, whose title woman is conceived by Consuelo when she sleeps with an Indian 
gardener who was bitten by a snake. 
ANSWER:  
Eva Luna 
[10] This Chilean author of  
The House of the Spirits 
 wrote  
Eva Luna. 
ANSWER: Isabel  
Allende 
[10] This sometime lover of Eva takes on the name of Comandante Rogelio after becoming a guerilla 
leader. His associates include El Negro. 
ANSWER:  
Huberto 
 Naranjo [or Huberto  
Naranjo 
] 
186-13-83-11220  
21. This organization considered introducing Esperanto into the schools of its members. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this organization created in the wake of World War I. While attempting to promote peace, it 
proved weak and was unable to stop the simmering tensions that created World War II. 
ANSWER:  
League of Nations 
[10] The second Secretary General of the League of Nations, Joseph Avenol, later wrote a supportive letter 
to this man, the premier of Vichy France from 1940 to 1944 and one-time hero of World War I. 
ANSWER: Henri Philippe Benoni Omer Joseph  
Petain 
[10] This Norwegian explorer worked for the League as a High Commissioner for Refugees, winning the 
Nobel Prize for his efforts in 1922. He introduced a namesake passport for stateless persons. 
ANSWER: Fridtjof  
Nansen 
052-13-83-11221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     11     Page  11 of 11 
