VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The reaction of these things to stressful forces is called tenacity. Adding a drop of hydrochloric acid and 
seeing whether these things fizz can be used to test whether they contain carbonate. The color these things 
display in a powdered form is called streak. Their crystal lattice determines their properties of parting, 
fracture, and cleavage. The vast majority of Earth's crust is made up of the silicate type of these things. For 
10 points, name these constituents of rocks. 
ANSWER:  
mineral 
s [prompt on  
crystal 
s until \"crystal lattice\" is read] 
066-13-96-05101 
2. A poet from this country wrote a group of poems called  
Cradlesongs 
 in her book  
Tenderness: Songs for 
Children. 
 Another writer from this country wrote of Clara, who vows to never again speak to her husband 
Esteban Trueba (troo-EY-buh) after being slapped by him. The authors of  
Sonnets of Death 
 and  
House of 
the Spirits 
 were from this country. For 10 points, name this South American nation, the home country of 
the writers Gabriela Mistral, Isabel Allende (eye-EN-day), and Pablo Neruda. 
ANSWER:  
Chile 
030-13-96-05102 
3. During the race that determined the twelve Chinese zodiacs, this animal was saved by a log dropped by 
the dragon and arrived in fourth place. According to Japanese and Korean folklore, this animal can be 
found on the moon pounding rice cakes with its pestle. The German \"wolpertinger\" (VOLE-per-ting-gur) is 
the ancestor of the American belief in the jackalope, which is often described as one of these animals with 
deer antlers. For 10 points, name these animals that distribute colored eggs during Easter. 
ANSWER:  
rabbit 
 [or  
hare 
] 
227-13-96-05103 
4. This story's narrator measures out his room by attaching a torn piece of clothing to the wall and counting 
his paces along the perimeter. This story ends with the arrival of the French army under Lasalle. It occurs in 
a room whose walls heat up and contract. The Spanish Inquisition imprisons the protagonist of this story, 
who saves himself by attracting rats to chew through his bonds. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe 
story about a prisoner nearly executed by a periodically-swinging scythe. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Pit and the Pendulum 
\" 
080-13-96-05104 
5. This man presently collaborates with Nigel Shadbotl (SHAD-bot-ul) on a British government project to 
open government-acquired data to public perusal. Both of this man's parents helped operate the Ferranti 
Mark 1, the first privately built computer. This scientist created the ENQUIRE system to demonstrate 
possible uses for hypertext, and on his later stint with CERN, he made the first client-server connection 
over HTTP in November 1989. For 10 points, name this British computer scientist who invented the World 
Wide Web. 
ANSWER: Tim  
Berners-Lee 
019-13-96-05105 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  1 of 10 
6. In Washington state, John Braun introduced a measure to stop individual cities from changing this value 
after residents of SeaTac voted in 2013 to raise it. In a December 2013, speech, Barack Obama claimed this 
value in real terms was \"below where it was when Harry Truman was in office.\" Fast Food Forward aims to 
increase this value for fast food workers. Thirteen states increased this value at the start of 2014. For 10 
points, name this value that, at the federal level, is currently set at seven dollars and twenty-five cents an 
hour. 
ANSWER:  
minimum wage 
023-13-96-05106 
7. A painting depicting this deity sleeping is sometimes named after its city of residence, Dresden, and was 
finished by Titian after the death of its original artist, Giorgione (jor-JOH-nay). In another painting, this 
deity stands in an orange grove to the right of the three Graces, who are dancing. A woman reaches out 
with a red cloak to clothe this goddess while Zephyr and Aura look on in a famous depiction of her. For 10 
points, what goddess stands on top of a seashell in a Botticelli painting describing her birth? 
ANSWER:  
Venus 
 [or  
Aphrodite 
] 
140-13-96-05107 
8. A participant in this event described gauchos using weapons called  
bolas 
 to kill an ostrich-like animal 
known as the rhea. Another of its participants supported Charles Lyell's thesis by observing a white layer of 
seashells between black volcanic rock layers in the Cape Verde Islands. Observations of slavery and 
so-called \"savage races\" during this event led one man to write  
The Descent of Man 
. When this expedition 
stopped at the Galapagos Islands, that man described his finches. For 10 points, name this expedition 
aboard a certain ship that led Darwin to formulate his theories. 
ANSWER: second  
voyage 
 of the  
HMS  Beagle 
 [or obvious equivalents, such as the second  
expedition 
 of 
the  
HMS  Beagle 
; prompt on  
Darwin's voyage 
s or obvious equivalents] 
020-13-96-05108 
9. This former NBA player is the most recent player to win all three of the regular season, All-Star, and 
Finals MVP awards in a season. After playing a Christmas game in 2006, this player for the Heat called his 
former coach, Phil Jackson, a \"Benedict Arnold.\" A strategy that involved forcing this player to shoot free 
throws involved opposing players \"hacking\" this man. This player was drafted first overall out of LSU by 
the Orlando Magic in the 1992 NBA draft. For 10 points, name this center who won three consecutive 
championships with the Lakers and had a feud with Kobe Bryant. 
ANSWER: Shaquille Rashaun  
O'Neal 
 [or  
Shaq 
] 
023-13-96-05109 
10. This President appointed the Seneca Indian Ely Parker as the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. This 
man's Secretary of State, Hamilton Fish, settled the  
Alabama 
 claims affair in the Treaty of Washington. 
During this man's Presidency, Congress passed the Force Acts to combat the Ku Klux Klan. His Vice 
President, Schuyler Colfax, was implicated in the Credit Mobilier (MOH-beel-yay) scandal. While 
commanding the Union armies, this man received Robert E. Lee's unconditional surrender at Appomattox. 
For 10 points, name this eighteenth President, who succeeded Andrew Johnson. 
ANSWER: Ulysses Simpson  
Grant 
 [or Hiram Ulysses  
Grant 
] 
186-13-96-05110 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  2 of 10 
11. Net electric flux equals this quantity divided by the permittivity according to Gauss's law. The 
elementary value for this quantity was determined by balancing the gravitational and electric forces on an 
oil drop in an experiment conducted by Millikan. Current is the rate of change of this quantity with respect 
to time. The force on a particle is equal to this quantity times the electric field. For 10 points, identify this 
quantity measured in Coulombs, which is negative for an electron. 
ANSWER: electric  
charge 
226-13-96-05111 
12. Emile Durkheim's  
Elementary Forms of the Religious Life 
 used a test of social role to distinguish this 
phenomenon from religion. It was the last of three phenomena studied \"among the Azande\" 
(uh-ZAHN-day) by Edward Evans-Pritchard, who outlined a type of \"thinking\" known by this term, and it 
was grouped with \"science and religion\" in a Bronislaw Malinowski paper. According to James Frazer, this 
phenomenon always precedes religious belief. For 10 points, identify this phenomenon of manipulating the 
natural world with incantations and rituals. 
ANSWER:  
magic 
 [or word forms] 
019-13-96-05112 
13. This author wrote about a lawyer who wagers that he can spend fifteen years alone in a garden house in 
his story \"The Bet.\" This author created Ivan Voitsky, an estate manager who shoots at the gout-ridden 
professor Alexander Serebryakov (seh-ruh-BRAI-uh-koff). This author is known for his plays about 
wealthy landowners's unfulfilled lives, including one in which Madame Ranevskaya (rah-neff-SKIE-uh) 
sells her estate to Lopakhin. For 10 points, name this Russian playwright of  
Uncle Vanya 
 and  
The Cherry 
Orchard. 
ANSWER: Anton  
Chekhov 
080-13-96-05113 
14. The speaker of one of this man's poems concludes, \"He must be wicked to deserve such pain,\" upon 
seeing a \"stiff blind horse.\" That poem of his ends with the title character blowing his slug-horn before a 
foreboding structure. He also wrote a poem spoken by the Duke of Ferrara, who shows off the portrait of 
the wife he probably had murdered. For 10 points, name this Victorian poet who wrote the dramatic 
monologues \"Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came\" and \"My Last Duchess.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Browning 
014-13-96-05114 
15. Francis Dana declined to participate in this event, leading to the appointment of the future fifth 
Vice-President. The main participants in this event returned home, eventually leading to William Vans 
Murray taking over the proceedings. During it, an American called out \"No, no, not a sixpence!\" This event 
featured Charles C. Pinckney, John Marshall, and Elbridge Gerry taking offense to agents of Foreign 
Minister Talleyrand. For 10 points, name this 1797 scandal in which three French diplomats demanded 
bribes from an American delegation. 
ANSWER:  
XYZ 
 Affair 
052-13-96-05115 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  What quantity is the rotational analogue of force? 
ANSWER:  
torque 
1B.  What last-in-first-out data structure uses “push” and “pop” operations? 
ANSWER:  
stack 
2A.  What prophet is traditionally credited with writing the Book of Lamentations? 
ANSWER:  
Jeremiah 
2B.  What game show currently hosted by Drew Carey includes mini-games such as Plinko and Cliff 
Hangers? 
ANSWER:  
The  Price is Right 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is y in the solution to the system of equations: “y = x + 
3”, and “x + 2y = 9”? 
ANSWER:  
4 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. How many angles between 0 and 10 pi radians have a 
reference angle of pi over 4? 
ANSWER:  
20 
4A.  What law for triangles states that the ratio of side length to a certain function of the opposite angle is 
equal for all sides? 
ANSWER: law of  
sines 
4B.  What South Korean company has found success with its Galaxy line of phones but received mixed 
reviews for its Galaxy Gear watch? 
ANSWER:  
Samsung 
5A.  What thinker proposed the \"general will\" as the guiding force of societies in  
The Social Contract? 
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques  
Rousseau 
5B.  What is the name for the voice register above bass but below tenor? 
ANSWER:  
baritone 
6A.  What French novelist included  
Pere Goriot 
 (PAIR GORE-ee-oh) in his series  
The Human Comedy? 
ANSWER: Honore de  
Balzac 
6B.  What element with atomic number 5 is used to absorb neutrons in nuclear reactors? 
ANSWER:  
boron 
7A.  What bone of the human thigh is the longest in the body? 
ANSWER:  
femur 
7B.  What painting by Jacques Louis David shows a French revolutionary in his bathtub? 
ANSWER:  
The  Death of Marat 
8A.  In what type of chemical bond do atoms share electrons? 
ANSWER:  
covalent 
8B.  What state is the site of Omaha and is known as the Cornhusker state? 
ANSWER:  
Nebraska 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  4 of 10 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A circle has radius 10 inches. A sector of the circle has area 
25 pi square inches. In degrees, what is the measure of the central angle subtended by this sector? 
ANSWER:   degrees 
90 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If you flip a fair coin four times, what is the probability that 
exactly three of the tosses turn up heads? 
ANSWER:  
1/4 
 [or  
4/16 
; or  
25% 
; or  
0.25 
] 
10A.  What scale of hurricane strength classifies hurricanes into categories one through five based on wind 
speed? 
ANSWER:  
Saffir-Simpson 
 scale 
10B.  What radical leader of the Committee of Public Safety during the French Revolution was killed 
during the Thermidorian Reaction? 
ANSWER: Maximilien de  
Robsepierre 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This composer's Symphony Number 4 in D minor opens with a fast movement marked  
Lebhaft 
(LAYB-hoft). This composer was confined to an asylum after throwing himself into the Rhine in a failed 
suicide attempt brought on by syphilis. This composer included \"Traumerei\" (TROW-mer-ai) in a set of 
piano pieces called \"Scenes from Childhood.\" This composer's first symphony is nicknamed the \"Rhenish.\" 
For 10 points, name this German composer who wrote a number of famous pieces for his wife, Clara 
Wieck. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Schumann 
080-13-96-05117 
2. A large population of albino people lives on this lake's largest island, Ukerewe (OO-kay-RAY-way) 
Island. The Winam Gulf of this lake is the site of Homa Bay and the port city of Kisumu (kiss-OO-moo). 
James Ogwang brought South American weevils to combat this lake's problem with the invasive water 
hyacinth. This lake receives the Kagera (kah-GAIR-uh) River to its west, and is the source of the White 
Nile. For 10 points, name this East African lake that is the second largest freshwater lake in the world and 
the largest overall in Africa. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Victoria 
023-13-96-05118 
3. Although not carbon, the ring in the structure of lipoic acid contains two atoms of this element bonded to 
each other. Aconitase is an example of an enzyme in which atoms of this element form complexes with 
iron. The tertiary structure of proteins is helped in part by bonds between two atoms of this element, which 
is found in the amino acids methionine and cysteine. Anaerobic respiration in some bacteria releases a 
rotten-smelling molecule comprised of an atom of this element bonded to two hydrogens. For 10 points, 
name this element with atomic symbol S. 
ANSWER:  
sulfur 
 [or   until it is read] 
S 
140-13-96-05119 
4. A character in this novel has a dream in which he saws a child's wrist against the glass of a window to 
prevent her from entering his room. Another character in this novel dies in childbirth after a forbidden visit 
from her tortured soul-mate. This novel is narrated to Mr. Lockwood, the new tenant of Thrushcross 
Grange. The title residence of this novel is the childhood home of Catherine Earnshaw and the adopted 
orphan Heathcliff. For 10 points, name this novel by Emily Bronte. 
ANSWER:  
Wuthering Heights 
014-13-96-05120 
5. Napoleon Hill wrote the self-help book  
The Laws of Success 
 on the advice of this man. His own writings 
include  
The Gospel of Wealth. 
 His partner Henry Clay Frick hired Pinkerton troops to attack striking 
workers at one of his plants in Homestead, Pennsylvania. The world's first billion-dollar corporation was 
formed when he sold his company to J.P. Morgan to create U.S. Steel. For 10 points, name this 
Scottish-American steel manufacturer. 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Carnegie 
121-13-96-05121 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  6 of 10 
6. This poet drew on his experience as a nurse in wartime to write \"The Wound-Dresser.\" This poet 
described mourning after \"the great star early droop'd into the endless night\" in a poem containing a \"carol 
of death\" from a gray bird. This poet wrote, \"The ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is 
won\" in a poem that, like \"When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd,\" treats the death of Abraham 
Lincoln. For 10 points, name this poet of \"O Captain, My Captain!\" and the collection  
Leaves of Grass. 
ANSWER: Walt  
Whitman 
080-13-96-05122 
7. This technique comes in \"blue native\" and \"clear native\" forms, depending on the use of a 
triphenylmethane dye. Discontinuous buffers like tris-glycine are used to improve resolution in a form of 
this technique. This technique is one of the principal steps of the Southern blot. A staining agent used in it 
fluoresces orange under UV and contains bromine. Its pulsed-field form is used to separate extremely large 
molecules by size and charge. For 10 points, identify this technique in which an electric field is run through 
a polyacrylamide or agarose matrix. 
ANSWER:  
gel electrophoresis 
 [prompt on  
electrophoresis 
] 
234-13-96-05123 
8. A conflict among these people started when four girls fought over who was the true wife of William 
Brind. In less than a week, James Busby and William Hobson wrote a treaty signed by these people 
agreeing to British sovereignty. These people were decimated when an influx of firearms sparked the 
Musket Wars. In another conflict among these people, Pikauterangi (PEEK-ow-teh-RON-gee) was defeated 
at the battle of Hingakaka (HING-guh-KAH-kah). For 10 points, name these signers of the Treaty of 
Waitangi (why-TONG-ghee), the indigenous population of New Zealand. 
ANSWER:  
Maori 
239-13-96-05124 
9. A German expression for an indecisive person refers to being both in and out of these objects, and a 
romantic arrangement named for this item is a German expression for an older couple that lives together 
without marrying. Spanish vendors legendarily misplaced an accent on the word for \"Pope,\" printing 
thousands of T-shirts boasting of seeing what English speakers call this item. French refers to these items 
as literally an \"Earth apple,\" and the German word for one is \"Kartoffel\" (KAR-tuh-fel). For 10 points, 
what is this item that is a \"pomme de terre\" in French and \"papa\" in Spanish? 
ANSWER: a  
potato 
 [or  
potatoes 
, etc.; or die  
Kartoffel 
 until \"Spanish\" is read; or die  
Kartoffeln 
 until 
\"Spanish\" is read] 
019-13-96-05125 
10. Ernst von Freyberg is the president of a financial services institute in this country, the IOR. In 2014, a 
former accountant for that organization here was charged with laundering money for his home in Salerno. 
Paolo Gabriele stole documents from his employer here which he leaked to journalist Gianlugi Nuzzi. This 
country's leader decided to live in Saint Martha's House rather than the traditional apartments after 
replacing the first leader to resign in over seven hundred years. For 10 points, name this city-state led by 
Pope Francis. 
ANSWER:  
Vatican 
 City 
121-13-96-05126 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  7 of 10 
11. A constant represented by this letter is defined as one over the square root of quantity one minus the 
ratio of v squared to c squared and is named for Lorenz. Iron in the Pound-Rebka experiment emitted 
radiation named for this letter. It isn't pi, but a function named for this letter is an extension of the factorial 
for positive non-integers. A supernova may cause an extremely high \"burst\" of radiation named for this 
letter, which has the shortest wavelength of all forms of radiation. For 10 points, name this Greek letter that 
represents the highest level of electromagnetic radiation. 
ANSWER:  
gamma 
239-13-96-05127 
12. Forces led by this man's nephew Otto IV of Germany lost Aquitaine at the Battle of Bouvines 
(boo-VEEN). Maud of Braose (BROWZ) accused this king of murdering his nephew Arthur of Brittany 
and dumping his body into the Seine. Innocent III excommunicated him for opposing the appointment of 
Stephen Langton as Archbishop of Canterbury. He was forced to sign a document by rebellious barons at 
Runnymede. For 10 points, name this King of England and brother of Richard I who signed the Magna 
Carta. 
ANSWER: King  
John 
 [or  
John 
 Lackland] 
186-13-96-05128 
13. This character type is exemplified by the picaresque storyteller Barry Lyndon in a novel by William 
Thackeray. Controversially, Dr. James Sheppard, the killer in Agatha Christie's  
The Murder of Roger 
Ackroyd, 
 turns out to be one of these character types, which critics claimed was audience betrayal. Due to 
his immaturity, Huck Finn is one of these character types. For 10 points, name this type of literary 
character, a person who cannot be trusted while telling the story to the audience. 
ANSWER:  
unreliable narrator 
 [or  
lying narrator 
; or obvious equivalents] 
052-13-96-05129 
14. The McLaren Vale and Barossa Valley of this country are known for their shiraz wines. This country 
was the site of mines in the Golden Mile of its western city of Kalgoorlie. Polish explorer Pawel Strzelecki 
(struh-LECK-ee) was the first man to climb this country's highest peak, Mount Kosciuszko. This country's 
city Alice Springs is the nearest to the rock formation known as either Uluru or Ayers Rock. For 10 points, 
name this country that is the only one to also be a continent and whose western half is mostly made up of 
the Outback, which is the home of many kangaroos. 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Australia 
023-13-96-05130 
15. In this novel, McCann tries to persuade the protagonist to sign a political petition. The third chapter of 
this novel features a lengthy fire and brimstone sermon delivered by Father Arnall. Earlier, the protagonist 
endures traumatic experiences at Clongowes (CLAHN-gows) boarding school. At the end of this novel, the 
protagonist decides to exile himself from his native Ireland. For 10 points, name this partly 
autobiographical bildungsroman about Stephen Dedalus written by James Joyce. 
ANSWER:  
A  Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man 
014-13-96-05131 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. In a \"differential\" setup named for these objects, two of them exert opposite and unequal torques on a 
third. The acceleration in another system with one of these objects at its apex is proportional to the 
difference of two masses divided by their sum. Their mechanical advantage increases as more of them are 
used at once. An idealized Atwood machine contains two weights, a string, and a massless one of these 
objects, which are used in a block and tackle to lift objects. For 10 points, name this simple machine that 
consists of a wheel with a rope over it. 
ANSWER:  
pulley 
132-13-96-05132 
2. An isotope of this element is created when neutrons escaping from a fusion reaction hit lithium atoms. 
Lindlar's catalyst adds only two atoms of this element to alkynes instead of four. A \"standard\" electrode 
named for this element is used as a zero reference to compare other electrode potentials. An isotope of this 
element is found in heavy water while another isotope of it is tritium. For 10 points, name this element 
which is produced with oxygen in electrolysis, where water is split into its constituents, and that has atomic 
number one. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen 
 [prompt on  
deuterium 
; prompt on  
tritium 
] 
239-13-96-05133 
3. This leader described Vietnam as \"the rotten country\" and started a boycott of the European Economic 
Community that led to the Empty Chair Crisis. He pulled his country out of NATO in 1966, four years after 
he escaped an assassination attempt engineered by the Secret Army Organization. His presidency was 
weakened by a series of protests in May of 1968. This leader's government signed the Evian Accords to 
grant Algeria independence. For 10 points, name this first president of France's Fifth Republic, who led the 
Free French forces during World War II. 
ANSWER: Charles Andre Joseph Marie  
de Gaulle 
186-13-96-05134 
4. One character in this story refers to a home with a secret panel in which silver was hidden from 
Sherman's troops. In this story, a restaurant is advertised with a series of highway signs that read, \"A 
VETERAN!\" and \"THE FAT BOY WITH THE HAPPY LAUGH.\" That restaurant's owner, Red Sammy 
Butts, is insulted by June Star in this story, in which the cat Pitty Sing causes a car accident. For 10 points, 
name this short story in which a criminal called The Misfit murders a family on a road trip, written by 
Flannery O'Connor. 
ANSWER: \" 
A Good Man Is Hard to Find 
\" 
030-13-96-05135 
5. In this novel, the disc jockey Lenny Shepherd's dance with Doreen disgusts the main character. Dodo 
Conway is admired simply for having six children in this book, in which Philomena Guinea sponsors the 
main character. Buddy Willard breaks up with the main character in this novel. Its main character works as 
an intern for  
Ladies' Day 
 before being committed to an asylum following electric shock treatment from 
Doctor Gordon. For 10 points, name this novel about Esther Greenwood, a work of Sylvia Plath. 
ANSWER:  
The Bell Jar 
030-13-96-05136 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  9 of 10 
This is a calculation question. What is the only real solution to the equation “x cubed - 4x squared + 8x - 32 
= 0”? 
ANSWER: x =  
4 
What leader of the Green Mountain Boys teamed with Benedict Arnold to take Fort Ticonderoga? 
ANSWER: Ethan  
Allen 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2014     5     Page  10 of 10 
