NASAT 2012 
Round 19 
Tossups 
1. Emanuel Chabrier’s  
Souvenirs 
 is a quadrille on themes from this opera. Joseph Keilberth, Felix Mottl, 
and Ludwig Schorr von Carolsfeld all died while singing the lead tenor role in this opera. In one aria, this 
opera's female lead recalls saving someone who was mortally wounded in a barge. As it opens, a sailor 
sings of a “wild Irish maid,” which the female lead takes as a personal insult. “Golliwog’s Cakewalk” 
mockingly distorts a motive from this opera which features a half-diminished chord named for the first title 
character. The Prelude and Liebestod are often excerpted from, for 10 points, what opera about a pair of 
lovers from Irish mythology, composed by Richard Wagner? 
ANSWER:  
Tristan and Isolde 
 [or  
Tristan und Isolde 
; or  
Tristan and Isolt 
] 
020-12-59-19102 
2. The decay of polarized versions of these particles are used to explain the left-right asymmetry of the 
weak interaction in the TWIST experiment. They’re not electrons, but their anomalous g-factor cannot be 
explained by QED, a fact used as evidence for non-Standard Model effects. These particles decay into a 
positron, an electron neutrino, and namesake antineutrino with lifetime of about 2.2 microseconds, and 
were initially confused for pions after their prediction by Yukawa. Replacing the electron in hydrogen with 
one of these can catalyze room-temperature fusion because they are 207 times more massive than the 
electron. On earth, they mostly come from cosmic rays. For 10 points, name this negatively-charged 
spin-one-half elementary particle. 
ANSWER:  
muon 
048-12-59-19103 
3. This figure had a cult centered at the site of his death at which girls about to marry would offer locks of 
their hair. This man was reborn and lived the rest of his life in the grove of the nymph Aricia under the 
name Virbius. This man was killed when a bull summoned by a curse emerged from the sea and frightened 
his horses. That curse was one of three guaranteed by the god Poseidon to this man's father. This follower 
of Artemis rejected the advances of a woman who then hanged herself, his stepmother Phaedra. For 10 
points, name this son of Theseus. 
ANSWER:  
Hippolytus 
105-12-59-19104 
4. One scholar of this thinker identified an \"epistemological break\" between his early and mature works. 
His theories were applied to literary criticism by Gyorgy Lukacs. This thinker argued that markets cause 
people to fetishize the value of commodities, and divided society into a material base and a political 
superstructure. He wrote that workers provide \"surplus value\" for their employers in a book outlining his 
theory of historical materialism. He often used the slogan \"from each according to his ability, to each 
according to his need.\" For 10 points, name this German social critic, the author of  
Das Kapital 
. 
ANSWER: Karl  
Marx 
004-12-59-19105 
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  1 of 11 
5. These diagrams often display VNTRs and microsatellites next to each entry, and MERLIN is a software 
package used to form QTL analysis given one of these diagrams. The recombination frequency theta can be 
calculated using these diagrams. These diagrams are used to calculate LOD scores in linkage analysis. 
Triangles are used to indicate miscarriages in these diagrams. A double line is used to indicate 
consanguineous unions in these diagrams, which use diamonds to show sexually ambiguous persons. 
Roman numerals are used to separate out each generation in these diagrams, in which women are displayed 
as circles and men as squares. In these diagrams, affected people are usually a darker color. For 10 points, 
name these diagrams used to display family relationships and genetic disease. 
ANSWER:  
pedigree 
 [don’t take anything else, the term is really specific] 
048-12-59-19106 
6. This author wrote a poem identifying the title virtue with poverty and describing its role in the story of 
Jonah. This author also wrote a poem in which the narrator learns about the New Jerusalem from a maiden 
he identifies with the title lost object. This author of  
Cleanness 
 and  
Patience 
 also wrote a poem in which 
one title character breaks the rules of a game by keeping a girdle which supposedly grants invulnerability, 
for which he receives a nick on the neck rather than beheading by the other title character in a confrontation 
planned by Morgan le Fay. For 10 points, name this anonymous author of  
Sir Gawain and the Green 
Knight. 
ANSWER: The  
Pearl 
 Poet [or the  
Gawain 
 Poet before it is read] 
030-12-59-19107 
7. This man's followers included Oswald Myconius, who invited him to a job despite this man's admitted 
affair with a \"common strumpet.\" Leo Jud helped this man spark an outcry by publicly eating sausages. 
This opponent of an allegiance called the Five States was succeeded at the Grossmünster by Henrich 
Bullinger after being killed in battle during the Kappel Wars. He propounded his religious beliefs in the 67 
Articles, and argued for a wholly symbolic Eucharist at the Marburg colloquy, where he split decisively 
with Martin Luther. For 10 points, name this man who denounced Anabaptists in the cantons and was a 
Protestant reformer in Zurich. 
ANSWER: Huldrych  
Zwingli 
 [or Ulrich  
Zwingli 
] 
104-12-59-19108 
8. The protagonist of this novel lives in South End, which leads him to hire Mr. Seymour to build a house 
in New Land. One typist in this novel is the daughter of Jim Millon and is named Zerilla. It is revealed that 
this novel’s title character was taught Old Testament verses by his parents in a series called the “Solid Men 
of Boston.” In this novel, Persis disapproved of her husband’s treatment of Rogers, who was his former 
partner in the paint business. In this novel, a love affair ends when Tom Corey reveals that he loves 
Penelope more than Irene. For 10 points, name this William Dean Howells novel about the ascent of the 
title businessman. 
ANSWER:  
The  Rise of Silas Lapham 
149-12-59-19109 
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  2 of 11 
9. The target of this event wrote the posthumously published memoir  
Answer to History 
. Before this event, 
the Cinema Rex fire, which killed over 400, was blamed on the government. A pivotal moment in this 
event involved the shooting of protesters at Zhaleh Square. The target of this event underwent gallstone 
surgery at the Cornell Medical Center, prompting protests. The reform efforts of Shapour Bakthiar, which 
included dissolving the secret police known as SAVAK, did not placate religious conservatives. A few 
months after it took place, 66 Americans were held hostage after an embassy was stormed. For 10 points, 
name this 1979 event that overthrew Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and replaced him with the Ayatollah 
Khomeini. 
ANSWER:  
Iranian Revolution 
 [accept  
1979 Revolution 
 until \"1979\" is mentioned, accept  
overthrow of 
the Shah 
 until \"Shah\" is mentioned; prompt on  
Islamic Revolution 
] 
052-12-59-19110 
10. Gislebertus created a relief sculpture of this scene in the tympanum over the main entrance to Autun 
Cathedral. This scene is depicted in several frescoes of the Orvieto Cathedral painted by Luca Signorelli. In 
Giotto's version of this scene, Enrico Scrovegni presents Mary with the Arena Chapel. Another version of 
this scene shows a ferryman about to whack his passengers with an oar and depicts Biagio de Cesena with 
donkey ears. Daniele da Volterra covered the genitals exposed in that scene, which depicts its artist as St. 
Bartholomew holding flayed skin and is located behind the altar of the Sistine Chapel. For 10 points, name 
this scene painted by Michelangelo, in which Christ casts sinners into hell. 
ANSWER:  
The  Last Judgment 
080-12-59-19111 
11. The strength of one component of this phenomenon is measured as the difference in surface pressure 
between Tahiti and Darwin. Although not global warming, this phenomenon increases vertical wind shear, 
which adversely impacts the strength of hurricanes. That component is the Walker circulation. One of the 
strongest occurrences of this phenomenon, in 1983, marked the start of mass coral bleaching. This 
phenomenon causes a warm current to appear off the coast of Peru, preventing upwelling due to the cold 
Humboldt current. For 10 points, name this irregular cycle of warming and cooling in the eastern Pacific. 
ANSWER:  
El Niño 
-La Niña/Southern Oscillation [or  
ENSO 
] 
066-12-59-19112 
12. The Freeman Etudes for this instrument were composed by John Cage. Francesco Geminiani's treatise 
on this instrument used fingering notation re-introduced by Carl Flesch in his manuals. August Wilhemj's 
arrangement of Bach's third orchestral suite for this instrument is played entirely on one string. The “F.A.E. 
Sonata” was written for a player of this instrument, Joseph Joachim, who also revived Bach's “Sonatas and 
Partitas.” Rodolphe Kreutzer was the dedicatee of a Beethoven sonata for this instrument. Another set of 
solo works for this instrument is the  
24 Caprices 
. For 10 points, name this instrument played by Niccolò 
Paganini, which is higher than the viola. 
ANSWER:  
violin 
121-12-59-19113 
13. On the advice of a one-eyed stranger, this hero chose his horse by driving a herd into a stream and 
seeing which one had the least difficulty crossing. He dug a series of trenches along the path a monster took 
to drink at the river in order to lie in wait to stab it. After obtaining the fragments of his father's old sword, 
he reforged them into a weapon sharp enough to cut an anvil in half. This rider of Grani killed his old tutor, 
Regin, after attaining the ability to understand birdsong. The wielder of Gram, this man was killed by 
Hogni for abandoning Brynhildr, whom he rescued from a circle of fire. For 10 points, name this hero who 
slew Fafner, the son of Sigmund in the Volsung Saga. 
ANSWER:  
Sigurd 
 [or  
Siegfried 
] 
080-12-59-19114 
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  3 of 11 
14. This color gives the colloquial name for the  
Nomenclature of Organic Chemistry 
 book published by 
IUPAC. An indicator of this color is used to treat methemoglobulinemia; that is its \"methylene\" form. In a 
common laboratory demonstration, a colorless, alkaline glucose solution in a closed bottle turns this color 
when the bottle is shaken. The indicator Congo red unusually turns this color in acidic solution. The anion 
in prussic acid was named for being isolated from the \"Prussian\" pigment of this color. It represents 
nitrogen in CPK models of compounds. This is the color of anhydrous cobalt ions and of copper-ammonia 
solutions. For 10 points, name this color of many cyanide-containing compounds, also the color that litmus 
turns in basic solution. 
ANSWER:  
blue 
003-12-59-19115 
15. In this novel, one character bribes the servant Christophe to keep quiet about his late-night meetings. 
After mentioning this novel’s title character, one man is banned from the Countess de Restaud’s salon. 
One character in this work is arrested by Michonneau after killing Taillefer. That murder was committed so 
that another character can marry Victorine and is committed by Vautrin. This book’s title character dies 
blessing his daughters Anastasie and Delphine. The funeral arrangements for that man are made by Eugene 
de Rastignac. For 10 points, name this novel by Honore de Balzac about a doting father. 
ANSWER:  
Le  Pere Goriot 
 [or  
Old Goriot 
; or  
Father Goriot 
] 
149-12-59-19116 
16. This island’s foxes are infected with echinococcus parasite, which has since infected virtually all its 
streams and made water unsafe to drink. This island’s four administrative divisions are called Circuits, and 
its largest city is home to temporary sculptures at a yearly “snow festival.” This island is home to a caldera 
lake in its Akan National Park, and it lies south of the La Perouse strait. The south of this island is reached 
by the extremely long Seikan tunnel, which runs under the Tsugaru Strait. For 10 points, name this island 
whose largest city is Sapporo, the northernmost large island of Japan. 
ANSWER:  
Hokkaido 
104-12-59-19117 
17. The text  
Mirabilia Urbis Romae 
 was written for the benefit of these people. These people wore a robe 
called the  
sclavein 
, kept everything they owned in a single small bag called a \"scrip,\" and carried large, 
blessed staffs to fight off wolves. Some of these people sewed cockle-shells into their hats, while others 
received palm leaves and were therefore called \"palmers.\" Monks organized hostels to house these people, 
whose main destinations included Santiago de Compostela. For 10 points, name these people who traveled 
to holy sites in the Middle Ages. 
ANSWER:  
pilgrim 
s 
080-12-59-19118 
18. In this work, Lady Blarney and Miss Carolina Wilhelmina Amelia Skeggs do the bidding of the villain, 
and Timothy Baxter is another of his henchmen. Mr. Symmonds is an innkeeper in this work, in which the 
title character insults the thrice-married Mr. Wilmot with a lecture on monogamy. One of the title 
character’s children is tricked by Ephraim Jenkinson into selling a horse for a gross of green spectacles. In 
this novel, Mr. Burchell is revealed to be the uncle of Squire Thornhill, who abducts the title character’s 
daughter Olivia to enter into a false marriage. For 10 points, name this novel about the Primrose family, 
written by Oliver Goldsmith. 
ANSWER:  
The  Vicar of Wakefield 
030-12-59-19119 
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  4 of 11 
19. One section of this work discusses a fictional speech by Epicurus and asks whether we can infer that an 
unfinished building will be finished. Another section states that ideas are created through compounding, 
augmenting, diminishing, or transposing. Another section discusses the reliability of testimony, and argues 
that events that contradict the law of nature should be discounted. Besides that section, “Of Miracles”, its 
section “Of the origin of ideas” discusses the missing shade of blue. For 10 points, name this work about 
epistemology by David Hume. 
ANSWER:  
An  Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding 
048-12-59-19120 
20. A pioneer in this profession and namesake of a society of people who worked in this field was Judson 
T. Welliver. One member of this profession was called an \"intellectual blood bank\" and was named Ted 
Sorensen. While working in this profession, William Safire coined the phrase \"nattering nabobs of 
negativism.\" Peggy Noonan cited the \"Boys of Pointe du Hoc\" in commemoration of the fortieth 
anniversary of D-Day while working in this profession, in which she also coined the phrase \"Read my lips, 
no new taxes.\" For 10 points, name this profession responsible for orations such as Kennedy's inaugural 
address and George H.W. Bush's acceptance of the 1988 Republican nomination. 
ANSWER:  
speechwriters 
 [or equivalent answers] 
030-12-59-19121 
21. One character in this novel compares the supermarket to the Tibetan afterlife because it contains 
“psychic data.” In this novel, one of the protagonist’s sons cries for seven days without explanation. One 
of this novel’s characters, Orest Mercator, hopes to break the world record for longest time spent in a cage 
of poisonous snakes. The protagonist’s wives are all connected to the intelligence community except 
Babette, who discusses sunsets at the end of this novel. In this novel, Willie Mink sells the drug Dylar, 
which alleviates the protagonist’s fear of death. In this novel, the Airborne Toxic Event affects Hitler 
Studies Professor Jack Gladney. For 10 points, name this novel by Don DeLillo. 
ANSWER:  
White Noise 
079-12-59-19122 
22. This man passed a Matrimonial Causes Act, which removed the process of divorce from the purview of 
the Church of England. He publicly supported the Ottoman Empire against the threat of Muhammad Ali. 
This proponent of \"gunboat diplomacy\" said that a British subject should feel confident that the \"strong arm 
of England will protect him\" in the \"Civis Romanus Sum\" speech, which he gave after an anti-Semitic mob 
attacked a native of Gibraltar in the Don Pacifico affair. During his tenure, the RMS  
Trent 
 was seized while 
carrying two representatives of a country on which his country was dependent for cotton. For 10 points, 
name this British Prime Minister who served during the U.S. Civil War. 
ANSWER: Lord  
Palmerston 
 [or Henry John  
Temple 
, 3rd Viscount Palmerston] 
079-12-59-19123 
23. His first doctoral student, Melba Phillips, was fired from Brooklyn College for refusing to testify in 
front of a Senate committee about internal security; with her, he names a type of strip reaction. Using past 
research by Richard Tolman he and George Volkoff calculated the upper mass limit of a neutron star; with 
his advisor Max Born he approximated the wave function of a molecule. He referenced the Bhagavad Gita's 
quote of \"now, I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds\" after he oversaw the successful Trinity test. 
For 10 points, name this physicist, referred to as the \"father of the atomic bomb\" for his work in the 
Manhattan project. 
ANSWER: Julius Robert  
Oppenheimer 
088-12-59-19124 
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2012 
Round 19 
Bonuses 
1. Irnerio is a character in this work who uses books not to read but as material for his statues. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this novel in which a second-person protagonist discovers his initial difficulties in finishing this 
book are due to Ermes Marana and his Organization for the Electronic Production of Homogenized Literary 
Works. 
ANSWER:  
If on a winter's night a traveler 
 [or  
Se Una Notte d’Inverno un Viaggiatore 
] 
[10] This man wrote  
If on a winter's night a traveler. 
 His book  
Cosmicomics 
 is a collection of short stories 
that are based upon a single scientific fact and are usually narrated by Qfwfq. 
ANSWER: Italo  
Calvino 
[10]  
If on a winter's night a traveler 
 and  
Cosmicomics 
 were translated into English by this man. This man 
has translated several other Calvino works, as well as the essay collections and first four novels of Umberto 
Eco. 
ANSWER: William  
Weaver 
121-12-59-19201  
2. This surface technically has no boundary. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this three-dimensional pipe-like shape whose “outside” surface is also its “inside”. It can be cut 
along its plane symmetry to create two Mobius strips. 
ANSWER:  
Klein bottle 
[10] The Klein bottle and the Mobius strip both  
lack 
 this property, by which notions such as “clockwise” 
and “counterclockwise” are consistently defined for paths on a surface. 
ANSWER:  
orientable 
 [or  
orientability 
] 
[10] On some paths around non-orientable surfaces, this mathematical object reverses direction, meaning 
no outside surface can be consistently defined. This quantity is dotted with a function or field in the 
formula for surface integrals. 
ANSWER:  
normal 
 vector [prompt  
cross-product of tangent vectors 
 or similar answers] 
104-12-59-19202  
3. In response to the debate over this issue, the AFL-CIO circulated posters that said \"Stand with 
Wisconsin\" underneath a blue fist clenched in the shape of Wisconsin. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ability of unions to negotiate with their employers about wages, hours, and other issues. 
Proposed limitations on this practice led to a gubernatorial recall election in Wisconsin on June 5, 2012. 
ANSWER:  
collective bargain 
ing 
[10] This Wisconsin Republican became the first incumbent governor to win a recall election by defeating 
Milwaukee mayor Tom Barrett. 
ANSWER: Scott  
Walker 
[10] The morning after the election, a viral video showed an unhappy supporter of Barrett doing this action 
to Barrett. A similar viral video from June 2012 shows a far-right Greek political activist throwing a glass 
of water at a left-wing politician and doing this action to her live on Greek television. 
ANSWER:  
slapping 
 in the face [or  
hitting 
; or  
striking 
; accept other obvious equivalents] 
079-12-59-19203  
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  6 of 11 
4. In 1575, Queen Elizabeth gave this man and William Byrd a monopoly for the printing of music and 
music paper in England. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this English composer of the five part  
Salve Intemerata 
 mass as well as the  
Miserere Nostri 
. He 
also composed the forty-part motet  
Spem in Alium 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Tallis 
[10] This man composed  
Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis 
. A musical editor of  
The English Hymnal 
, 
this man also composed  
Fantasia on Greensleeves 
. 
ANSWER: Ralph  
Vaughan Williams 
[10] This Vaughan Williams piece was prefaced by its namesake George Meredith poem, which states, “He 
rises and begins to round/He drops the silver chain of sound.” 
ANSWER:  
The  Lark Ascending 
030-12-59-19204  
5. With Apsu, this creature gave birth to the deities Lahmu and Lahamu. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this primordial goddess of the ocean, a chaotic being personified as a dragon who was killed by 
Marduk. 
ANSWER:  
Tiamat 
[10] Marduk kills Tiamat in this Mesopotamian epic, named for its opening words, which mean \"when on 
high.\" 
ANSWER: the  
Enuma Elish 
[10] This god of freshwater was the first consort of Tiamat. After he planned to destroy his descendants, Ea 
killed him. 
ANSWER:  
Apsu 
064-12-59-19205  
6. Following the First Battle of El Alamein, this man relieved Claude Auchinleck of his command of the 
British Eighth Army. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this British World War II general who forced Erwin Rommel into retreat following the Second 
Battle of El Alamein. 
ANSWER: Bernard Law  
Montgomery 
[10] Bernard Montgomery was the lead commander of this airborne operation that sought to capture 
bridges over the Meuse and Rhine. The last radio transmission from Lt. Col. John Frost's regiment at the 
Arnhem bridge during this operation was “Out of ammo, God save the King.\" 
ANSWER: Operation  
Market Garden 
[10] This man supposedly introduced General Montgomery to General Russell Maxwell, commander of the 
US Army in Egypt at the time. This man's book  
One World 
 was written about his trip on  
The Gulliver 
. 
ANSWER: Wendell Lewis  
Wilkie 
149-12-59-19206  
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  7 of 11 
7. For 10 points each, name these terms from acoustics. 
[10] This term denotes a frequency ratio of 2:1, and rolloff of filters is usually described as \"dB per\" this 
interval. The term is taken from music, where it has a similar meaning. 
ANSWER:  
octave 
[10] Intensity in acoustics is usually measured in dB above this standard reference level, equal to 20 
micropascals. It is usually considered the lowest threshold of human hearing. 
ANSWER:  
sound pressure level 
 [or dB  
SPL 
] 
[10] This quantity is given by the Sabine equation, which states that it is proportional to volume divided by 
the product of surface area and the average absorption coefficient. It describes how long it takes for a sound 
to decay to inaudibility. 
ANSWER:  
reverberation time 
 [or  
RT 
60 
; prompt on  
reverb 
eration] 
003-12-59-19207  
8. Verginius Rufus declined acclamations to the Roman emperorship twice after defeating and killing this 
man. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Aquitanian who revolted in Gaul after securing the allegiance of the Hispanian governor 
Galba. 
ANSWER: Gaius Julius  
Vindex 
[10] Vindex's revolt was one reason for this emperor's 69 CE suicide, after which Galba succeeded him. 
This man with a flair for stage performance killed his wife Poppea and rebuilt Rome after the Great Fire. 
ANSWER:  
Nero 
 Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus 
[10] This historian, a secretary to Hadrian, accused Nero of starting the Great Fire of Rome in his set of 
twelve short biographies from Julius Caesar to Domitian,  
Lives of the Ceasars 
. 
ANSWER: Gaius  
Suetonius 
 Tranquillus 
104-12-59-19208  
9. The narrator of this poem sits in Fugazzi’s, listening to the “crack of doom on the hydrogen jukebox.” 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Allen Ginsberg poem that opens with the line, “I saw the best minds of my generation 
destroyed by madness.” 
ANSWER: \" 
Howl 
\" 
[10]  
Howl 
 was subject to an obscenity trial in which this co-founder of the City Lights bookstore was 
implicated. 
ANSWER: Lawrence  
Ferlinghetti 
[10] The third part of \"Howl\" makes continuous use of this refrain, which is followed by lines such as 
\"where you imitate the shade of my mother\" and \"where you're madder than I am.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
I'm with you in Rockland 
\" 
127-12-59-19209  
10. Dean Acheson agreed that this treaty would not be violated by practice exercises, assuming both 
governments were aware of such activity ahead of time. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this treaty that limited naval presence on Lake Champlain and the Great Lakes. 
ANSWER:  
Rush-Bagot 
 Treaty 
[10] The Rush-Bagot Treaty was signed after the conclusion of this war. 
ANSWER: War of  
1812 
[10] In another naval incident along the American-Canadian border, this ship was attacked by the British in 
1837 after it was used to arm the rebels in the \"Patriot Army\" of Rensselaer Van Rensselaer. 
ANSWER: SS  
Caroline 
088-12-59-19210  
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  8 of 11 
11. This novel centers on a matchmaker who is not very good at making matches. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Jane Austen novel about a member of the Woodhouse family, a “handsome, clever, and 
rich” woman who meddles in the affairs of her social circle. 
ANSWER:  
Emma 
[10] Emma’s main love interest and supposed rival of Frank Churchill is this elder brother of her 
brother-in-law. 
ANSWER: Mr.  
Knightley 
 [or  
John 
 Knightley] 
[10] One of the friends meddled with is this unsophisticated but educated woman, whom Emma convinces 
to reject Robert Martin’s first proposal until John Knightley convinces Emma otherwise. 
ANSWER:  
Harriet 
 Smith [or Harriet  
Smith 
] 
147-12-59-19211  
12. This city’s medina quarter contains a bustling central square called the Jemaa el-Fnaa. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this city which lies south of the Tensift River, the dominant city of central Morocco and the first 
of Morocco’s four Imperial cities. 
ANSWER:  
Marrakech 
[10] This largest Moroccan city was the site of a 1943 conference between Churchill, Roosevelt, and De 
Gaulle. 
ANSWER:  
Casablanca 
[10] This Moroccan city, which lies just across the Strait of Gibraltar from Spain, was a favorite of spies in 
the early 20th century because of its status as an international zone. 
ANSWER:  
Tangier 
s 
015-12-59-19212  
13. Practitioners of this art form used a pen called the  
qalam 
 and could create signatures called  
tughra 
. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this form of Islamic art, which was used to create beautifully-written manuscripts of the Quran. 
It decorates buildings like the Taj Mahal. 
ANSWER: Arabic  
calligraphy 
[10] Islamic calligraphy also decorates this structure, which was constructed by the caliph Abd al-Malik. 
The Well of Souls lies under this structure, and it marks the location of Muhammad's ascent into heaven 
during the Night Journey. 
ANSWER: the  
Dome of the Rock 
[10] This is the earliest-known calligraphic script used to transcribe the Quran. Named for an Iraqi city, this 
script was replaced by the cursive  
naskhi 
 script. 
ANSWER:  
Kufic 
 script 
080-12-59-19213  
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  9 of 11 
14. The Mundell-Fleming model predicts that this condition is impossible if a country also pursues an 
independent monetary policy and allows the free movement of capital. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this condition, in which a country's currency is pegged to another currency or commodity such 
as gold. It is the opposite of allowing a currency's value to float. 
ANSWER:  
fixed 
 exchange rate [or word forms] 
[10] Mundell-Fleming extends this economic model by considering balance of payments in an open 
economy. This economic model predicts the interest rate and GDP of an economy based on when goods 
and money markets are in equilibrium. 
ANSWER:  
IS/LM 
 model [or  
Investment Saving/Liquidity preference Money 
 model] 
[10] The LM curve comes from when demand for this quantity is equal to its supply. Demand for it 
decreases as interest rates go up, and is known as the \"liquidity preference.\" 
ANSWER: demand for  
money 
121-12-59-19214  
15. Name these Old Testament prophets, for 10 points each: 
[10] This man interpreted the “writing on the wall” and was cast into a lion’s den. 
ANSWER:  
Daniel 
[10] This man was known as “the weeping prophet” for predicting Babylonian invasion. 
ANSWER:  
Jeremiah 
[10] Along with Micah, this man prophesied during the reign of Hezekiah. The Jehovah’s Witnesses took 
their name from his book, in which he replies to God’s request by saying “Here am I; send me.” 
ANSWER:  
Isaiah 
015-12-59-19215  
16. The victors at this battle were a combined British, French, and Russian fleet led by Edward Codrington. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1827 naval battle, a decisive loss for the Ottomans and last major battle fought entirely 
among sailing ships. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Navarino 
[10] The Battle of Navarino was fought over the independence of this country. Its revolutionaries included 
Alexander Ypsilantis and Theodoros Kolokotronis. 
ANSWER:  
Greece 
 [or  
Hellenic Republic 
; or  
Ellas 
; or  
Ellada 
; or  
Elliniki Dhimokratia 
] 
[10] Five years after Navarino, this Bavarian prince was named the first king of Greece. 
ANSWER:  
Otto 
 von Wittelsbach [or  
Othon 
] 
015-12-59-19216  
17. This man delivered a lecture on Holderlin’s  
Der Ister. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this philosopher, who used the word \"gestell\" to describe the concept that lies beneath modern 
technology in his  
The Question Concerning Technology 
. He analyzed Van Gogh’s  
A Pair of Shoes 
 in  
The 
Origin of the Work of Art 
. 
ANSWER: Martin  
Heidegger 
[10] In this work, Heidegger attempts to determine the meaning of Dasein. It claims that the two modes of  
existenz 
 are authentic existence and inauthentic existence and that Care is the Being of Dasein. 
ANSWER:  
Being and Time 
 or [ 
Sein und Zeit 
] 
[10] Heidegger claims that our everyday existence allows for the fundamental structure of the Daesin to be 
have this characteristic. This characteristic is the primary mode of the Dasein and it denotes the Dasein’s 
meaningful being alongside other entities. 
ANSWER:  
Being-in-the-world 
 [or  
In-der-Welt-sein 
] 
149-12-59-19217  
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  10 of 11 
18. One story about this general tells of his requesting supplies, only to deny his own requests as 
quartermaster and then bring the matter to a superior's attention. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Confederate general who lead his forces to victory at the Battle of Chickamauga. 
ANSWER: Braxton  
Bragg 
[10] Bragg's troops found less success in the Chattanooga Campaign against the Union tropps of this 
general, who also seized Vicksburg. 
ANSWER: Ulysses S.  
Grant 
 (or Hiram Ulysses  
Grant 
) 
[10] This general was once sent to inspect Bragg's troops with the intended result of replacing him, but 
found the troops in good condition. Later on, he was unable to replace Bragg because of an injury he 
suffered at the Battle of Seven Pines. 
ANSWER: Joseph Eggleston  
Johnston 
088-12-59-19218  
19. This novel has one-word chapter titles such as “Metropolis,” “Rollercoaster,” and “Skyscraper.” For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel centering on the aspiring actress Ellen Thatcher, the immigrant Jimmy Herf, and 
dozens of other characters who try to make their fortunes in the title borough. 
ANSWER:  
Manhattan Transfer 
[10]  
Manhattan Transfer 
 is a novel by this World War I ambulance driver who wrote the anti-war novel  
Three Soldiers 
 as well as the  
U.S.A. 
 trilogy. 
ANSWER: John  
Dos Passos 
[10] Dos Passos also wrote the novel  
Adventures of a Young Man, 
 in which Glenn Spotswood becomes 
disillusioned with the Communist Party, is imprisoned as a Trotskyite, and dies on a party mission.  
Adventures of a Young Man 
 is the first novel in this other trilogy by Dos Passos. 
ANSWER:  
District of Columbia 
030-12-59-19219  
20. Using mismatched primers in this techinque is an easy method of site-directed mutagenesis. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this technique that is used to amplify a few copies of DNA. It was developed by Kary Mullis. 
ANSWER:  
polymerase chain reaction 
 [or  
PCR 
] 
[10] This polymerase is frequently used in PCR. Brock's isolation of this thermostable DNA polymerase 
eliminated the need to add a new enzyme during the thermocycling process. 
ANSWER:  
Taq 
 polymerase 
[10] This last step of the PCR cycle usually occurs around 72 degrees celsius. It is the stage at which the 
new DNA strand is synthesized, and it is extended in the final cycle. 
ANSWER:  
elongation 
 [or  
extension 
] 
149-12-59-19220  
21. This substance can be treated with sulfonate-containing ion-exchange resins to reduce its effect. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this substance which contains high levels of calcium and magnesium cations. Soaps are often 
less effective in it because they precipitate out with the cations. 
ANSWER:  
hard water 
 [prompt on partial answers like  
water 
] 
[10] One source of calcium ions is the dissolution of this ionic compound that forms limestone and chalk. 
ANSWER: calcium  
carbonate 
[10] Ion-exchange materials are often made from this microporous aluminosilicate mineral, which is also 
used in water purifiers and detergents. They are known as molecular sieves. 
ANSWER:  
zeolite 
s 
132-12-59-19221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 19     Page  11 of 11 
