National History Bowl 11 
Round 6 
First Quarter 
1. Those who obeyed this law wore medals that read \"paid.\" Old Believers openly abided by this law, 
which was an attack on perceived symbols of backwardness and non-European attitudes. This westernizing 
law was a part of reforms that also included the Table of Ranks and adoption of the Julian Calendar. For 10 
points, name this type of excise levied by Peter the Great against facial hair. 
ANSWER: Peter the Great's  
beard tax 
 [accept equivalents] 
026-11-31-06101 
2. While this empire was fighting Antiochus III, it massacred all the Greeks in the city of Syrinx. This 
empire moved its capital to Ctesiphon following an incident in which its general Surenas captured the 
Roman standards after killing Crassus at Carrhae. This Arsacid-ruled empire was eventually displaced by 
the Sassanids. For 10 points, identify this empire in present day Iran. 
ANSWER:  
Parthians 
 [or  
Arsacid 
 Empire before it is read; prompt on  
Iran 
ian or  
Persian 
 Empire] 
019-11-31-06102 
3. This theologian attacked the Church’s doctrine of substantiation, for which he substituted his idea of 
“remanence.” His patron, John of Gaunt, used his ideas to argue for more power for the state rather than 
the clergy. This man translated the Bible into vernacular English. For 10 points, name this 14th-century 
religious reformer, whose thought inspired the Lollards. 
ANSWER: John  
Wycliffe 
080-11-31-06103 
4. This character recalls being told of a “great quantity of driftwood” that would “burn like tow” by a 
Federal scout. This character evades musket balls and grapeshot by swimming with the current and reunites 
with his beautiful wife, but is ultimately revealed to have died by hanging. For 10 points, name this 
protagonist of Ambrose Bierce’s “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.” 
ANSWER:  
Peyton 
 Farquhar [or Peyton  
Farquhar 
] 
080-11-31-06104 
5. One of this empire's armies that was sent as reinforcements lost to Gaius Nero and was led by Hasdrubal. 
Cato the Elder frequently used this empire's name with the words \"delenda est,\" and it was destroyed in its 
third war with Rome. For 10 points, name this empire based around a North African city whose generals 
included Hamilcar Barca and Hannibal during its fighting in the Punic Wars. 
ANSWER:  
Carthage 
023-11-31-06105 
6. This man wrote  
On the Babylonian Captivity of the Church, 
 and also encouraged the prohibition of usury 
in  
On the Jews and Their Lies. 
 This man was given protection by Frederick III of Saxony after he was 
condemned at the Diet of Worms for a work in which he attacked the Catholic Church's practice of issuing 
indulgences. For 10 points, name this man who published 95 Theses. 
ANSWER: Martin  
Luther 
081-11-31-06106 
7. One leader of this empire was provoked into fighting a war after he was given an ultimatum by Bartle 
Frere. This empire's troops overwhelmed the forces of Henry Pulleine in a battle fought at the same time as 
a battle at Buffalo River. For 10 points, name this empire that fought against the British in battles at 
Isandlwana and Rorke's Drift, and which was led by such men as Dingane, Cetshwayo, and its founder, 
Shaka. 
ANSWER:  
Zulu 
 Empire 
023-11-31-06107 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. The Boring Lava Field underlies this city, home to such spans as the Glenn L. Jackson Memorial Bridge. 
One suburb of this city, Beaverton, is the home of Nike's corporate headquarters. This seat of Multnomah 
County is located near the confluence of the Willamette and Columbia Rivers. For 10 points, name this 
\"City of Roses,\" the home of the NBA's Trail Blazers and Oregon's largest. 
ANSWER:  
Portland 
, Oregon [do not accept \"Portland, Maine\"] 
026-11-31-06108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 6 
Second Quarter 
1.  
Attorney Wayne M. Collins opposed this action, which was carried out by agency that produced 
such films as  A Challenge to Democracy  and was headed by Milton Eisenhower. Advocated by 
General John L. DeWitt, it occurred in such places as Tule Lake, Heart Mountain, and Manzanar. 
Authorized by Executive Order (*) 
 9066, it led to the arrest of many Nisei (NEE-sey) and was 
photographed by Dorothea Lange and Ansel Adams. Its severity was lessened by the Supreme Court case  
Ex Parte Endo 
, while its constitutionality was upheld by  
Korematsu v. U.S. 
 For 10 points, name this 
practice by which FDR put Americans of Japanese ancestry in relocation camps during World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Japanese 
-American  
internment 
 [accept obvious equivalents; accept just  
internment 
 after 
“Japanese” is read; prompt partial answer] 
BONUS: Which senator of Japanese descent, who has continuously represented Hawaii in Congress since it 
became a state, won the Medal of Honor for his bravery in World War II? 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Inouye 
079-11-31-06101 
2.  
According to legend, this leader’s head was put in a jar of blood by Tomyris, the queen of the 
Massagetae. He supplanted an empire led by Astyages, establishing a capital at Ecbatana. He fought 
to a draw at Pteria with (*) 
 Croesus of Lydia, but he dealt the Lydians a final defeat by taking Sardis in 
the Battle of Thymbra. Xenophon wrote a biography of this ruler, who conquered Babylon, freeing the 
Jews from the Babylonian Captivity. For 10 points, name this father of Cambyses who defeated the Median 
Empire as the founder of the Achaemenid Persian dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Cyrus the Great 
 [or  
Cyrus II 
] 
BONUS: Cyrus conquered which Anatolian kingdom where coinage was invented? 
ANSWER:  
Lydia 
079-11-31-06102 
3.  
One member of this organization, Daisy Hernandez, drew some controversy after she expressed 
“brown relief” knowing that the shooter of Representative Gabrielle Giffords was not a Hispanic. In 
2010, this organization fired Juan Williams for comments made on ~Fox News~ in which he claimed 
that he gets nervous when sees Muslims boarding a plane. More recently, this organization drew 
criticism for a recorded 2011 meeting set up by (*) 
 James O’Keefe in which vice-president Ronald 
Schiller heavily criticized the Republican Party. For 10 points, name this radio station that the House of 
Representatives voted to defund in March 2011. 
ANSWER:  
NPR 
 [or  
National Public Radio 
] 
BONUS: What program, often heard on NPR, has been hosted by Garrison Keillor since the 1970’s and 
draws on the Scandinavian and German heritage of the Upper Midwest? 
ANSWER: A  
Prairie Home Companion 
064-11-31-06103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
These states formed such alliances as the Tohopesate and the Confederation of Cologne against a 
rival country. Albrecht of Mecklenburg opposed that rival country by leading some pirates called the 
Victual Brothers, who competed with these states for control of the Baltic under the name 
Likedeelers. These states finally defeated that rival country, (*) 
 Denmark, by forcing Valdemar IV to 
sign the Treaty of Straslund, which freed Visby and gave them control of the Baltic, including the port city 
of Lubeck. Sometimes the enemy of the Kalmar Union, for 10 points, name this medieval trade alliance of 
Northern Europe. 
ANSWER:  
Hanseatic 
 League [or  
Hansa 
] 
BONUS: Which city, which is also a German state, is referred to in official documents to this day as “Free 
and Hanseatic?” 
ANSWER:  
Hamburg 
079-11-31-06104 
5.  
The subject of this speech was a certain entity created at the suggestion of Dana Smith. It briefly 
attacked John Sparkman for putting his wife on a government payroll and was orated at the 
suggestion of Murray Chotiner. It was delivered at Hollywood’s El Capitan Theater and regarded 
allegations leaked to the press by Earl Warren’s camp, who were upset that Warren had been passed 
over for the Republican nomination. This speech was inspired by FDR’s “Fala speech” and was 
inspired by accusations of illegal (*) 
 funding during Dwight Eisenhower’s first presidential campaign. 
For 10 points, name this 1952 speech delivered by Richard Nixon named for his family dog. 
ANSWER:  
Checkers 
 Speech [prompt on  
Fund Speech 
] 
BONUS: Which governor of New York, who had earlier run for president, assisted Nixon with the drafting 
of the speech? 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Dewey 
064-11-31-06105 
6.  
This man was the target of plots by both Cnaeus Cornelius Lentulus Gaetulicus and Cassius 
Chaerea. In one incident, this man ordered the construction of a massive two mile long pontoon 
bridge across the Bay of Baiae after a soothsayer claimed he had no more chance of becoming ruler 
than of crossing the bay on horseback. This man was the son of (*) 
 Agrippina the Elder and had an 
incestuous relationship with his sister Agrippina the Younger. He succeeded Tiberius, was killed by his 
own Praetorian guards and had a name meaning “little sandal”. For 10 points, name this Roman emperor 
who preceded Claudius and tried to make his horse a consul. 
ANSWER:  
Caligula 
 [or  
Gaius 
 Caesar Augustus Germanicus] 
BONUS: What British pop star, who had a minor hit with the song “Remedy” takes her stage name from a 
nickname for Caligula? 
ANSWER:  
Little Boots 
064-11-31-06106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
Much of the early work leading up to this device's invention was carried out in the cellar of the 
house of the Sanders family, whose son the inventor privately tutored. The initial notoriety of this 
invention was due to Dom Pedro of Brazil's remarks after visiting its booth at an exhibition in 
Philadelphia. The  Boston Times  ridiculed it for giving \"awful and irresponsible power…to the average 
mother-in-law.\" The patent rights to this invention were given as a wedding present to Mabel 
Hubbard after William Orton of Western Union famously (*) 
 rejected an offer to buy them for 
$100,000. For 10 points, \"Watson, come here, I need you\" were the first words uttered over what device 
that electrically transmitted speech and was invented by Alexander Graham Bell? 
ANSWER:  
telephone 
BONUS: A coin worth 1000 forints was issued in 2008 by what country to commemorate telephone 
pioneer Tivadar Puskás? 
ANSWER:  
Hungary 
003-11-31-06107 
8.  
This site is often identified with Bakkah, which is said to be the location of the first mosque. One 
object located here is said to have been created when Ishmael kicked the ground while his mother 
Hagar was searching for (*) 
 water for him. Another object here is involved in a ritual called  
tawaf. 
 The 
aforementioned objects are the Well of Zamzam and the Kaaba, respectively. Natives of this site from the 
Quraysh tribe were defeated at Badr and the Battle of the Trench by forces led by a man who emigrated 
from this city to Medina. For 10 points, name this city which is the destination of the Hajj pilgrimage. 
ANSWER:  
Mecca 
BONUS: What ruler of the Mali Empire was famous for his pilgrimage to Mecca that he made with tens of 
thousands of followers? 
ANSWER:  
Mansa Musa 
024-11-31-06108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 6 
Third Quarter 
FASHION 
Identify the following clothes, accessories, or hairstyles. 
A. An artificial hairpiece, often powdered white in the eighteenth century. 
ANSWER: peri 
wig 
B. A two-piece swimsuit first exhibited in 1946. 
ANSWER:  
bikini 
C. A rounded hat worn by the cast of  
Waiting for Godot 
. 
ANSWER:  
bowler 
 hat 
D. Tight breeches notably not worn by working-class French revolutionaries. 
ANSWER:  
culotte 
s [accept  
sans culottes 
] 
E. A 1920's hairstyle that allowed women to fit their hair under cloche hats. 
ANSWER:  
bob 
F. A simple necktie knot that first became popular in Victorian England. 
ANSWER:  
four-in-hand 
G. A traditional Manchu dress made form-fitting in 1920's Shanghai. 
ANSWER:  
qipao 
 [or  
cheongsam 
] 
H. Underwear that extended the side width of skirts, such as those worn by Marie Antoinette. 
ANSWER:  
pannier 
s 
003-11-31-0610-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
IN SOVIET RUSSIA 
Identify these important individuals and events from the early Soviet Union. 
A. The founder and first leader of the Soviet Union. 
ANSWER: Vladimir Ilyich  
Lenin 
 [or Vladimir Ilyich  
Ulyanov 
] 
B. The founder of the Red Army, assassinated in Mexico in 1940. 
ANSWER: Leon  
Trotsky 
 [or Lev Davidovich  
Bronshtein 
] 
C. The leader of the Russian provisional government overthrown by the Bolsheviks in the October 
Revolution. 
ANSWER: Alexander Fyodorovich  
Kerensky 
D. The Soviet Marshal known for his defense of Stalingrad during World War II. 
ANSWER: Georgy Konstantinovich  
Zhukov 
E. The Soviet Minister who signed a non-aggression with Joachim von Ribbentrop in 1939. 
ANSWER: Vyacheslav Mikhailovich  
Molotov 
F. The reforms installed by Lenin in 1921 which allowed for small amounts of capitalist elements in the 
Soviet economy. 
ANSWER:  
New Economic Policy 
 [or  
NEP 
; or  
Novaya Ekonomicheskaya Politika 
] 
G. The Soviet biologist whose fraudulent methods of agriculture were employed during Stalin’s rule. 
ANSWER: Trofim Denosovich  
Lysenko 
H. The Soviet Minister of Defense following the death of Stalin who was forced out of power after trying 
to depose Khrushchev. 
ANSWER: Nikolai Alexandrovich  
Bulganin 
064-11-31-0610-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
SPANISH CIVIL WAR 
Identify these things related to the Spanish Civil War. 
A. The head of the Nationalist forces and ruler of Spain from 1939-1975. 
ANSWER: Francisco  
Franco 
B. The current king of Spain who succeeded Franco upon his death. 
ANSWER:  
Juan Carlos 
 I of Spain 
C. The third largest city in Spain, used as the capital for Republican forces during the war. 
ANSWER:  
Valencia 
D. The name for the Spanish fascist movement, taking it’s from an ancient Greek battle formation. 
ANSWER:  
Falange 
E. The volunteer brigade of Americans during the war. 
ANSWER:  
Abraham Lincoln 
 Brigade 
F. The largest city in the Basque Country, the site of heavy fighting during the war. 
ANSWER:  
Bilbao 
G. The Spanish appointed by King Alfonso XIII who ruled during most of the 1920’s. 
ANSWER: Miguel  
Primo de Rivera 
H. The Hungarian artist who took the photograph  
The Falling Soldier 
 during the war. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Capa 
 [or Endre Erno  
Friedmann 
] 
064-11-31-0610-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 6 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
According to legend, anybody who illegitimately put on the crown of this kingdom would die 
within a year. That curse is blamed for the death of a Nazi governor during World War II. This 
kingdom was first ruled by the Premyslid dynasty. Under King (+)  Ottokar the Great, this kingdom 
briefly had a coastline on the Adriatic sea, but lost it at the Battle of Marchfeld, where it was 
defeated by its two neighbors, Austria and Hungary. Despite being part of the Holy Roman Empire, 
most of the people in this kingdom spoke a Slavic language, and several of its kings were named (*) 
Wenceslaus. For 10 points, name this kingdom whose capital was Prague, which shares its name with the 
major geographic region of the Czech Republic. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Bohemia 
021-11-31-06101 
2.  
This government kept track of student grades because it planned to use them as the basis of a 
selective human breeding program. This government launched the Vel'd'hiv raids, an attempt to 
arrest all of the (+)  Jews in its capital. This government sent many of those Jews to the Drancy 
concentration camp. Led in part by Prime Minister Laval, this government adopted the slogan 
\"Work, Family, Fatherland\", a play on the country's previous logo of (*) 
 \"Liberty, Equality, 
Brotherhood.\" This government was led by a former general from World War One, Philippe Petain, and 
was opposed by the Free French of General DeGaulle. For 10 points, name this fascist government that 
ruled France after its surrender in World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Vichy 
 France  [or  
Vichy 
 Government; or similar answers mentioning  
Vichy 
] 
021-11-31-06102 
3.  
One political cartoon shows this US President dressed as a nanny and being handed a baby by his 
predecessor. This US President lost support after he made the controversial Winona Speech, in 
which he defended the unpopular (+)  Payne-Aldrich Tariff, which he signed into law. Along with his 
Secretary of State, Philander Knox, this man proposed a foreign policy that focused on American 
economic rather than military power, called \"dollar diplomacy\". This man defeated William 
Jennings Bryan in his first election, but in his re-election campaign finished in third place behind the 
(*) 
 Bull Moose Party. For 10 points, name this successor to Theodore Roosevelt, the fattest President. 
ANSWER: William Howard  
Taft 
021-11-31-06103 
4.  
With Dr. Theodore Roosevelt Mason Howard, this man organized a campaign with the slogan 
“Don’t Buy Gas Where You Can’t Use a Restroom.” This man was the inspiration for the writing of 
the play  Blues for Mister Charlie , a work by James Baldwin, and this man was the subject of the (+) 
Bob Dylan song “Only a Pawn in Their Game.” This man’s wife Myrlie wrote a book in this man’s 
honor entitled  For Us, the Living  and served as the chair of the NAACP’s board of directors in the 
mid-1990s. This man publicly investigated the murder of Emmett Till while serving as the NAACP’s 
first field secretary in (*) 
 Mississippi. For 10 points, name this civil rights activist who was assassinated 
by Byron de la Beckwith in 1963. 
ANSWER: Medgar  
Evers 
030-11-31-06104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
This man twice ran for leader of his political party, both times against Joe Clark. This man won an 
election against John Turner by using the phrase “You had an option, sir” in a debate. This man 
negotiated the unsuccessful (+)  Charlottetown and Meech Lake Accords, which were attempts to 
have his country’s constitution ratified by Quebec. This Canadian Prime Minister was succeeded by 
(*) 
 Kim Campbell, the first woman to hold the job. While in office, this man enjoyed good relations with 
Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan. For 10 points, name this Conservative Prime Minister of Canada 
during the 1980’s. 
ANSWER: Brian  
Mulroney 
021-11-31-06105 
6.  
This war started because of an attempt by the Helvetii tribe to migrate into the namesake 
territory. During this war, the winning general repeatedly built and destroyed temporary bridges 
over the Rhine river, to demonstrate his power and intimidate the Germans into not intervening. A 
major battle in this war occurred at (+)  Gergovia, while the final battle of this war was the 
unsuccessful siege of the fortress of Alesia. A first hand account of this war famously begins by 
noting that the namesake province is divided into three parts, and after this war the winning general 
crossed the (*) 
 Rubicon into Italy. For 10 points, name this war in which Vercingetorix was defeated by 
Julius Caesar, and in which the Roman Republic conquered modern France. 
ANSWER:  
Gallic War 
s 
021-11-31-06106 
7.  
In James K. Polk’s cabinet, this position was held by George Bancroft, who is more famous for 
writing a multi-volume history of the United States. In the Confederate cabinet of Jefferson Davis, 
this post was held by Stephen (+)  Mallory. This cabinet post was first held by Benjamin Stoddert in 
the administration of John Adams. In Lincoln’s cabinet, this position was held by Gideon Welles, 
who brought in the Swedish engineer John Ericsson to build the first (*) 
 rotating gun turret and an 
object nicknamed the “Yankee Cheese Box”. For 10 points, name this cabinet position, responsible for an 
academy in Annapolis and for objects like the USS Monitor and other warships. 
ANSWER:  
Secretary of the Navy 
021-11-31-06107 
8.  
This general successfully executed Operation Cartwheel during World War II, and later he 
planned the last major amphibious assault in history, the (+)  Inchon Landing. In one role, this man 
wrote a national constitution whose most famous part was Article 9, which banned offensive war. In 
his last assignment, this general defended the government of Syngman Rhee. This general was (*) 
fired for criticizing the President during the Korean War, after which he said “old soldiers never die, they 
just fade away.” For 10 points, name this US general who governed Japan after the end of World War II 
and famously said “I shall return” in the Philippines. 
ANSWER: Douglas  
MacArthur 
021-11-31-06108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 6     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
