NASAT 2012 
Round 15 
Tossups 
1. Predicting war, this work’s title character says, “The new world has begun and the new world will be 
terrible for those clinging to the old. What will you do?” Earlier, the protagonist inadvertently paints the 
title character’s face while attempting to depict a woman he dubs Beatrice. The protagonist of this novel 
stares at a fire with an organist he first listens to while sitting on a street curb. The protagonist befriends 
Pistorius before he is introduced to the worship of Abraxas by the title schoolmate and fellow bearer of the 
mark of Cain. For 10 points, name this novel about Emil Sinclair’s youth, a work of Hermann Hesse. 
ANSWER:  
Demian 
014-12-59-15102 
2. Shortly after coming to power, this leader gave a speech at Bordeaux saying that his government \"means 
peace.\" This leader approved the Falloux Law, which gave the Catholic Church power over education. His 
Saint-Simonian supporters created the Credit Mobilier Bank. This ruler was targeted for assassination by 
one of the Carbonari, Felice Orsini. By marrying the Spanish noblewoman Eugenie de Montijo \"for love,\" 
this man gained popularity. In a move that angered the Russians, he claimed to be the protector of 
Christians in the Ottoman Empire. His rule collapsed after he was captured at the Battle of Sedan, which 
cemented his defeat in the Franco-Prussian War. For 10 points, name this man who ended the Second 
Republic to become emperor of France. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon III 
 of France [or Charles  
Louis-Napoleon 
 Bonaparte; do not accept \"Napoleon\" or 
\"Napoleon Bonaparte\"] 
080-12-59-15103 
3. To treat patients' phobia of serpents, this man had them watch an actor pretend to fear a snake, but 
succeed in taking it out of a cage. This man came up with a triangular model in which behavior, 
environment, and personality all influence one another, which he called \"reciprocal determinism.\" He listed 
attention, retention, motor reproduction, and motivation as four conditions for effective modeling, and he 
developed the idea of \"self-efficacy.\" In his most famous experiment, this proponent of \"social learning 
theory\" showed children a video in which adults were either rewarded, punished, or not given any feedback 
after beating up the namesake object. For 10 points, name this psychologist, who conducted the Bobo Doll 
Experiment. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Bandura 
080-12-59-15104 
4. This composer included a passage beginning \"Oh for the Wings of a Dove\" in a setting of Psalm 55 
popular in Victorian England,  
Hear My Prayer 
. His compositions for solo piano include \"Bee's Wedding\" 
and \"Spring Song.\" Ferdinand David was the dedicatee of a work by this man that opens with a melody that 
\"gave [him] no peace,\" the  
Violin Concerto in E minor 
. An overture ending with a flute solo begins his 
suite of incidental music to a Shakespeare play, which also contains the \"Wedding March.\" For 10 points, 
name this 19th-century German composer of  
Songs Without Words 
 and  
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
. 
ANSWER: Felix  
Mendelssohn 
080-12-59-15105 
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  1 of 13 
5. Regarding this man’s allegations of the Pentagon misstating funding requirements, Joint Chiefs 
Chairman Martin Dempsey wrote that he was \"calling us, collectively, liars.\" This man was a former 
consultant for his family’s eathmoving business and represents Janesville in Congress. He was the target of 
a letter signed by ninety faculty members at Georgetown, where he gave a speech defending his 
concordance with Catholic social teaching. This man requires his staff to read  
Atlas Shrugged 
 and is the 
principle architect of the “Roadmap for America’s Future” as an alternative to President Obama’s 
proposed budget. For 10 points, name this chairman of the House Budget Committee, a Wisconsin 
Republican. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Ryan 
030-12-59-15106 
6. The von Mangoldt function returns this value if the input is not a power of a prime. The Legendre 
symbol returns this value if the numerator is a multiple of the prime denominator. The Mobius function 
returns this value if the input is not square-free. This value is used to denote the absorbing element of a 
semigroup or semiring. The Riemann zeta fuction takes this value at all negative even integers, though it is 
an open question whether all of the other such values all have real part one-half. This value is returned 
when a number is added to its additive inverse. For 10 points, name this only non-positive and non-negative 
integer, the additive identity. 
ANSWER:  
zero 
048-12-59-15107 
7. Immediately after this event, its performer traveled to Capernaum, then to the capital to confront some 
sellers of oxen and doves. The person responsible for this event stated “Woman, what have I to do with 
thee?” and “My time has not yet come” while performing it. One person noted that “you have saved the 
best til now” to evaluate the product of this event, which was drawn out of six stone containers used for 
ritual cleansing. Appearing only in the Gospel of John, this event is considered the first miracle of Jesus. 
For 10 points, identify this feat which took place at a wedding-feast at Cana, and was the miraculous 
creation of an alcoholic beverage. 
ANSWER: Jesus turning  
water into wine 
 [or obvious equivalents; or the  
marriage at Cana 
 or equivalents 
before it is mentioned; do not accept the miracle of the loaves and fishes, which is different] 
019-12-59-15108 
8. In one of this author's poems, the universe replies to a man's claim to existence with the statement, \"The 
fact has not created within me a sense of obligation.\" This author also wrote a poem in which \"many red 
devils ran from my heart and out upon the page.\" This writer wrote a poem in which a \"naked, bestial\" 
creature claims to like eating his heart, \"because it is bitter, and because it is my heart.\" This poet wrote 
\"Do Not Weep, Maiden, for War Is Kind\" and the poetry collection  
The Black Riders. 
 In one of his novels, 
\"the tattered man\" and Jim Conklin are among the companions of Henry Fleming. For 10 points, identify 
this author of  
The Red Badge of Courage. 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Crane 
126-12-59-15109 
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  2 of 13 
9. Computational tools for finding these entities include the synchronous transit and nudged elastic band 
methods. A theory named after them breaks down when explaining quantum tunneling below a crossover 
temperature. This entity will resemble the species that it is closest to in energy, according to the Hammond 
Postulate. This species is found at a local maximum enthalpy and is represented by a double dagger. One 
theory of these entities gives rise to the Eyring equation, a common alternative to the Arrhenius equation. 
An activated complex must become one of these entities before reactants can turn into products. For 10 
points, name this hypothetical species that corresponds to the activation energy of a reaction and is the 
point where the reaction is irreversible. 
ANSWER:  
transition state 
 [prompt on  
activated complex 
] 
003-12-59-15110 
10. During World War II, this region was held by the \"Gin Drinker's Line\" and was the site of the St. 
Stephen's College Massacre of wounded soldiers at a field hospital. This region was called a \"barren island 
with hardly a house upon it\" by Lord Palmerston, expressing disdain at Charles Elliot's choice to become its 
administrator. This region, which saw the outbreak of a namesake 1968 flu, saw an influx of traders from a 
neighboring protectionist country that transformed it into an \"economic tiger.\" Per the Treaty of Nanjing, 
this region was ceded to the British, who gave up their lease in 1997. For 10 points, name this wealthy 
island city-state that is one of the two Special Administrative Regions controlled by the People's Republic 
of China. 
ANSWER:  
Hong Kong 
 Special Administrative Region [or  
Xianggang 
 Tebie Xingzhengqu] 
020-12-59-15111 
11. This state’s vacation spot of Candlewood Lake was created by hydroelectric damming. Its two most 
populous cities contain shuttered gun factories from the Remington and Winchester companies. A town in 
this state whose Union Station clock tower reflects a historical clock company is Waterbury, and its most 
southwesterly county is Fairfield County. It formerly hosted America’s Lego brick factory in its town of 
Enfield, and P.T. Barnum got his start in this state’s most populous city, a site of urban decay called 
Bridgeport. For 10 points, name this state where Old Saybrook sits by the terminus of a namesake river, 
whose cities include New Haven and Hartford. 
ANSWER:  
Connecticut 
104-12-59-15112 
12. In this novel, riots break out when the black activist Uhuru Simba dies, wrongly imprisoned for the 
\"Granny Ripper Murders.\" One of its protagonists struggles to reconcile with his cancer-ridden father 
Changez, who forces a maid/concubine to dress up as his dead wife. In this novel, a character who fails to 
make money turning his vivid dreams into movies kills himself after throwing his girlfriend, Allie Cone, 
off a cliff. The two main characters of this novel begin to take on characteristics of Satan and the Archangel 
Gabriel after falling from an exploding plane into the English Channel. For 10 points, name this 
controversial book about Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta, which earned Salman Rushdie a fatwa 
from Ayatollah Khomeini. 
ANSWER:  
The  Satanic Verses 
080-12-59-15113 
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  3 of 13 
13. During this king's reign, barons lost the right of shrievalty and new taxes replaced the danegeld. Pope 
Adrian IV gave this man Ireland, to which this man sent Richard de Clare. He made every man responsible 
for the defense of England through the Assize of Arms. His claim to the throne was established by the 
Treaty of Wallingford. The use of juries replaced that of ordeals in one law passed by this man. Both the 
Constitution and Assizes of Clarendon were passed under this king. This man appointed his son, John of 
Lackland, as lord of Ireland. This man's reign saw the murder of Thomas Becket. For 10 points, name this 
husband of Eleanor of Aquitaine and father of Richard the Lionheart. 
ANSWER:  
Henry II 
 of England [or  
Henry of Anjou 
; or  
Henry FitzEmpress 
; or  
Henry Curtmantle 
; 
prompt on  
Henry 
] 
149-12-59-15114 
14. Subtypes of this vocal range included the Falcon and Dugazon in nineteenth-century France. A singer 
with this vocal range sings the aria “Casta diva” in Bellini's  
Norma. 
 In  
Gianni Schicci, 
 this type of singer 
threatens to commit suicide if not allowed to marry as they wish in the aria “O mio babbino caro.” Mozart's 
Exsultate, jubilate 
 was written for a castrato of this type, and another castrato of this type was Farinelli. 
Mozart's  
Magic Flute 
 requires a singer of this type to sing an F6 in the role of the Queen of the Night. For 
10 points, Natalie Dessay, Joan Sutherland, and Maria Callas are examples of what highest female voice 
type? 
ANSWER:  
soprano 
121-12-59-15115 
15. A coefficient named for this phenomenon multiples the difference of the oncotic pressures across a 
capillary membrane in Starling’s equation. One version of this phenomenon is governed by the Lambert 
cosine law, and it occurs when moving from high to low impedance in a transmission line. Along with the 
transmittance, the amount of power lost to this phenomenon is calculated using the transfer-matrix method, 
which is more general than the Fresnel equation. When occurring against a denser material, it changes the 
phase by one-hundred-eighty degrees, and when occurring on rough surfaces, this phenomenon is called 
diffuse. For 10 points, name this phenomenon whose namesake angle is equal to the angle of incidence, 
which occurs when a wave bounces off a surface. 
ANSWER:  
reflection 
048-12-59-15116 
16. After being exiled, this man became leader of the Encheleans in Illyria and sacrilegiously plundered a 
temple of Apollo. This hero served Ares as a slave for eight years. This man traveled to Samothrace as part 
of a quest that he and his brothers Cilix and Phoenix ultimately gave up on. According to a prophecy by 
Dionysus, this man and his wife became snakes as punishment for his killing of the snake that guarded the 
Castalian Spring. At his wedding, his wife received a necklace that brought misfortune on its possessor. 
This Phoenician husband of Harmonia sowed the teeth of a dragon to create the Spartoi, who populated a 
city in Boeotia. For 10 points, name this founder of Thebes. 
ANSWER:  
Cadmus 
 [or  
Kadmos 
] 
149-12-59-15117 
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  4 of 13 
17. Krogan and Weisserman developed a hypomorph library of these organisms, for which a library with 
all 6000 reading frames deleted is available. The sec proteins, which regulate vesicular transport, were 
originally discovered in it. Growing them on histidine-lacking media ensures that only those with a bait 
vector binding to a fish vector survive in a \"two-hybrid\" system named for them. Haploid cells in these 
organisms have mating type a or alpha. Hartwell and Nurse won a Nobel for their discovery of CDC genes 
in these organisms. A eukaryotic \"artificial chromosome\" can be produced using genes from these 
organisms. This model organism was the first eukaryote to have its genome sequenced. For 10 points, name 
this fungal model organism also known as baker's yeast. 
ANSWER:  accharomyces  
S cerevisiae 
 [accept  
baker's yeast 
 before it is read; prompt on  
yeast 
 before it is 
read; prompt on  
fungi 
] 
003-12-59-15118 
18. This man killed Joseph Chouinard in a duel for the hand of Singing Grass. This man was once 
employed as a hunter by William Bent, and he led forces against the Kiowa and Comanche at the Battle of 
Adobe Walls. During the Civil War, he organized the New Mexico Volunteer Infantry, which fought at the 
Battle of Valverde. Following an 1864 victory, he ordered 8,000 Navajo to march to Bosque Redondo in 
the Long Walk. This man gained national fame and was attributed with superhuman abilities after being 
celebrated in the journals of John C. Fremont, whom he guided to Oregon and California. For 10 points, 
identify this frontiersman who is the namesake of the capital of Nevada. 
ANSWER: Kit  
Carson 
 [or Christopher Houston  
Carson 
] 
030-12-59-15119 
19. Because this man slandered Guido Reni, Reni used his face as the model for a devil being crushed by 
St. Michael. Another depiction of this person was inspired by a still photograph of a nurse with broken 
glasses, blood running down the right side of her face, from  
The Battleship Potemkin 
. He allowed a 
different artist to paint his portrait after seeing that artist's painting of the servant Juan de Pareja. This 
patron of Gian Lorenzo Bernini wears a red cap and holds a letter in a portrait that inspired a series of 
\"screaming\" figures by Francis Bacon. For 10 points, name this pope depicted in a portrait by Diego 
Velazquez. 
ANSWER: Pope  
Innocent X 
 [or Giovanni Battista  
Pamphili 
] 
020-12-59-15120 
20. In one work by this man, the protagonist kills a reporter conducting a newspaper contest and marries a 
waitress to keep her from talking. That novel's title refers to a type of candy whose name “appears at the 
end of the stick at no matter what point it is broken off.” In another of this man's works, the narrator 
discusses Pascal with the police officer interrogating him about his role in the murder of the title character, 
whose innocence the narrator compares to a “dumb leper who has lost his bell.” In another work, \"the 
lieutenant\" eventually catches the man he is hunting by waiting near a dying American bandit, to whom the 
protagonist administers the last rites. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Quiet American 
 who created an 
unnamed \"whiskey priest\" in  
The Power and the Glory. 
ANSWER: Henry Graham  
Greene 
121-12-59-15121 
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  5 of 13 
21. In one account, this substance originated from the blood of a giant killed by Helios and took its name 
from the difficulty of that battle. Described as having a black portion and a white portion, this substance 
can be gathered only by gods. This substance enabled one figure to force his opponent at sword point to 
swear to his safety before he went to bed with her. This substance saved that figure from being transformed 
into a pig along with his men. For 10 points, name this magical herb which Hermes gave to Odysseus so he 
would be immune to the drugs and magic of Circe. 
ANSWER:  
moly 
014-12-59-15122 
22. This man's liberalism was the product of his Swiss tutor, Frédéric César de La Harge, and resulted in 
his lifting a ban on citizens of his country traveling abroad. He replaced the \"colleges\" system of 
governance with the Private Committee. This man's government was employing August von Kotzebue 
when Kotzebue's assassination sparked Austria to issue the Carlsbad Decrees. He sent an army to aid 
Prussia, which lost at Friedland, leading to this man's boarding a raft in the Niemen River, where he agreed 
to join the Continental System. For 10 points, name this signer of the Treaty of Tilsit who ruled Russia 
during the Napoleonic Wars and was succeeded upon his mysterious 1825 death by Nicholas I. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander I 
 of Russia [or  
Aleksandr Pavlovich 
; prompt on  
Alexander 
] 
019-12-59-15123 
23. This object belongs to a boy named Kenneth in the unpublished short story, \"The Ocean Full of 
Bowling Balls.\" One character throws an essay on this object in the trash because it was on the wrong 
subject, leading to a fight between him and his roommate. Jane Gallagher is the only non-family member to 
have seen this object, which is covered by poems written in green ink. This object belonged to a 
left-handed boy who died on July 18, 1946 of leukemia. That night, his brother, who now treasures this 
object, broke all the windows in the garage. For 10 points, name this object kept by Holden Caulfield and 
which was presumably used by his brother Allie to catch fly balls. 
ANSWER: Allie Caulfield's baseball  
mitt 
 [or Allie Caulfield's baseball  
glove 
] 
003-12-59-15124 
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  6 of 13 
NASAT 2012 
Round 15 
Bonuses 
1. This programming paradigm is based on data structures that are instances of classes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this programming paradigm that is used by such languages as Java. While Objective-C is in this 
paradigm, C does not conform to this paradigm. 
ANSWER:  
object-oriented 
 programming [or  
OOP 
] 
[10] This statement in object oriented design states that a subclass should be able to stand in for the class 
from which it was derived. For example, if I make a Matt Bollinger with rocket wheels, then the wheeled 
Bollinger should be able to replace the original formula Bollinger on a quizbowl team without any problem. 
ANSWER: Liskov  
substitution 
 principle 
[10] This feature of object-orientated programming allows the coder to restrict a user’s access to an 
object’s information. In Java it is accomplished by allowing the user to declare data as “public” or 
“private.” 
ANSWER:  
encapsulation 
149-12-59-15201  
2. Name these ranks within Islam, for 10 points each: 
[10] This term refers to the body of Islamic scholars learned enough to interpret  
shari'a 
. Their consensus is 
called  
ijma 
. 
ANSWER:  
ulama 
[10] These Islamic judges use  
fiqh 
 to decide cases involving  
shari'a 
 law. They are not to be confused with  
muftis 
. 
ANSWER:  
qadi 
s 
[10] A particularly respected Shiite cleric might attain this title, meaning \"sign of God.\" Current examples 
include Ali Khamenei, Ali al-Sistanti, and a woman, Zohreh Sefati. 
ANSWER: Grand  
Ayatollah 
080-12-59-15202  
3. This man claimed that the reinforced concrete of one of his buildings helped him to control illumination. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this designer of a holy building that, during the morning, is illuminated naturally through the 
shape of a crucifix that is left open in its east wall. He designed that Church of the Light in Osaka. 
ANSWER: Tadao  
Ando 
[10] This man designed the Kansai International Airport in Osaka, but collaborated with Richard Rogers on 
his best-known work. 
ANSWER: Renzo  
Piano 
[10] Piano and Richard Rogers designed this Paris building that includes a modern art museum and a 
library. It was named for a former French president and includes color-coded pipes. 
ANSWER:  
Pompidou Center 
040-12-59-15203  
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  7 of 13 
4. One work in this collection is written from the point of view of a prostitute buying paint from a vendor to 
redden her cheeks. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this cantata based on twenty-four poems from a medieval collection, such as \"Chramer, gip die 
varwe mir\" and \"Ave Formosissima.\" 
ANSWER:  
Carmina Burana : Cantiones profanae cantoribus et choris cantandae comitantibus 
instrumentis atque imaginibus magicis 
 [or  
Songs of Beuern : Secular songs for singers and choruses to be 
sung together with instruments and magic images. 
] 
[10] Orff's Carmina Burana is best known for a movement in which a goddess representing this trait, 
variable as the moon, always waxes and wanes. 
ANSWER:  
fortune 
 [or \" 
O Fortuna 
\"] 
[10]  
Carmina Burana 
 is grouped into three major sections; this middle section lies between \"On the Lawn\" 
and \"The Court of Love.\" It contains the pieces \"Olim Lacus Colueram\" and \"Estuans Interius.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
In the Tavern 
\" [or \" 
In Taberna 
\"] 
020-12-59-15204  
5. Name these figures of speech employed in Latin literature, for 10 points each. 
[10] In this technique, a poet uses extreme exaggeration for rhetorical effect. 
ANSWER:  
hyperbole 
[10] This technique, similar to metonymy, is the use of a part to refer to the whole. An example is Ovid 
using the word \"wheels\" to indicate a chariot. 
ANSWER:  
synecdoche 
[10] This device is the use of a phrase that puts a more important idea before something that 
chronologically precedes it. Virgil uses it in the sentence, \"Let us die, and charge into the middle of the 
fight.\" 
ANSWER:  
hysteron proteron 
080-12-59-15205  
6. This member of the Holy League gained Tournay following his wife's victory at the Battle of Flodden 
Field against James IV of Scotland. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this British monarch whose minister, Thomas Wolsey, fell out of favor for refusing to annul this 
man's marriage to Catherine of Aragon. 
ANSWER:  
Henry VIII 
 of England [prompt on  
Henry 
 Tudor] 
[10] Robert Aske was executed for helping lead this uprising against Henry VIII following his break with 
the Catholic Church and his dissolution of the monasteries. Pope Paul III tasked Reginald Pole with 
organizing assistance to this uprising. 
ANSWER:  
Pilgrimage of Grace 
[10] This man, who resigned following the confiscation of the annates, was executed for failing to take the 
oath of supremacy. This author of  
Confutation of Tyndale's Answer 
 was succeeded by Thomas Audley as 
Lord Chancellor. 
ANSWER: Saint Thomas  
More 
149-12-59-15206  
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  8 of 13 
7. This philosopher proposed that material objects were \"suggested\" by sensations rather than being the 
direct objects of perception themselves. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Scottish enlightenment philosopher who wrote an  
Essay on the Intellectual Powers of Man 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Reid 
[10] Reid wrote  
An Inquiry into the Human Mind on the Principles of 
 this faculty. Thomas Paine claimed 
that it was absurd for an island to rule a continent in a pamphlet titled for this faculty. 
ANSWER: \" 
common sense 
\" 
[10] Reid took the term \"sensus communis\" from this classical philosopher, who wrote the  
Tusculan 
Disputations 
 and  
De Amicitia 
. 
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius  
Cicero 
080-12-59-15207  
8. This man helped institute detente with the U.S.S.R. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Secretary of State who served under Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford. 
ANSWER: Henry Alfred  
Kissinger 
 [or Heinz Alfred  
Kissinger 
] 
[10] Kissinger and Nixon supported this Chilean dictator, who, in 1976, ordered the assassination of 
Orlando Letelier in Washington, D.C. 
ANSWER: Augusto  
Pinochet 
 Ugarte 
[10] Kissinger's Nobel Peace Prize win was to be shared with this Vietnamese diplomat; this man declined 
his part of the prize, as at the time there was no peace agreement. 
ANSWER: Le Duc  
Tho 
088-12-59-15208  
9. Answer the following about war poetry, for 10 points each. 
[10] This poet collected many of his war poems in  
Rhymes of a Red Cross Man 
. This \"bard of the Yukon\" 
also wrote a bunch of poems with folksy titles like \"The Cremation of Sam McGee\" and \"The Shooting of 
Dan McGrew.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Service 
[10] A mute soldier observes \"posturing giants dissolved in drifts of smoke\" in this World War I poem by 
Siegfried Sassoon. 
ANSWER: \" 
Counter-Attack 
\" 
[10] This Tennyson poem immortalizing a doomed attack during the Crimean War contains the refrain, 
\"Into the valley of Death rode the six hundred.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Charge of the Light Brigade 
\" 
020-12-59-15209  
10. This quantity is greater than or equal to the molecularity of a reaction’s slowest step. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this quantity, which equals one for exponential decay and zero for a concentration-independent 
reaction. 
ANSWER: reaction  
order 
[10] The overall order of a reaction is equal to the sum of exponents in the expression for this quantity, the 
rapidity with which a reaction occurs. 
ANSWER: reaction  
rate 
 [accept similar answers that mention  
rate 
] 
[10] For a first-order reaction, the half-life is equal to this dimensionless constant divided by the rate 
constant. 
ANSWER: the  
natural logarithm of 2 
 [or  
ln 2 
; or  
natural log of 2 
; prompt on partial; prompt on  
log 2 
] 
132-12-59-15210  
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  9 of 13 
11. Volund the Smith and his two brothers captured three of these beings and married them. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name these women from Norse myth, who took fallen warriors to Valhalla. 
ANSWER:  
Valkyries 
[10] The Valkyries served mead to these warriors in Valhalla. They feed on the self-resurrecting boar 
Saehrimnir while preparing for the final battle at Ragnarok. 
ANSWER:  
Einherjar 
[10] The Valkyries had the power to come to earth in the form of these animals. Achilles pummeled a son 
of Poseidon who was invulnerable to weapons until he turned into this animal. 
ANSWER: a  
swan 
080-12-59-15211  
12. For 10 points each, answer the following related to electrostatics. 
[10] The law describing the direct relationship between charge quantity and electric force and the inverse 
square relationship between distance and electric force was discovered by what namesake of the SI unit for 
charge? 
ANSWER: Charles  
Coulomb 
[10] This effect, wherein two objects with different electric affinities like rubber and fur are rubbed 
together and acquire net charge, was first described by Thales. 
ANSWER:  
triboelectric 
 effect 
[10] This type of electrostatic generator, in contrast with the Van de Graaff, utilizes electrostatic induction 
as two large vertical disks rotate in opposite directions to build up charge in Leyden jars. 
ANSWER:  
Wimshurst 
 machine 
147-12-59-15212  
13. Josephine Bonaparte was from this island. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Caribbean island of the Lesser Antilles, a French overseas  
departement. 
 This island and 
Guadeloupe were the only French possessions left in the Caribbean after the 1763 Treaty of Paris. 
ANSWER:  
Martinique 
[10] This volcano on Martinique erupted in 1902. A black man named Ludger Sylbaris survived this 
volcano due to his location in a prison cell. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Pelée 
[10] A pyroclastic flow from that eruption obliterated everyone in this former capital of Martinique. This 
rebuilt town on Martinique’s west coast is north of Le Charbet. 
ANSWER:  
Saint-Pierre 
104-12-59-15213  
14. In this painting, the N-word is scrawled on a wall splattered with tomato juice. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting that deals with racial integration. It shows three U.S. Marshals escorting the young 
Ruby Bridges. 
ANSWER:  
The  Problem We All Live With 
[10] One entry in this other series depicts a lone dissenter at a town meeting, while another one shows a 
family eating a merry Thanksgiving dinner. They were published in  
The Saturday Evening Post 
. 
ANSWER:  
Four Freedoms 
[10] The  
Four Freedoms 
 series and  
The Problem We All Live With 
 were painted by this man, noted for his 
iconic depictions of American culture. 
ANSWER: Norman  
Rockwell 
052-12-59-15214  
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  10 of 13 
15. In this novel, a group of children are transferred away from a correctional facility in a city to avoid air 
raids. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which the children are trapped in a village full of animals killed by an epidemic 
and are shot at when they try to escape. 
ANSWER:  
Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids 
 [or  
Memushiri Ko-Uchi 
] 
[10] This other novel by the same author follows the brothers Mitsusaburo and Takashi, including the 
latter’s revolt against the Emperor. Its author won the 1967 Tanizaki Prize. 
ANSWER:  
The  Silent Cry 
 [or  
Man'en Gan'nen no Futtoboru 
] 
[10]  
Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids 
 and  
The Silent Cry 
 were written by this Japanese novelist of  
A Personal 
Matter 
 who was influenced by his brain-damaged son Hikari. 
ANSWER: Kenzaburo  
Oe 
147-12-59-15215  
16. Sometimes, Romans and Christians didn't get along. For 10 points each: 
[10] To commemorate the thousandth anniversary of the founding of Rome, this Roman emperor, who 
ruled from 249 to 251, demanded that all citizens of the empire make a public sacrifice to the Roman gods. 
Many Christians who refused to obey his edict were tortured and killed. 
ANSWER: Trajan  
Decius 
 [or Gaius Messius Quintus  
Decius 
 Augustus] 
[10] The apex of the persecutions came under the reigns of Galerius and this emperor, who divided the 
Roman empire into two halves. 
ANSWER: Gaius Aurelius Valerius  
Diocletian 
us Augustus 
[10] This work graphically describes Nero's persecutions of Christians, along with other events between the 
reigns of Tiberius and Nero in the first century. 
ANSWER:  
Annals 
 of Tacitus [or  
Annales 
] 
020-12-59-15216  
17. One person who wrote about these places proposed that a Statue of Responsibility be built on the West 
Coast. For 10 points each: 
[10] Victor Frankl's  
Man’s Search for Meaning 
 was inspired by a World War II experience in what sort of 
place, which also inspired Bruno Bettelheim's  
Individual and Mass Behavior in Extreme Situations? 
ANSWER:  
concentration camp 
s 
[10] Frankl’s “logotherapy” is sometimes called the “third Viennese school,” following Freud’s 
psychoanalysis and the individual psychology preached by this man, who broke with Freud and developed 
the theory of the inferiority complex. He wrote the book  
The Neurotic Character 
. 
ANSWER: Alfred  
Adler 
[10] This existential psychologist argued that logotherapy was too authoritarian. He discussed the 
importance of the awareness of death in his book  
Love and Will 
, while his first book was  
The Meaning of 
Anxiety 
. 
ANSWER: Rollo  
May 
052-12-59-15217  
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  11 of 13 
18. One member of this family wrote \"A Plea for the West.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this family into which the author of  
Uncle Tom's Cabin 
 was born. Another member of this 
family sent rifles to Kansas, which were known as this family's \"Bibles.\" 
ANSWER:  
Beecher 
 [or  
Beecher 
's Bibles] 
[10] Lyman Beecher and Charles Finney were prominent figures in this religious movement. During this 
movement, western New York became known as the \"burnt over district\" due to the number of revivals 
hosted there. 
ANSWER:  
Second Great Awakening 
[10] Lyman Beecher founded the Lane Theological Seminary with the help of two of these brothers who 
also established the  
Journal of Commerce 
. Two of these brothers went on to found the American and 
Foreign Anti-Slavery Society after breaking with William Garrison. 
ANSWER: Arthur and Lewis  
Tappan 
 [or Arthur, Lewis, and Benjamin  
Tappan 
] 
149-12-59-15218  
19. For 10 points each, identify the following about cellular protein transport. 
[10] Proteins are transported through a \"pore complex\" in this organelle's membrane using importins. Other 
important factors in transporting proteins here include the GTPase Ran and NTF2. 
ANSWER:  
nucleus 
[10] The TIM and TOM complexes transport proteins in and out of this organelle. Though it has its own 
DNA, many of the proteins it uses, such as ATP synthase, are coded for by genes in nuclear DNA. 
ANSWER:  
mitochondrion 
 [or  
mitochondria 
] 
[10] This sequence, found by Munro and Pelham to be a C-terminal KDEL, marks proteins that need to 
stay in the endoplasmic reticulum. 
ANSWER:  
retention 
 sequence 
003-12-59-15219  
20. Maria Gostrey attempts to persuade one character in this novel to remain in Paris after his failure. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Mrs. Newsome sends Lambert Strether to retrieve her son Chad. Chad's 
sister Sarah ultimately succeeds in bringing him home to Massachusetts. 
ANSWER:  
The  Ambassadors 
[10] This author of  
The Ambassadors 
 also described a governess who attempts to save Miles and Flora 
from alleged ghosts in  
The Turn of the Screw. 
ANSWER: Henry  
James 
[10] In this short story by Henry James, John Marcher befriends May Bartram and spends his entire life 
waiting for something extraordinary to happen. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Beast in the Jungle 
\" 
105-12-59-15220  
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  12 of 13 
21. The antics of Dougal Douglas delay the wedding of Humphrey Place and Dixie Morse in this author's  
The Ballad of Peckham Rye. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author who described the May of Teck Club in  
The Girls of Slender Means. 
ANSWER: Muriel Sarah  
Spark 
[10] This Spark novel is set at the Marcia Blaine School for Girls, where Sandy Stranger has an affair with 
the art teacher Teddy Lloyd. The title teacher encourages Joyce Emily Hammond to fight in the Spanish 
Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
The  Prime of Miss Jean Brodie 
[10] This author included Spark's  
The Mandelbaum Gate 
 in a list of his favorite English novels. He created 
the ultraviolent Alex in  
A Clockwork Orange. 
ANSWER: Anthony  
Burgess 
 [or Joseph  
Kell 
; or John Anthony Burgess  
Wilson 
] 
079-12-59-15221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 15     Page  13 of 13 
