NASAT 2012 
Round 10 
Tossups 
1. Martin Chenmitz wrote one official rejoinder to this event, though the first historian to write about it was 
Paolo Sarpi, who drew on the works of French representative Arnauld du Ferrier. This meeting addressed 
the problem of unwieldy numbers of godparents by limiting each baptized child to at most one godfather 
and one godmother, and it ended plurality in Catholicism by mandating that bishops live in their sees. 
Before it briefly moved to Bologna, this meeting outlawed lascivious and complicated art works, and fixed 
the seven sacraments and the canon of the Bible. Called by Paul III, it lasted from 1545 to 1563. For 10 
points, identify this council of the Catholic Church which responded to the Protestant Reformation. 
ANSWER: the Council of  
Trent 
019-12-59-10102 
2. The person who developed this technique poked holes in the findings of the Lanarkshire milk 
experiment. Nonparametric alternatives to this technique include the Mann-Whitney U test and Wilcoxon 
signed rank test. Welch's version of this technique assumes that the two populations being compared have 
unequal variance. A \"paired\" version of this test is often used to analyze data taken from \"matched pairs\" 
samples. This test was first developed to measure the quality of Guinness beer by William Gosset, who 
published its description under the pseudonym \"Student.\" For 10 points, name this statistical test typically 
used when the data is assumed to be normally distributed but the population mean and standard deviation 
are unknown, a common alternative to a z-test. 
ANSWER: Student's  
t-test 
003-12-59-10103 
3. This man arranged the consulship of Afranius, who proved to be a failure because his only skill was 
dancing. This man drove the rebellious former consul Lepidus out of Italy. This man controlled Rome's 
corn supply for five years and won a consulship contested by Ahenobarbus, who objected to this man's 
awarding of the proconsulship of Gaul to an ally. This man was given proconsular authority by the Lex 
Gabinia to fight pirates. This man worked to restore Cicero to Rome and had earlier angered Crassus by 
taking credit for ending the revolt of Spartacus. For 10 points, name this member of the First Triumvirate 
who was defeated by Julius Caesar at the Battle of Pharsalus. 
ANSWER:  
Pompey 
 the Great [or Gnaeus  
Pompeius 
 Magnus] 
105-12-59-10104 
4. In this play, a mother donates a gift of jewels to the church, and wine surprises drunkards by flowing 
directly from the table. Monkeys guard a cauldron in this play whose title character visits the Eternal 
Mothers. Euphorion falls to his death in this play, in which Valentine is stabbed. Want, Blame, Need, and 
Care visit this play’s title character, who impregnates and abandons Gretchen, who drowns the child but is 
saved after she recognizes a character in this play who first appeared as a black poodle and prays. For 10 
points, name this play in which Mephistopheles unsuccessfully tries to claim the title character's soul, 
written by Goethe. 
ANSWER:  
Faust 
124-12-59-10105 
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  1 of 12 
5. A cathedral in this city contains a lunar rock in its stained glass “Space Window.” The 
Mausoleum-inspired House of the Temple was designed by John Russell Pope for the Freemason 
headquarters here. Pope also designed an art gallery in this city whose Modernist east building was 
designed by I.M. Pei. William Thornton was the original architect of the building at the meeting point of 
this city's four quadrants. Thomas Walter expanded that building, tripling the height of its center dome. A 
memorial designed by Henry Bacon here contains Daniel French's monumental statue of a sitting president. 
For 10 points, name this home to the Lincoln Memorial and U.S. Capitol. 
ANSWER:  
Washington 
, D.C. [or Washington,  
D.C. 
] 
121-12-59-10106 
6. World War I veterans in this country formed a far-right organization called \"Cross of Fire,\" which 
launched protests in response to the Stavisky Affair. In 1936, this country's Socialist, Radical Socialist, and 
Communist parties united to form a \"Popular Front,\" which passed the 40-hour work week under the 
leadership of its first Jewish prime minister. This country, which assisted Spain in the Rif War, sent troops 
to occupy the Ruhr and extract German reparations. In the 1920s, this country built a massive line of 
fortifications named after Andre Maginot. For 10 points, name this country which was nevertheless 
conquered by Germany in World War II and ruled from Vichy. 
ANSWER:  
France 
 [or  
French Republic 
; or  
Republique francaise 
] 
080-12-59-10107 
7. The instrinsic viscosity of these materials is related to their molecular weights via the Mark-Houwink 
equation. Adding a dispersant to these compounds lowers the glass transition temperature. There are comb, 
brush and block variants of them. In almost all cases, these materials have a relatively broad molecular 
weight distribution which can be quantified using the polydispersity index. Depending on their 
stereochemistry, they can classified as isotactic or syndiotactic. An aluminum and titanium material used to 
make a type of these materials is called a Ziegler-Natta catalyst. Teflon and styrofoam are examples of 
these materials that include plastics. For 10 points, name these macromolecules formed by repeating a unit 
called a monomer. 
ANSWER:  
polymer 
s 
064-12-59-10108 
8. In another of this author's stories, Vera meets an old friend whom she has not seen in six years, but walks 
out on him, leading him to request the waiter not to charge for untouched cream. One of this author's short 
stories ends with the protagonist stammering \"Isn't life--\" to her brother Laurie, unable to finish her 
sentence. This author wrote a short story in which a pear tree remains \"as lovely as ever and as full of 
flower\" after Bertha Young realizes her husband is having an affair with Pearl Fulton. This writer's most 
famous story involves the Sheridans, who ignore a neighbor's death to continue hosting the title event. For 
10 points, identify this New Zealand-born writer of \"Bliss\" and \"The Garden Party.\" 
ANSWER: Katherine  
Mansfield 
126-12-59-10109 
9. Plaques upon which members of this religion place prayers or wishes typically depict horses. Members 
of this religion are told to follow its “four affirmations.” Objects are dipped into a pot of boiling water in 
one of this religion’s dance rituals. One deity in this religion was banished after vomiting in order to feed 
the moon. Places of worship in this religion are maintained by a kannushi and are called jinja, inside which 
the honden can be found. This religion’s sun deity was born from the left eye of Izanagi and, after her 
brother Susanoo went on a rampage, hid in a cave. For 10 points, Kami are worshiped in what Japanese 
religion? 
ANSWER:  
Shinto 
ism 
149-12-59-10110 
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  2 of 12 
10. This character is compared to a plaster-of-paris bust of Cicero, and in a later conversation, he stares at 
that bust of Cicero rather than the man he is talking to. After this character enigmatically says, “Do you not 
see the reason for yourself,” another character believes that his eyesight has become impaired. Upon this 
character’s death, he is said to be sleeping “with kings and counselors.” This character starves himself in 
prison after steadily decreasing his activities with the repeated justification, “I would prefer not to.” For 10 
points, name this title scrivener of a Herman Melville story. 
ANSWER:  
Bartleby 
014-12-59-10111 
11. Several Irish monastic texts claim this practice was introduced by the Scythian king Fenius Farsaid. 
Ogma is another figure credited with creating it. In Chinese myth, millet rained down on earth and ghosts 
cried when a man with four eyes created this practice after being pressured by the Yellow Emperor. 
Hermes was inspired by the flight formation of cranes and the work of Palamedes of Nauplia to create it. 
Herodotus claimed Cadmus brought this practice to Greece. In Egypt, the ibis became a symbol of this 
practice because of its association with Thoth. For 10 points, name this practice which may use 
hieroglyphics or an alphabet. 
ANSWER:  
writing 
 [or  
alphabet 
 before \"Chinese myth\"; or obvious equivalents] 
121-12-59-10112 
12. A plot of this process in temperature-entropy phase space forms a perfect rectangle. Fuel cells can 
violate one theorem named for this process, and a quantity important in describing it is equal to W over Q 
sub H and is symbolized eta. Comparing it to other processes proves the equivalence of the Clausius and 
Kelvin statements of the second law of thermodynamics. One implementation of it uses a gas in contact 
with hot and cold reservoirs. Its efficiency is one minus the ratio of the cold temperature to the hot 
temperature. This reversible process has four steps, including both isothermal and adiabatic compressions. 
For 10 points, name this maximally efficient theoretical engine, named after the French scientist who first 
described it. 
ANSWER:  
Carnot 
 cycle [or  
Carnot 
 engine] 
132-12-59-10113 
13. One sculpture found at this site was found next to a gold disc that fits perfectly into the center of its 
forehead. A small bronze sculpture found in this site depicts a nude woman with her right hand on her hip 
and her left arm covered in armlets. Mortimer Wheeler claimed that 39 skeletons found with sword-cuts on 
their bones were evidence of an invasion here. This city, where the \"Priest King\" and \"Dancing Girl\" were 
discovered, also contained a \"Great Bath\" used for purification. For 10 points, name this \"Mound of the 
Dead,\" an archaeological site in Pakistan that was part of the Indus Valley Civilization, along with 
Harappa. 
ANSWER:  
Mohenjo-Daro 
080-12-59-10114 
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  3 of 12 
14. John Kenneth Galbraith attacked the “illusion” of this action in one chapter of  
The Affluent Society. 
Thomas Sargent showed that, assuming rational expectations, this type of action would be ineffective. 
Milton Friedman favored a “rules-based” approach to this, and also argued that this approach was 
responsible for the severity of the Great Depression in a book written with Anna Schwartz. In a liquidity 
trap, the conventional type of this action may be ineffective as the nominal interest rate can't go under zero. 
For 10 points, name this type of action intended to maximize employment and stabilize inflation, practiced 
by the Federal Reserve and contrasted with fiscal policy. 
ANSWER:  
monetary 
 policy [accept answers like  
changing interest rates 
; prompt on things like  
Federal 
Reserve policy 
 or  
government policy 
; do not accept or prompt on \"fiscal policy\" or \"Congressional 
policy\"; accept answers such as  
deflationary monetary policy 
 or  
contractionary monetary policy 
 in 
light of the Friedman clue] 
121-12-59-10115 
15. With Nick Lane, one player of this instrument arranged “Gabriel.” That artist is known for playing 
‘screaming’ with this instrument in the altissimo register and releasing the album  
Conquistidor 
. A cadenza 
on this instrument is followed by the entire band playing a chord in “West End Blues.” “Salt Peanuts” was 
recorded on a bent one of these instruments. In addition to Maynard Ferguson, players of this instrument 
include the leader of the Tijuana Brass, Herb Alpert, and Dizzy Gillespie. For 10 points, name this jazz 
instrument played by Louis Armstrong. 
ANSWER:  
trumpet 
124-12-59-10116 
16. During this government, the song \"Dying of Hunger, Dying of Cold\" was written by \"Conspiracy of the 
Equals\" leader and proto-communist Francois-Noel Babeuf, whom this government had executed. 
Two-thirds of the original members of this government had to come from the government that it replaced. 
One uprising against this government was put down by a \"whiff of grapeshot.\" This government sent 
Napoleon to Egypt and survived the coup of 18 Fructidor. Lazare Carnot and the vicomte de Barras served 
in this government's Council of Ancients, who worked with the Council of Five Hundred to pick this 
government's namesake group. For 10 points, name this French revolutionary government that suceeded the 
National Convention and preceded the Consulate. 
ANSWER:  
Directory 
 [or  
Directoire 
] 
149-12-59-10117 
17. This poet was brought to fame by a poem whose last stanza declares “the worst of woes” to be “to view 
each loved one blotted from life’s page, and be alone on earth, as I am now.” In another poem, he 
compared the glinting of spears to “stars on the sea, when the blue wave rolls nightly on deep Galilee.” His 
most famous lyric mentions “a mind at peace with all below, a heart whose love is innocent” in describing 
a woman “like the night of cloudless climes and starry skies.” For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of 
\"The Destruction of Sennacherib,\"  
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage 
 and “She Walks in Beauty.” 
ANSWER: Lord  
Byron 
 [or George Gordon  
Byron 
] 
014-12-59-10118 
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  4 of 12 
18. Because these organisms have low UDP-glucuronyl transferase, chloramphenicol can cause a syndrome 
in which they appear \"gray.\" The skin of these organisms is covered by a layer known as the vernix 
caseosa, and some are further covered by a layer of lanugo. They exhibit the Moro reflex and excrete a 
sticky greenish material known as meconium. These creatures must breathe through their nose because, like 
apes, they have a larynx located high in the throat. The health of these organisms is measured on a scale 
from zero to two in each of five categories, including skin color and muscle tone; that scale is the Apgar 
scale. These organisms typically feed on a steady diet of breast milk. For 10 points, name these human 
beings that have just been born. 
ANSWER:  
neonate 
s [or  
newborn 
s; or  
babies 
; or  
infants 
; or  
fetus 
; prompt on  
human 
s before mentioned] 
003-12-59-10119 
19. This colony was first ruled by a group of trustees who attempted to make colonists raise hemp, 
mulberries, flax, and grapes on their own while banning slavery. Lutherans fleeing Germany established the 
town of Ebenezer in this colony. The Battle of Bloody Marsh was fought in this colony against Antonio 
Barba's forces over control of several forts on St. Simons Island. After the trustee's rule, this colony began 
using slaves to raise rice and indigo. For 10 points, name this British North American colony founded by 
James Oglethorpe in part to help English debtors and also to protect South Carolina from Spanish Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Georgia 
105-12-59-10120 
20. This man designed the cover for the Red Hot Chili Peppers album  
I'm With You 
. He created a grid of 
colorful polka dots in  
LSD 
, one of his \"spot paintings;\" he also poured paint onto rotating circular canvases 
to create his \"spin paintings.\" Maggots devour a cow's head in another of his works,  
A Thousand Years 
, 
which impressed his patron Charles Saatchi. This artist of  
In and Out of Love 
 may be better known for 
creating  
For the Love of God 
, a platinum recreation of a human skull covered in diamonds. For 10 points, 
name this Young British Artist, whose  
The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living 
consists of a shark preserved in formaldehyde. 
ANSWER: Damien Steven  
Hirst 
088-12-59-10121 
21. In this novel, the protagonist becomes drunk while listening to a self-described follower of Helmholtz 
relate how he was forced to flee Germany after choking a cavalry officer. That meeting allows the 
protagonist to forget about Clif Clawson. The title character of this novel meets his first wife during a stint 
as a waiter in a Canadian hotel, and he marries the wealthy socialite Joyce Lanyon after that wife dies of 
the plague on the island of St. Hubert. With his wife Leora Tozer, the protagonist abandons the “true 
science” and moves to the city of Nautilus before he joins the research team that isolates a bacteriophage to 
kill pneumonia at the behest of his mentor Max Gottlieb. For 10 points, name this novel about a doctor by 
Sinclair Lewis. 
ANSWER:  
Arrowsmith 
020-12-59-10122 
22. These cells are encouraged to proliferate by a protein that is inhibited by Blisibimod and Belimumab. 
During their development they express Bruton's tyrosine kinase and rely on the Pax5 transcription factor. 
The only cells of this type to depend on Notch-2 signaling are those formed in the marginal zone of the 
spleen. Since naive mature ones only produce IgM and IgD, they must undergo class switching in order to 
produce other immunoglobulins. One class of these cells has abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and 
are formed in the bone marrow before becoming the \"plasma\" type. Following primary infection, the 
memory type is formed as well. For 10 points, name these lymphocytes involved in the humoral response, 
in contrast with T cells. 
ANSWER:   cells [or  
B B lymphocyte 
s; prompt on  
lymphocyte 
s; prompt on  
white blood 
 cells] 
020-12-59-10123 
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  5 of 12 
23. One political cartoon showed the name of this piece of legislation on a stone that a man is putting in 
front of a carriage powered by an equine Zachary Taylor. John Davis prevented this legislation from being 
discussed in the Senate out of fear that it would not pass. This piece of legislation was drafted with the help 
of Preston King, Jacob Brinkerhoff, and Gideon Welles. This legislation was part of the so-called \"Two 
Million Dollar Bill,\" and it arose from fears that Polk was using war to promote Southern interests. For 10 
points, name this bill that would have banned slavery in any territories acquired from Mexico. 
ANSWER:  
Wilmot Proviso 
048-12-59-10124 
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  6 of 12 
NASAT 2012 
Round 10 
Bonuses 
1. The \"Day of Tiles\" in Grenoble occurred after this king disbanded the Parlemonts. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French monarch during the French Revolution. He was married to Marie Antoinette. 
ANSWER:  
Louis XVI 
 [or  
Louis-Auguste de France 
, duc de Berry; prompt on  
Louis 
] 
[10] This director of finance under Louis XVI claimed that he could finance the American Revolution 
without raising taxes. This man also claimed that the government was running a surplus in his  
Compte 
rendu 
. 
ANSWER: Jacques  
Necker 
[10] Following the \"Flight to Varennes,\" the royal family was confined to this site, which is located on the 
banks of the Siene. Destroyed during the Paris Commune, its gardens were originally designed by Andre 
Le Notre under Louis XIV. 
ANSWER:  
Tuileries 
 Palace [or Palais des  
Tuileries 
] 
149-12-59-10201  
2. This man buys his prized possession with the aid of the tailor Petrovich. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character whose ghost threatens the Person of Consequence after he is denied help 
following his mugging while returning from a party of his coworkers. 
ANSWER:  
Akaky 
 Akakievich Bashmachkin [or Akaky Akakievich  
Bashmachkin 
] 
[10] Akaky Akakievich appears in \"The Overcoat,\" a story by this Russian who also wrote \"The Nose\" and 
\"Diary of a Madman.\" 
ANSWER: Nikolai  
Gogol 
[10] In this Gogol novella, the title character travels with his sons Ostap and Andriy to join a group of 
Cossacks fighting the Polish. 
ANSWER:  
Taras Bulba 
064-12-59-10202  
3. This work begins with a discussion of the public torture of Robert-Francois Damiens for attempting to 
kill Louis XV. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this work which discusses changes from older to modern penal systems, as well as the larger 
\"carceral system\" present in modern society. 
ANSWER:  
Discipline and Punish : The Birth of the Prison 
 [or  
Surveiller et punir : naissance de la prison 
] 
[10] This French thinker rejected the \"repressive hypothesis\" in  
The History of Sexuality, 
 in addition to 
writing  
Discipline and Punish. 
ANSWER: Michel  
Foucault 
[10] Foucault coined the term \"medical gaze\" to describe the separation of the patient's identity from his 
body in this other work. 
ANSWER:  
The  Birth of the Clinic 
 [or  
Naissance de la clinique 
] 
126-12-59-10203  
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  7 of 12 
4. A prince in this opera does not laugh at anything until Fata Morgana falls down and exposes her 
underwear. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this opera, in which a fairy princess named Ninette emerges from one of the title fruit, is turned 
into a giant rat by Morgana, and almost watches the Prince marry the disguised servant Smeraldina. 
ANSWER:  
The  Love for Three Oranges 
 [or  
L' amour des trois oranges 
] 
[10]  
The Love for Three Oranges 
 is a work by this composer, who also created a ballet version of  
Romeo 
and Juliet 
 and  
Peter and the Wolf 
. 
ANSWER: Sergei Sergeyevich  
Prokofiev 
[10] Prokofiev took private lessons from this Soviet composer, who did the music for the ballet  
The Red 
Poppy 
. 
ANSWER: Reinhold  
Gliere 
088-12-59-10204  
5. The weber and maxwell are both units for this quantity. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity, the amount of the B field passing through a surface. 
ANSWER:  
magnetic flux 
 [prompt on  
flux 
] 
[10] This law states that the total magnetic flux through a closed surface is zero and shows that a magnetic 
monopole cannot exist. 
ANSWER:  
Gauss's 
 law for magnetism 
[10] If the surface area in question is defined as  , then the magnetic flux is equal to this operator acted on 
S 
between the magnetic field and S. 
ANSWER:  
dot product 
064-12-59-10205  
6. A member of this organization killed Private William Long at a Little Rock military recruiting office in 
July 2009. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this organization whose leader, Anwar al-Awlaki, was killed in a September 2011 drone attack. 
A double agent infiltrated this group and spirited a refined, metal-less underwear bomb out of this group in 
2012. 
ANSWER: ? 
AQAP 
 [or  
Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula 
; prompt on  
Al-Qaeda 
] 
[10] Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula has a large presence in this country, where president Ali Abdullah 
Saleh resigned in 2012. On May 21, 2012, AQAP was responsible for a suicide bombing that killed over 
120 people during a parade rehearsal for this country’s Unity Day. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Yemen 
[10] Yemen was also the site of the 2000 Al-Qaeda bombing of this American destroyer in which 17 sailors 
were killed. 
ANSWER:  
USS  Cole 
030-12-59-10206  
7. This man’s theories centered on his idea of a genetic epistemology. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Swiss psychologist who developed the four stages of child development.? 
ANSWER: Jean  
Piaget 
[10] This is the second stage in Piaget’s theory of child development. It lasts from about the time a child is 
two to age six in which the child creates inner thoughts about the external world. 
ANSWER:  
Preoperational 
 Stage 
[10] Piaget was a student of this psychiatrist, who is credited with introducing the term \"schizophrenia\" to 
describe a disorder that used to be called \"dementia praecox.\" 
ANSWER: Eugene  
Bleuler 
030-12-59-10207  
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  8 of 12 
8. HindIII is an example of one of these, and two of these that recognize the same sequence are called 
isoschizomers. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this class of enzymes that cuts DNA at a specific point, resulting in either sticky or blunt ends. 
ANSWER:  
restriction 
 enzyme 
[10] This restriction enzyme creates sticky ends when it cuts the G off of the sequence GAATTC. 
ANSWER:  
EcoRI 
 [\"eco-R-eye\" or \"eco-R-one\"] 
[10] Restriction enzymes are often used to insert genes into these circular strands of DNA, which can be 
cloned via bacterial reproduction. 
ANSWER:  
plasmid 
127-12-59-10208  
9. In one poem, this author suggests that \"a wild civility\" lies in the tie of \"a careless shoe-string.\" For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this poet, who also wrote of \"a cuff neglectful\" and \"the tempestuous petticoat\" in that poem, 
\"Delight in Disorder.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Herrick 
[10] Herrick wrote an extremely disturbing poem about this woman's nipples. In another poem, he 
describes the \"liquefaction\" of this woman's clothes. 
ANSWER:  
Julia 
[10] Herrick's poem \"To the Virgins, To Make Much of Time\" is most famous for its opening line, which 
advises the addressees to gather these objects \"while ye may.\" 
ANSWER:  
rosebuds 
019-12-59-10209  
10. This empire rose to prominence under Tigleth-Pileser III and Ashurbanipal, who owned a large library. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Biblically-attested Mesopotamian empire with capital at Nineveh. 
ANSWER: Neo- 
Assyrian 
 Empire [or  
Ashur 
] 
[10] Assyria installed Psammetichus as a puppet king in this region, which Persia's Cambyses II invaded 
according to Herodotus. It signed the earliest recorded treaty with the Hittites after winning a large chariot 
battle by the Orontes River. 
ANSWER:  
Egypt 
[10] This fortress-like city, with reliefs of winged beasts called  
lamassu 
 in it, immediately preceded 
Nineveh as the capital of the empire. It was built under the reign of Sargon II in modern-day Khorsabad. 
ANSWER:  
Dur-Sharrukin 
104-12-59-10210  
11. In this film, a visual parallel is drawn between the rabbits killed in the hunt and the pilot Andre Jurieux, 
who is shot when he is mistaken for Octave. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1939 film in which chaos erupts at a party held by the decadent aristocrat La Chesnaye, 
whose servant Schumacher attempts to kill the former poacher Marceau. 
ANSWER:  
The  Rules of the Game 
 [or  
La  Regle du Jeu 
] 
[10]  
The Rules of the Game 
 is a film by this French director. He was the son of the Impressionist painter of  
Dance at the Moulin de la Galette. 
ANSWER: Jean  
Renoir 
[10] Renoir influenced New Wave director Francois Truffaut, whose first feature was this film about 
delinquent Antoine Doinel, who is jailed for stealing a typewriter and sent to a disciplinary school. 
ANSWER:  
The  400 Blows 
 [or  
Les  Quatre Cents Coups 
] 
014-12-59-10211  
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  9 of 12 
12. This period began after the death of William Adelin as a result of the sinking of the White Ship. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this period in British history that saw the Empress Matilda win the Battle of Lincoln with the aid 
of her husband Geoffrey of Anjou. 
ANSWER: the  
Anarchy 
 [or  
Nineteen Year Winter 
] 
[10] The Anarchy began when this man claimed the throne of England. A nephew of Henry I, this man was 
captured at the Battle of Lincoln and signed the Treat of Wallingford. 
ANSWER:  
Stephen 
 of Blois 
[10] The Anarchy occurred while England was ruled by the descendants of this man, who had conquered 
England in 1066. This man fought against Hereward the Wake after his victory at the Battle of Hastings. 
ANSWER:  
William I 
 [or  
William the Conqueror 
; or  
William the Bastard 
; or  
William of Normandy 
; or 
Guillaume le Conquerat 
; or  
Guillaume le Batard 
; or  
Guillaume de Normandie 
; prompt on  
William 
; 
prompt on  
Guillaume 
] 
149-12-59-10212  
13. Sometimes, Demeter messes people up. For 10 points each: 
[10] This poor kid didn't really do anything wrong, but Demeter ate his shoulder when his father Tantalus 
served him to the gods. After the gods brought him back to life, he got a nice ivory shoulder to replace it. 
ANSWER:  
Pelops 
[10] Demeter was understandably mad at this figure after he raped her in the form of a horse. He also raped 
Medusa in the temple of Athena. 
ANSWER:  
Poseidon 
[10] When Erysichthon chopped down a tree sacred to the goddess and killed a dryad in the process, 
Demeter cursed him with this ailment. 
ANSWER: insatiable  
hunger 
080-12-59-10213  
14. This man developed a technique in which tiny dots of painted color combine to form an image. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this prominent Pointillist, a Frenchman who painted a woman holding a monkey on a leash 
among relaxing park-dwellers in  
Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte 
. 
ANSWER: Georges  
Seurat 
[10] Seurat’s most famous pre-pointillist painting is one of five men in hats doing this “at Asnieres.” 
ANSWER:  
bath 
ing [or  
bathers 
 or other appropriate word forms; prompt “swimmers”] 
[10] Seurat left this final painting unfinished at his death. It shows a performer in a yellow dress balancing 
on one foot on top of a galloping horse. 
ANSWER:  
The  Circus 
 [or  
Le  Cirque 
] 
104-12-59-10214  
15. This gas giant has sixty-two moons, including Titan. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this planet, known for its nine rings, which can develop a storm known as the Great White Spot. 
ANSWER:  
Saturn 
[10] This moon of Saturn is notable for the presence of water ice on its surface. Along with Triton and Io, 
this moon is one of only three known to be volcanically active. 
ANSWER:  
Enceladus 
[10] This German-British astronomer discovered Enceladus, as well as infrared radiation and the moons 
Titania and Oberon. 
ANSWER: William  
Herschel 
105-12-59-10215  
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  10 of 12 
16. This boundary takes its name from the color of pencil that was allegedly used by Peter Young to draw 
it. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this line along which the UN Buffer Zone in Cyprus runs. This line marks the southern border 
of the internationally unrecognized country of Northern Cyprus. 
ANSWER:  
Green Line 
 [or  
Attila Line 
] 
[10] Give the only country that actually recognizes Northern Cyprus; that dispute is just one of several this 
country has with Greece. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Turkey 
 [or  
Turkiye 
 Cumhuriyeti] 
[10] The Cypriot \"Occupy Buffer Zone\" movement has made a permanent encampment at the Ledra Street 
crossing point in this divided capital of Cyprus. 
ANSWER:  
Nicosia 
003-12-59-10216  
17. Identify these quotes by Ronald Reagan, for 10 points each. 
[10] In 1983, Reagan gave a speech to the National Association of Evangelicals that gave this two-word 
label to the Soviet Union. 
ANSWER: \" 
evil empire 
\" 
[10] When, during a debate, President Carter solemnly attacked Reagan for opposing Medicare, Reagan 
defused the attack with this jovial response. 
ANSWER: \" 
There you go again 
\" 
[10] After being shot by John Hinckley, Reagan took off his oxygen mask in the operating room to make 
this joke about his doctors' political affiliations. 
ANSWER: \" 
I hope you're all Republicans 
\" [or \" 
I just hope you're all Republicans 
\"; or \" 
Please tell me 
you're all Republicans 
\"; accept equivalent answers] 
080-12-59-10217  
18. Synthetic diamonds are made in a process which uses chemicals that can easily form these substances 
that exist below the critical point. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these substances, easily formed by volatile substances and converted back to their original state 
of matter via reflux. 
ANSWER:  
vapor 
s [prompt on  
gas 
es] 
[10] The pressure exerted by a vapor of a substance in solution is related to the mole fraction of that 
substance by this law of chemistry. 
ANSWER:  
Raoult 
's law 
[10] This point is the lowest temperature above which a material vaporizes to form an ignitable mixture. If 
it is below 60 degrees Celsius, the material is considered to be combustible. 
ANSWER:  
flash 
 point 
020-12-59-10218  
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  11 of 12 
19. After hearing a solitary boo following this play's premiere, its author allegedly quipped, \"My dear 
fellow, I quite agree with you, but what are we two against so many?\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which Raina Petkoff falls in love with the Swiss mercenary Bluntschli amid the 
backdrop of the Serbo-Bulgarian War. 
ANSWER:  
Arms and the Man 
[10]  
Arms and the Man 
 is by this playwright who lampooned British aristocratic society in a play in which 
Henry Higgins bets he can pass off Eliza Doolittle as a lady,  
Pygmalion. 
ANSWER: George Bernard  
Shaw 
[10] Raina inscribes a photograph of herself to a person with this nickname, who is revealed to be 
Bluntschli. This nickname was bestowed because of his habit of carrying confections instead of cartridges 
into battle. 
ANSWER: my  
chocolate cream soldier 
003-12-59-10219  
20. This man wrote a story about John, who wanders through a post-apocalyptic world until he encounters 
the Place of the Gods, which is in New York City. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author of the story “By the Waters of Babylon” who also wrote a poem about the Civil War 
titled  
John Brown’s Body, 
 for which he won the Pulitzer Prize. 
ANSWER: Stephen Vincent  
Benet 
[10] Benet also wrote a short story about the Devil and this New England politician. In the story, this figure 
defends the soul of the farmer Jabez Stone from the Devil. 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Webster 
[10] The phrase “Bury my heart at Wounded Knee” is taken from this Benet poem, which begins with the 
speaker saying he has “fallen in love with” the title entities, such as Little French Lick and Medicine Hat. 
ANSWER: “ 
American Names 
” 
052-12-59-10220  
21. This term is also applied to Pope Paul VI's policies towards the Soviet Union. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German term that refers to attempts at normalizing relations between West Germany and 
the eastern bloc, including East Germany. It was effectively begun under Willy Brandt's Social Democrats. 
ANSWER: Neue  
Ostpolitik 
[10] During Brandt's tenure as Chancellor, he famously spontaneously knelt during a December 1970 visit 
to this city. The gesture was for the victims of the infamous ghetto uprising against Nazi Germany during 
World War II that took place in this city. 
ANSWER:  
Warsaw 
 [or  
Warszawa 
] 
[10] Brandt resigned his post shortly after this close aide of his was revealed to be an agent of the East 
German Stasi. Sentenced to thirteen years in prison, this man was later released to East Germany and 
celebrated as a hero. 
ANSWER: Günter  
Guillaume 
052-12-59-10221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 10     Page  12 of 12 
