NASAT 2013 
Round 16 
Tossups 
1. In the Phil Ochs song \"Love Me, I'm a Liberal,\" the narrator notes that his faith in the system was 
restored when this man was chosen. This man argued for a strong civil rights plank in the Democratic 
Party's platform at the 1948 convention and was instrumental in merging the Democratic and Farmer-Labor 
parties of his home state. At a convention that nominated this man, Connecticut Senator Abraham Ribicoff 
accused Mayor Daley of using \"Gestapo tactics in the streets of Chicago.\" For 10 points, name this 
Minnesota politician who served as Lyndon Johnson's Vice President and lost the 1968 presidential election 
to Richard Nixon. 
ANSWER: Hubert Horatio  
Humphrey 
, Jr. 
030-13-83-16101 
2. Peter Singer calls empathy an “expanding” one of these objects. Antoine Arnauld observed a logical 
failure to define “clear and distinct” ideas, called the “Cartesian” one. “Conversation is a game of” these 
objects according to an essay calling the horizon the second one and the eye the first, by Emerson. One of 
these containing “art” and “work”, discussed by Heidegger, is the hermeneutic one. This kind of object 
partly name a group including the Ernst Mach Society, Otto Neurath, and Rudolf Carnap. This object partly 
names a set of logical positivists who adored Wittgenstein which was based in Vienna. For 10 points, name 
this shape which lends its name to flawed logic when the conclusion is the same as one’s premise. 
ANSWER:  
circle 
s [or the Cartesian  
circle 
; or the hermeneutic  
circle 
; or the expanding  
circle 
; or the 
Vienna  
Circle 
; or  
circular 
 logic/reasoning; or Wiener  
Kreis 
; or hermeneutischer  
Zirkel 
] 
104-13-83-16102 
3. The speaker of one of these poems commands, “Descend lower, descend only into the world of perpetual 
solitude, world not world,” and recalls the words of a talking bird in a rose garden. The third of these 
poems asks, “Where is there an end to it, the soundless wailing, the silent withering of autumn flowers?” 
before acknowledging the possibility of “the life of significant soil.” The first of these poems begins, 
“Time present and time past are both perhaps present in time future.” These five-section poems, which 
each have an associated classical element, include “The Dry Salvages” and “Burnt Norton.” For 10 points, 
name this late set of complex poems by T. S. Eliot. 
ANSWER: the  
Four Quartets 
014-13-83-16103 
4. The prologue to this film contains expressive dancers in various poses, possibly owing to the director's 
own background as a dancer. This film opens with shots of ancient Greek ruins, such as a crumbling 
Acropolis, before using an extended dissolve to bring Myron's  
Discobolus 
 to life. This film was released in 
two parts, subtitled \"Festival of Nations\" and \"Festival of Beauty.\" It pioneered the techniques of extreme 
close-up, complex tracking, and underwater shots. Its end uses long shots to depict a diving sequence. This 
documentary prominently features Jesse Owens. For 10 points, identify this Leni Riefenstahl film about the 
1936 Summer Olympics. 
ANSWER:  
Olympia 
 [or  
Olympia  Part 1: Festival of Nations 
 or  
Olympia  1 Teil: Fest der Volker 
 until \"two 
parts\" is read] 
066-13-83-16104 
NASAT 2013     16     Page  1 of 12 
5. Carl Stoermer pioneered the use of rigidity cutoffs in determining what amount of these particles 
penetrate the Earth's atmosphere. Above a certain energy, these particles cannot travel further than 50 
megaparsecs without interacting with the CMB to produce delta baryons that decay into pions. An 
observatory in Argentina uses four fluorescence detectors and over a thousand water-based Cherenkov 
detectors to register these particles; data from that observatory was used to reject the theory of the isotropic 
distribution for certain types of them. That is the Pierre Auger observatory. That aforementioned energy is 
the GZK limit. The most energetic particle of this type to be detected was the Oh-My-God particle. For 10 
points, name these highly energetic particles from outer space. 
ANSWER:  
cosmic ray 
s [or any type of energy cosmic ray, such as ultra high energy, etc.; prompt on  
proton 
s; prompt on  
neutrino 
s; do not accept galactic or extragalactic cosmic rays] 
149-13-83-16105 
6. One of this author's novels depicts a rural family whose hostile members bring whips to the dinner table. 
In that novel, the illegitimate son Gervaska murders the patriarch, Peter Khrushchev, and flees the title 
estate,  
Sukhodol. 
 In another novel by this author, the aspiring writer Kuzma marries off a beautiful peasant 
known only as \"the Bride\" while working as the overseer of the estate of his brother, Tikhon Ilyich Krasov. 
The title character dies thinking only of dinner in his story about a man vacationing in Capri whose body is 
shipped back across the Atlantic. For 10 points, name this Russian writer of  
The Village 
 and \"The 
Gentleman from San Francisco.\" 
ANSWER: Ivan  
Bunin 
014-13-83-16106 
7. These compounds can be formed by a modification of the Wittig reaction that uses sulfur ylides with 
ketones and aldehydes. An enantioselective reaction that uses allylic alcohols in the presence of diethyl 
tartarate and t-butyl hydroperoxide can be used to create these compounds. Those are the 
Corey-Chaykovsky and Sharpless reactions for these compounds. The aza variant of these compounds are 
called aziridines, in which the oxygen atom found in these compounds is replaced with nitrogen. These 
compounds can be created by reacting MCPBA with an alkene in a reaction that contains the “butterfly 
mechanism.” That is the Prilezhaev reaction. For 10 points, name these cyclic ethers that are commonly 
used in adhesives. 
ANSWER:  
epoxides 
 [or  
oxirane 
; or  
oxacyclopropane 
] 
149-13-83-16107 
8. Five grotesque objects of this kind appear in Magritte's painting  
The Black Flag 
. Three cherubs gaze out 
of a framed window at the front of one of these objects in another artist's painting  
The Swan is Very 
Peaceful 
. In an even creepier painting by that artist, two soldiers huddle together near a wounded comrade 
as one of these objects with human arms takes up a majority of the space. Max Ernst painted the 
\"murdering\" variety of these objects, one of which explodes in  
Blam 
. The text \"I pressed the fire control... 
and ahead of me rockets blazed through the sky\" appears in a painting depicting combat between two of 
these vehicles. For 10 points, name these vehicles which dogfight in Roy Lichtenstein's painting  
Whaam! 
ANSWER: air 
plane 
s [or fighter  
jet 
s; or  
fighter 
s; or  
bomber 
s] 
020-13-83-16108 
NASAT 2013     16     Page  2 of 12 
9. One king with this name dressed up as a wild man and was set ablaze at the appropriately-named \"Ball 
of the Burning Men.\" That king with this name was one of the first monarchs to suffer from the glass 
delusion. Another king of this name dealt with a Viking siege of his capital by buying the invaders off; that 
son of Louis the German was the last of the Carolingian line. A later king with this name won the 
Burgundians over to his side with the Treaty of Arras and was crowned in 1429 thanks to Joan of Arc. 
Another king with this name conquered Algeria and was deposed in the July Revolution. For 10 points, 
give the name of these \"Mad\" and \"Fat\" French kings, the tenth of whom succeeded Louis XVIII. 
ANSWER:  
Charles 
 VI [or  
Charles 
 III; or  
Charles 
 VII; or  
Charles 
 X; or  
Charles 
 the Mad; or  
Charles 
 the 
Well-beloved; or  
Charles 
 the Fat; or  
Charles 
 the Well-served; or  
Charles 
 the Victorious] 
020-13-83-16109 
10. This city contained a dome supported by four arches called the Milion that recorded distances to other 
cities. A record of the regulations concerning this city's guilds can be found in the  
Book of the Prefect 
, 
addressed to the eparch administrating this city. A road called the mese (MEH-say) ran through this city, 
which may have lost forty percent of its population in a plague in 542 CE. A gigantic cannon designed by 
Orban sufficed to break through this city's 60-foot-tall Theodosian Walls. This city's hippodrome featured 
occasionally-violent contests between the Blues and Greens. For 10 points, name this capital city where the 
Nika Riots occurred during the reign of Justinian I. 
ANSWER:  
Constantinople 
 [or  
Byzantium 
; or  
Istanbul 
] 
080-13-83-16110 
11. According to the Homeric Hymns, Apollo appeared on a Cretan ship as a talking one of these creatures 
to get the priests for his oracle at Delphi. In a story recounted by Herodotus, these animals save a musician 
from Methymna who goes to Corinth to confront King Periander. Acoetes avoided being turned into one of 
these creatures for saving a young boy from rape. These animals saved the musician Arion in one myth, 
and in another, they were originally Tyrrhenian pirates who were transformed into this shape for 
mistreating Dionysus. For 10 points, name this marine mammal that serves as a messenger for Poseidon 
due to its intelligence. 
ANSWER: a  
dolphin 
080-13-83-16111 
12. Lindahl pricing is a way to efficiently allocate these things, but requires knowledge of individuals' 
demand functions. That problem may be overcome with the Groves-Clarke mechanism, an auction system 
for these things where truthful bidding is the dominant strategy. The Samuelson condition says these things 
are provided efficiently when the sum of individual marginal rates of substitution equals the marginal rate 
of transformation compared to an arbitrary good. These are non-rival and also non-excludable, which can 
make them subject to the free rider problem. 10 points, lighthouses are a frequently given example of what 
kinds of goods, which may be paid for with taxes? 
ANSWER:  
public 
 goods 
121-13-83-16112 
13. Christian Lindberg's famed recording of this man's  
Concerto for Trombone and Military Band 
 adds 
multiphonics to the cadenzas. One of his works opens with a bass motif based on the notes E-D-C-A sharp 
and depicts its title character with a harp-accompanied theme in which a solo violin plays high-register 
sixteenth note triplets. He asked the strings to imitate guitars in a movement that follows the second 
\"Alborada\" movement in one of his works; that work ends with a \"Fandango Asturiano.\" This composer 
wrote a symphonic suite that opens with the movement \"The Sea and Sinbad's Ship.\" For 10 points, name 
this composer of  
Capriccio Espagnol 
 and  
Scheherazade 
 who also wrote an interlude called \"Flight of the 
Bumblebee.\" 
ANSWER: Nikolai Andreyevich  
Rimsky-Korsakov 
029-13-83-16113 
NASAT 2013     16     Page  3 of 12 
14. This leader’s country is the subject of a website run by Curtis Melvin. One of his speeches inspired a 
song called “Onwards Toward the Final Victory.” This man’s wife may have been a former singer in the 
Unhasu Orchestra, and bootleg CDs of her performances are confiscated. This leader was accused of 
ordering the 2010 sinking of a ship called the  
Cheonan 
. Recently, he threatened to wipe out Baengnyeong 
Island. This man earned a physics degree at a university named for his grandfather and is the world’s 
youngest head of state. In February 2013, he met possibly his first American, Dennis Rodman. For 10 
points, name this son of Kim Jong-il, the current supreme leader of North Korea. 
ANSWER:  
Kim Jong-un 
 [prompt on  
Kim 
] 
052-13-83-16114 
15. This poem's second section begins with the speaker recalling how \"from air to air, like an empty net I 
went between the streets and atmosphere, arriving and departing.\" That section later warns, \"You'll not 
return from the bottom of the rocks.\" This poem addresses Cristobal Miranda at the beginning of its eighth 
section, \"The Earth's Name Is Juan,\" and it opens with \"A Lamp on Earth.\" The speaker urges the listener 
to \"speak through my words and through my blood\" and to \"arise to birth with me, my brother,\" in its 
section, \"The Heights of Macchu Picchu.\" For 10 points, name this book-length poem by Pablo Neruda. 
ANSWER:  
Canto General 
186-13-83-16115 
16. The Saltoro Mountains cut through this region and their namesake river flows into the Shyok River. 
One group of people in this region treats a course of meals called  
wazwan 
 as a work of art;  
dum aloo 
 is also 
a popular dish from this region. Ladakh is a part of this region that lies south of the Kunlun Mountains. 
China connected Xinjiang and Tibet by building a railroad through this region's Aksai Chin portion. The 
Siachen Glacier area is disputed within this region, and Srinagar is on the Jhelum River in this region's 
Valley. An Indian state groups together part of this region with Jammu. For 10 points, name this disputed 
region in the northern part of the Indian subcontinent. 
ANSWER:  
Kashmir 
192-13-83-16116 
17. The Battle of Saltley Gate was a confrontation that occurred during one of these events. Management 
practices by American businessman Ian MacGregor prompted one of these events that was led by Arthur 
Scargill. One of these events, which occurred from 1984 to 1985, included a politician calling the 
participants the \"enemy within\" and resulted in a major loss of influence for NUM. An earlier event of this 
type resulted in the fall of the government of Edward Heath. For 10 points, name these types of work 
stoppages, one of which was put down by Margaret Thatcher, that involved extractors of the namesake 
commodity. 
ANSWER:  
mine 
rs' strikes [or  
coal 
 strikes] 
030-13-83-16117 
18. If a field is orthogonal to this operator applied to the field, it is said to be complex lamellar. In 
cylindrical and spherical coordinates, respectively, this operation is scaled by one over rho and one over r 
squared sine theta. The Kelvin-Stokes theorem shows the surface integral of this operation applied to a 
function equals the line integral on the surface's boundary of the function. Maxwell's form of the Faraday 
equation equates it applied to the electric field to the negative time derivative of the magnetic field. If it 
applied to a fluid's velocity field is zero, the field is irrotational, and more generally, this operation applied 
to a fluid's velocity field gives the vorticity. For 10 points, name this vector operator usually symbolized as 
del cross a vector field. 
ANSWER:  
curl 
121-13-83-16118 
NASAT 2013     16     Page  4 of 12 
19. This poet wrote an untitled poem in which he described how his dead hand would \"haunt thy days and 
chill thy dreaming nights,\" though it is \"now warm and capable of earnest grasping.\" One of his sonnets 
concludes, \"on the shore of the wide world I stand alone, and think till love and fame to nothingness do 
sink.\" Another of his sonnets incorrectly identifies whose \"eagle eyes...stared at the Pacific\" and begins, 
\"Much have I travelled in the realms of gold.\" This poet of \"When I Have Fears That I May Cease to Be\" 
asked, \"Was it a vision, or a waking dream?\" in a poem about a bird that \"wast not born for death.\" For 10 
points, name this Romantic poet who wrote \"On First Looking into Chapman's Homer\" and \"Ode to a 
Nightingale.\" 
ANSWER: John  
Keats 
020-13-83-16119 
20. Susumu Ohno wrote a 1970 book that launched the study of the role this process plays in the evolution 
of genomes; Ohno proposed that two rounds of this happened in the ancestor of vertebrates. The results of 
this process can undergo subfunctionalization and neofunctionalization. The Bar phenotype in flies is a 
result of this action. This genetic process is the cause of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type I a. This process 
creates paralogs. If the result of this process is located adjacent to its source, it is said to be tandem. When 
this process occurs to the entire genome, polyploidy results. For 10 points, name this process in which 
additional copies of genetic material are created, and which thus contrasts with deletion. 
ANSWER:  
duplication 
001-13-83-16120 
21. The speaker of one poem in this collection notes, “I wish that I might be a thinking stone,” before 
observing, “until now I never knew that fluttering things have so distinct a shade.” A poem in this 
collection begins with the observation that “man is the intelligence of his soil” and traces a voyage to 
Carolina undertaken by the poet Crispin. Another poem in this collection describes a listener who “beholds 
nothing that is not there, and the nothing that is.” This collection includes “The Comedian as the Letter C,” 
“The Snow Man,” and a poem invoking “the roller of big cigars.” For 10 points, name this poetry 
collection containing \"The Emperor of Ice Cream,\" the first by Wallace Stevens. 
ANSWER:  
Harmonium 
014-13-83-16121 
22. A one-time US ambassador to this country, Arthur Bliss Lane, wrote a book titled \"I Saw [this country] 
Betrayed.\" One man from this modern-day country lost most of his men at the Battle of Little Egg Harbor, 
was mortally wounded at the Siege of Charleston, and suggested the creation of a cavalry unit with the 
recommendation of Horatio Gates. Another man from this modern-day country fortified West Point, 
making Benedict Arnold's life difficult. This nation's involvement in the Iraq War was \"forgotten\" by John 
Kerry in the 2004 election. For 10 points, name this country whose patriots Casimir Pulaski and Thaddeus 
Kosciuszko fought in the Revolutionary War. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Poland 
 [or Rzeczpospolita  
Polska 
] 
020-13-83-16122 
23. The St. Petersburg magazine  
Nouvellist 
 commissioned one piano collection with this title, which 
includes a popular G minor \"Barcarolle.\" The composer of another work with this title bemoaned the 
\"Frenchified trash\" of the tone-painting required to portray the croaking of frogs. That work includes the 
lyrics \"The huts that shelter us, The wool that covers us, The food that nourishes us, All is thy grant, thy 
gift,\" sung by Simon, Lucas, and Hanne, three peasants. These things are evoked by \"the barking dog\" and 
\"the langour caused by heat\" in a set of violin concertos published as part of  
The Contest Between Harmony 
and Invention 
. For 10 points, name these things depicted in an oratorio by Haydn and four concerti by 
Vivaldi. 
ANSWER:  
season 
s [or  
Le quattro  stagioni 
; or  
Die  Jahreszeiten 
; or  
Les  Saisons 
] 
020-13-83-16123 
NASAT 2013     16     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2013 
Round 16 
Bonuses 
1. This phenomenon occurred to the O-rings on the Challenger, causing the rubber to lose its ability to form 
a seal. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this transition which occurs to polymers and other amorphous materials when they are cooled 
quickly below the melting point, preventing crystallization. It's also called vitrification. 
ANSWER:  
glass 
 transition 
[10] During the glass transition, this quantity becomes discontinuous. It is the partial derivative of enthalpy 
with respect to temperature and measures the energy required to increase the temperature of a material by 
one degree. 
ANSWER:  
heat capacity 
 [or  
specific heat 
 capacity] 
[10] The glass transition occurs due to supercooling, which occurs in the absence of sites for this process. 
This process is the coalescence of crystals around a \"seed\" in a liquid, from which the freezing or boiling 
process begins. 
ANSWER:  
nucleation 
190-13-83-16201  
2. In this novel, Anne Dubreuilh, a stand-in for the author, has an affair with Lewis Brogan, who represents 
Nelson Algren. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this  
roman à clef 
 about a group of French intellectuals including the editor of  
L'Espoir, 
 Henri 
Perron. 
ANSWER:  
The  Mandarins 
 [or  
Les  Mandarins 
] 
[10] This French existentialist wrote  
The Mandarins. 
 This writer also wrote about Francoise's strained 
relationship with Pierre in  
She Came to Stay. 
ANSWER: Simone de  
Beauvoir 
[10] In  
The Mandarins, 
 Henri Perron represents this other existentialist. Meursault kills an Arab in his 
novel  
The Stranger. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Camus 
149-13-83-16202  
3. Answer the following about the Norman conquest of England, for 10 points each. 
[10] William the Conqueror's weather delays in invading England actually helped him by causing this 
coastal city in Sussex to be undefended when William's forces landed on September 28. 
ANSWER:  
Pevensey 
[10] William's won this 1066 battle depicted in the Bayeux Tapestry. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Hastings 
[10] William used this tactic two times during the Battle of Hastings to draw the English out of their 
defensive position on Senlac Hill. 
ANSWER: faking a  
retreat 
 [accept equivalent answers such as  
retreat 
ing then attacking] 
023-13-83-16203  
NASAT 2013     16     Page  6 of 12 
4. In this novel, Sandip promotes the Swadeshi movement but is mostly concerned with his own 
well-being. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel about Bimala and Nikhil's relationship to Indian nationalism. 
ANSWER:  
The  Home and the World 
 [or  
Ghore Baire 
] 
[10]  
The Home and the World 
 was written by this author of the poetry collection  
Gitanjali 
, the first 
non-European to win the Nobel Prize in Literature. 
ANSWER: Rabindranath  
Tagore 
[10]  
Gitanjali 
 and  
The Home and the World 
 were originally written in this Indian language, Tagore's native 
tongue. 
ANSWER:  
Bengali 
 [or  
Bangla 
] 
192-13-83-16204  
5. According to the FBI, this man was probably killed by his right-hand man, Steve Schneider. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this cult leader who died on April 19, 1993. He believed God told him to procreate with women 
at the Mount Carmel Center and was accused of committing statutory rape by taking underage brides. 
ANSWER: David  
Koresh 
 [or Vernon Wayne  
Howell 
] 
[10] The ATF and FBI raid on the Branch Davidian compound occurred during the tenure of this female 
Attorney General under Bill Clinton. 
ANSWER: Janet Wood  
Reno 
[10] While serving as a Florida prosecutor, Reno helped to convict Frank Fuster, an operator of one of 
these institutions. Fuster was accused of being a Satanist, much like Peggy McMartin, who also ran one of 
these places and was the subject of a seven year trial in the 1980s. 
ANSWER:  
preschool 
 [or  
daycare 
 center] 
052-13-83-16205  
6. For 10 points each, answer the following about Saul Bellow. 
[10] Many of Bellow's novels, such as  
The Adventures of Augie March 
, paint a portrait of this American 
city, also immortalized in a Carl Sandburg poem. 
ANSWER:  
Chicago 
[10] In this Bellow novel, a Holocaust survivor's daughter steals the manuscript of the Indian rocket 
scientist Dr. Govinda Lal, who wishes to escape the title location and go to the moon. 
ANSWER:  
Mr. Sammler's Planet 
[10] Bellow fictionalized himself as Charlie Citrine in this novel, in which he deals with contradictory 
advice from Rinaldo Cantabile and the title character, a stand-in for Bellow's real life friend Delmore 
Schwartz. 
ANSWER:  
Humboldt's Gift 
020-13-83-16206  
NASAT 2013     16     Page  7 of 12 
7. This artist painted himself dramatically pulling back a curtain in  
The Artist in His Museum 
. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this early American artist who also founded one of the first American museums in Philadelphia. 
He also painted  
The Exhumation of the Mastodon 
 and had artistic minded sons named Rembrandt and 
Titian. 
ANSWER: Charles Wilson  
Peale 
[10] Peale created sixty paintings of this man, who was also depicted crossing the Delaware River by 
Emanuel Leutze. 
ANSWER: George  
Washington 
[10] The House of Representatives is home to a Leutze mural honoring manifest destiny, whose title states 
that “westward” this concept takes its way. 
ANSWER: the  
course of empire 
 [or  
empire 
; do not accept any other answers] 
052-13-83-16207  
8. Name these characters from the  
Mabinogion 
, for 10 points each. 
[10] This giant goes to war with his brother-in-law King Matholwch for mistreating his sister. His head is 
cut off and buried in Britain to protect the isle from invasion. 
ANSWER:  
Bran 
 the Blessed [or  
Bendigeidfran 
] 
[10] This king sends six of his knights to help his cousin Culhwch in the quest to marry Olwen. In another 
myth system, he is the son of Uther Pendragon. 
ANSWER: King  
Arthur 
[10] In the last branch of the  
Mabinogion 
, this king turns his nephews into oppositely-gendered stags, pigs, 
and wolves and makes them have sex. At all times except wartime, he had to have his feet in the lap of a 
virgin. 
ANSWER:  
Math 
 fab Mathonwy [or  
Math 
 the son of Mathonwy] 
080-13-83-16208  
9. This process results in the observed movement of the deep scattering layer. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this movement of organisms that usually involves ascent to food-filled shallow water at night 
and descent to food-depleted depths during the day 
ANSWER:  
diel vertical migration 
 [or  
diurnal vertical migration 
; or  
DVM 
] 
[10] These tiny crustaceans in the order Euphausiacea undergo diel vertical migration. They are a major 
source of food for whales and other organisms in the Southern Ocean. 
ANSWER:  
krill 
[10] These tiny crustaceans also undergo diel vertical migration. These crustaceans are the most abundant 
zooplankton and form the largest biomass on Earth. 
ANSWER:  
copepod 
s [or  
Copepoda 
] 
066-13-83-16209  
NASAT 2013     16     Page  8 of 12 
10. One person who was discussing legislation addressing this event labeled Darell Issa \"one thousand 
percent wrong\" and promised to \"hold all my votes in abeyance.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this event which displaced thousands of New York and New Jersey residents in October 2012 
after causing flooding across the Northeast. 
ANSWER: Hurricane  
Sandy 
[10] This Congressman from New York threatened to leave the Republican Party over opposition to Sandy 
relief funding. He has been chided for his stance on Islamic terrorism following his vocal support for the 
IRA in the 1980s. 
ANSWER: Peter  
King 
[10] The only part of the bill to be funded by offsets was three billion dollars designated for this Defense 
Department agency, which itself was criticized in 2005 for its faulty designs of New Orleans-area levees. 
ANSWER: United States  
Army Corps of Engineers 
 [or US 
ACE 
] 
019-13-83-16210  
11. This work quotes the \"Grossvater Tanz\" to represent the Philistines in its final movement. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this collection of 22 short pieces, subtitled \"Little Scenes on Four Notes,\" which make up the 
A-S-C-H cryptogram. It depicts masked people celebrating the title festival. 
ANSWER:  
Carnaval , Op. 9 
[10]  
Carnaval 
 was composed by this German composer of the  
Spring 
 and  
Rhenish 
 symphonies, who 
married Clara Wieck. 
ANSWER: Robert Alexander  
Schumann 
[10] The 18th movement of  
Carnaval 
 is a D-flat piece with this title. In another work, this is the name of 
several pieces that alternate between 5/4 and 6/4 time, found between movements like \"Two Jews: Rich 
and Poor\" and \"The Market at Limoges.\" 
ANSWER:  
promenade 
s 
020-13-83-16211  
12. These works were defended in the manifesto \"Together Facing the New Totalitarianism.\" For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Identify these works published in the Danish newspaper  
Jyllands-Posten 
 in 2005. One of them 
featured a man wearing a turban with a bomb in it. 
ANSWER:  
cartoons of Muhammad 
 [accept equivalent answers] 
[10] Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the executive body of this organization, supported freedom of 
the press in the Muhammad cartoon case. This organization of 27 member states was formally established 
by the 1993 Maastricht Treaty. 
ANSWER:  
European Union 
 [or  
EU 
; or  
European Commission 
] 
[10] This Dutch filmmaker made the film  
Submission 
, which criticized the treatment of women in Islam. In 
2004, he was murdered by a Muslim extremist. 
ANSWER: Theodoor  
van Gogh 
052-13-83-16212  
NASAT 2013     16     Page  9 of 12 
13. A character in this novel gets back from a ball at two in the morning and is only let into his home 
because the servant was just then locking the door. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which the social climber Eugene de Rastignac courts Delphine, one of the two 
ungrateful daughters of the title vermicelli-maker. 
ANSWER:  
Le  Pere Goriot 
 [or  
Father Goriot 
; or  
Old Goriot 
] 
[10]  
Le Pere Goriot 
 is part of  
The Human Comedy, 
 a massive series of novels written by this French 
author. 
ANSWER: Honore de  
Balzac 
[10] In  
Le Pere Goriot, 
 this criminal entices Rastignac with the possibility of marrying the single woman 
Victorine by having her overprotective brother killed in a duel. 
ANSWER:  
Vautrin 
 [or  
Jacques 
 Collin; or Jacques  
Collin 
; or Abbe  
Carlos 
 Herrera; or Abbe Carlos  
Herrera 
; or  
Trompe-la-Mort 
; or the  
Dodger of Death 
] 
020-13-83-16213  
14. If a system has a cycle of this period, then by Sarkovskii's Theorem it has cycles of all periods. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Identify this number that also names a case of the n-body problem to which Lagrangian points are 
solutions of a restricted circular form. 
ANSWER:  
three 
[10] This man's work on the three body problem lead to the start of chaos theory. He also names a map 
formed by taking the points where a system's trajectory repeatedly crosses a hyperplane in phase space. 
ANSWER: Jules Henri  
Poincaré 
[10] This man names an integral whose value is conserved for orbits in the circular three body problem. He 
also co-names an equation which states that the partial derivative of the action with time plus the 
Hamiltonian written in terms of the action's derivatives equals zero. 
ANSWER: Carl Gustav Jacob  
Jacobi 
001-13-83-16214  
15. James Yorke Scarlett was heavily decorated for his efforts at this battle. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this battle in which the Scottish 93rd Highland Regiment was called a \"thin red line tipped with 
steel.\" An ill-fated attack based on Lord Raglan's misinterpreted order also occurred in this battle. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Balaclava 
[10] Balaclava was a battle in what war fought between Russia and a European alliance over Ottoman 
territory? 
ANSWER:  
Crimean 
 War 
[10] One of the first ever war correspondents, William Howard Russell, covered the Crimean War for this 
English newspaper, formerly  
The Daily Universal Register 
. It later employed double agent Kim Philby as a 
correspondent. 
ANSWER:  
The  Times 
052-13-83-16215  
NASAT 2013     16     Page  10 of 12 
16. The sestet of this sonnet laments that \"crass Casualty obstructs the sun and rain, and dicing Time for 
gladness casts a moan.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this sonnet, whose speaker hopes that \"some vengeful god would call to me\" and laugh, \"Thou 
suffering thing, know that thy sorrow is my ecstasy, that thy love's loss is my hate's profiting!\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Hap 
\" 
[10] \"Hap\" was written by this poet, who wrote the novels  
Far From the Madding Crowd 
 and  
The Mayor of 
Casterbridge 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Hardy 
[10] In this Hardy poem about the close of the 19th-century, when \"every spirit upon earth seemed 
fervourless as I,\" he concludes that the title bird sings of \"some blessed hope, whereof he knew and I was 
unaware.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Darkling Thrush 
\" 
020-13-83-16216  
17. Zuma Rock is known as the \"Gateway to\" this city, which lies inside the Federal Capital Territory. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this planned city that became its nation's capital in 1991. 
ANSWER:  
Abuja 
[10] Abuja is the capital of this West African country, having replaced its former capital in the southwest, 
Lagos. 
ANSWER: Federal Republic of  
Nigeria 
[10] Moving the capital occurred in part because Lagos is in the Yoruba-dominated portion of Nigeria, 
which was seen as unfair by Igbos in the east and members of this predominantly Muslim ethnic group 
mostly living in Nigeria's north. 
ANSWER:  
Hausa 
-Fulani [or  
Fulani 
] 
023-13-83-16217  
18. Answer the following about slimy things that crawl upon the slimy sea but might or might not have 
legs, for 10 points each. 
[10] Aplysia californica, a favorite of neurobiologists, is a member of this phylum. This phylum also 
includes bivalves and snails. 
ANSWER:  
Mollusc 
a [or  
mollusc 
s] 
[10] The Hawaiian Bobtail type of this mollusc likes to hide in sand during the day. At night the bobtail 
emerges filled with glowing  
Vibrio Fischeri 
 which prevents this creature from casting a moon shadow. 
Some of these creatures have giant axons. 
ANSWER:  
squid 
 [or  
Teuthida 
] 
[10] The slime of hagfish consists of mucins and thread like proteins similar to these proteins of which the 
alpha form have 3.5 residues per turn. Disruption of these proteins in humans is responsible for EBS and 
white sponge nevus. 
ANSWER:  
keratin 
s [prompt on  
intermediate filament 
s] 
001-13-83-16218  
NASAT 2013     16     Page  11 of 12 
19. This man was responsible for a referendum that removed Bao Dai from power and placed himself as 
president of a new republic. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this world leader killed in a November 1963 coup by Duong Van Minh. His biased Catholic 
policies were protested by a Buddhist monk who set himself on fire in 1963. 
ANSWER: Ngo Dinh  
Diem 
 [or  
Ngo 
 Dinh Diem] 
[10] Diem was the first president of what country that fought its northern neighbor, a Communist country 
founded by Ho Chi Minh? 
ANSWER:  
South Vietnam 
 [or  
Republic of Vietnam 
; prompt on  
Vietnam 
; do not accept \"Democratic 
Republic of Vietnam\"] 
[10] This man supported Van Minh's coup and shortly afterwards overthrew Minh himself. He was 
president of Vietnam during the Gulf of Tonkin incident. He eventually angered American ambassador 
Maxwell Taylor and was himself overthrown in 1965. 
ANSWER: Nguyen  
Khahn 
052-13-83-16219  
20. Karl Marx originated this sociological field. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this field of sociology which examines coercion in maintaining social order. According to it, 
social inequalities result from the ruling powers holding on to their advantages. 
ANSWER: social  
conflict theory 
[10] Conflict theorists want to change the status quo, unlike proponents of this other sociological approach, 
such as Parsons and Merton, who see society as a complex machine made up of many parts. 
ANSWER: structural  
functionalism 
 [or word forms] 
[10] Herbert Spencer, a proto-structural functionalist, is best known for this four-word phrase summing up 
natural selection. This phrase's intent has been twisted by Social Darwinists. 
ANSWER:  
survival of the fittest 
020-13-83-16220  
21. These numbers can be generated via the Mersenne twister or Blum Blum Shub methods. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name these numbers whose sequence has no identifiable patterns. 
ANSWER: pseudo- 
random 
 numbers 
[10] Evaluating a function at many randomly chosen inputs and then dividing the sum by the number of 
points provides an integral using this method, which was first proposed by Stanislaw Ulam and Nicholas 
Metropolis. 
ANSWER:  
Monte Carlo 
 integration [or  
Monte Carlo 
 method; or  
Monte Carlo 
 technique] 
[10] In physics, Monte Carlo event simulations are often decayed using these memoryless constructs, 
which represent variables which can each randomly evolve with some probability at any time. 
ANSWER:  
Markov chain 
s 
187-13-83-16221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     16     Page  12 of 12 
