NASAT 2011 
Round 4 
Tossups 
1. During this war, the five time consul Marcus Claudius Marcellus prevented the capture of Nola at three 
separate battles. The consul Gaius Nero won the Battle of the Metaurus in this war. One side in this war 
successfully employed the Fabian strategy until it became politically unpopular. Cato the Elder thought the 
terms that ended this war were too gentle, an opinion he made clear after each of his speeches. One leader 
in this conflict was the brother of Hasdrubal, who demonstrated classic double envelopment in his victory 
at Cannae and boldly marched his army over the Alps. For 10 points, name this war lost by Hannibal, the 
second to be fought between Rome and Carthage. 
ANSWER:  
Second Punic 
 War [prompt on  
Punic 
 Wars] 
015-11-30-04102 
2. One character in this play reads a letter which says “Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and 
some have greatness thrust upon 'em.” A note in this play is forged by Maria and asks its recipient to wear 
yellow stockings and cross garters. In this play, the sea captain Antonio becomes enraged at the supposed 
theft of his purse and is arrested by the Duke of Ilyria. One of its subplots concerns a duel in which Andrew 
Aguecheek and Toby Belch are wounded. A group of characters plot against the pompous steward 
Malvolio in this play, which centers on the courts of the wealthy countess Olivia and Duke Orsino. For 10 
points, name this Shakespeare comedy in which the twins Viola and Sebastian are separated after a 
shipwreck. 
ANSWER:  
Twelfth Night 
015-11-30-04103 
3. This thinker wrote that one should keep separate the \"Book of God\" from the \"Book of Nature,\" and 
outlined three \"distempers of learning.\" He also wrote a work in which a visitor meets Joabin the Jew and 
visits Solomon's House on the island of Bensalem. He wrote a work which discussed concepts such as Idols 
of the Theater and of the Market, which prohibit objective reasoning. For 10 points, name this philosopher 
who wrote  
The Advancement of Learning The New Atlantis 
,  , and the  
Novum Organum 
, in which he 
developed the scientific method. 
ANSWER: Francis  
Bacon 
088-11-30-04104 
4. In the first act of this play, some townspeople console a housewife by organizing a funeral procession for 
her dead cat. In the second act, the office's staircase is destroyed after Mrs. Boeuf announces her husband's 
disappearance. In the first act, a discussion of whether cats named Isidore and Fricot must have four paws 
occurs when the Logician tries to explain what a syllogism is to the Old Gentleman. This play's protagonist 
works at an office with Dudard and Botard, and watches his friend Jean anxiously look at himself in his 
bathroom mirror while his skin grows gradually greener. The protagonist, who also appears in  
Exit the King 
and  
The Killer 
, becomes the last human when his love interest Daisy turns into one of the title animals. For 
10 points, name this absurdist play by Eugene Ionesco. 
ANSWER:  
Rhinoceros 
015-11-30-04105 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. One book by this name discusses the interdependence of poetry and visual art, concluding that poetry has 
the advantage of showing duration and change while the arts can only depict singular moments. A painting 
by this name depicts a yellow horse climbing a hill in the center background while an arc is formed by a 
snake on the left. Baccio Bandinelli's attempt to copy one work by this name inspired a parody by Titian 
which depicts its central figures as apes; that original work was made by Polydorus, Athenodoros, and 
Agesander, and shows even larger serpents killing three men. For 10 points, name these works which depict 
a priest in the  
Aeneid 
 being punished by Neptune for doubting the Trojan Horse. 
ANSWER:  
Laocoon 
 (lay-AH-coh-awn or LAY-oh-coon) [or the  
Laocoon 
 group; or  
Laocoon 
 and His 
Sons] 
019-11-30-04106 
6. Central Asia and China saw the spreading of this belief system’s Naqshbandi sect, which is unique for 
not being derived from religious orders called  
tariqa 
. Followers attempt to attain a state of oneness with 
God, or self-annihilation, called  
fana 
. Practitioners may also practice  
dhikr 
, the recitation of God’s names, 
to activate extra-sensory organs called the Six Subtleties. The poet Rumi popularized one sect whose 
ascetic adherents meditate by spinning in circles. Featuring the Whirling Dervishes and named for the 
woolen clothes of its adherents, for 10 points, name this mystical Islamic belief system. 
ANSWER:  
Sufi 
sm 
079-11-30-04107 
7. This country is home to the Mentawai Islands, as well as to a volcano which in 1815 had the largest 
eruption of modern times and led to the “Year Without a Summer.” Major cities in this home of Mount 
Tambora include Medan, Surabaya, and Bandung. The Kalimantan provinces of this country are bordered 
by the Celebes Sea. This country controls both the Sunda and Madura straits. This country’s Banda Aceh 
region was the site of an earthquake on Boxing Day in 2004, which created a massive tsunami. For 10 
points, name this most populous Muslim country, whose islands include Sumatra and Java. 
ANSWER:  
Indonesia 
021-11-30-04108 
8. This man won a run-off election thanks to Frank W. Mayborn rushing home from a business trip. That 
victory for this man was for the Senate seat of Pappy O'Daniel and came against former governor Coke 
Stevenson. The Bilingual Education Act became law during his presidency. This president approved 
Operation Plan 34A, which was responsible for the placement of the  
Turner Joy 
 and another ship. During a 
speech at Ohio University, this man mentioned a plan to continue his predecessor's \"New Frontier.\" For 10 
points, name this president who was empowered by the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution and who supported the 
War on Poverty as part of his \"Great Society.\" 
ANSWER:  yndon Baines  
L Johnson 
 [or  
LBJ 
; prompt on  
Johnson 
] 
088-11-30-04109 
9. Different types of this molecule that perform the same function are called isoaccepting. This molecule 
contains inosine and reacts with a certain enzyme to undergo aminoacylation. This molecule assumes a 
cloverleaf-like structure containing D, T, and A arms needed to properly fit into the P and A sites of 
another molecule. Wobble base pairing was originally proposed to describe this molecule, which contains a 
three base region called an anticodon used during translation. For 10 points, name this form of RNA which 
directs an amino acid to a growing peptide chain and is synthesized in the ribosome from a corresponding 
mRNA strand. 
ANSWER:  
tRNA 
 [or  
transfer RNA 
; or  
transfer ribonucleic acid 
; prompt on  
RNA 
] 
064-11-30-04110 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. The HJM framework can be used to model risk in a certain type of these entities. Examples of perpetual 
types of these entities include consols. One form of them used in Latin America reduces concentration risk 
and is named for Nicholas Brady. The full market value of these entities is represented in their “dirty 
price.” Because of their contractual obligation, they’re sometimes called fixed-income securities. Types of 
these with a \"call\" feature can be redeemed early and are prone to interest rate risk. “Full faith and credit” 
is offered in risk-free forms of these. Holders of these items do not have equity in the institutions that issue 
them. The high-yield but risky ones are sometimes called the “junk” type. For 10 points, name this type of 
loan often issued by the government. 
ANSWER:  
bond 
s [accept  
fixed-income securities 
 before mention; prompt on  
loan 
s before it is read] 
094-11-30-04111 
11. The protagonist of this novel is asked to steal some irises and cat-tails from a garden. As a child, the 
protagonist delights in the murder of a girl by her war deserter boyfriend. The protagonist of this work gets 
a carton of cigarettes for trampling the pregnant girlfriend of a soldier. In one scene in this novel, the 
protagonist slips the photo of a prostitute into Father Dosen’s newspaper. In this novel, a cynical 
interpretation of the riddle “Nansen Kills a Kitten\" is given by the clubfooted Kashiwagi. This novel ends 
with the protagonist, Mizoguchi, burning the title location. For 10 points, name this Yukio Mishima novel 
whose title refers to a Zen Buddhist monument in Kyoto. 
ANSWER:  
The  Temple of the Golden Pavilion 
 [accept 
 Kinkaku-ji 
] 
052-11-30-04112 
12. This man's downfall came after he was too proud to share a dying declaration made in his favor. In 
1925, this man was appointed to two technical posts as well as to the Concessions Committee. Two years 
earlier, he sent a letter which prefigured the Declaration of 46, which was also sent to the Politburo, 
consolidating his position as the de facto leader of the Left Opposition. This man's theory of \"permanent 
revolution\" was opposed to the idea of \"socialism in one country.\" This commander of the Red Army was 
killed by Ramón Mercader, who assassinated him with an ice axe in Mexico. For 10 points, name this 
Bolshevik leader who was exiled by Stalin. 
ANSWER: Leon  
Trotsky 
 [or Lev Davidovich  
Bronshtein 
] 
024-11-30-04113 
13. One atom of this element is found in a catalyst for hydrosilylation named for Speier. One dimensional 
chains made of ions of this element are found in Magnus's green salt. With elements like potassium, this 
metal is found in Zeise’s salt. Chernyaev introduced the trans effect to the chemistry of this element, which 
influences the synthesis of a particular cancer drug that crosslinks DNA. This element is present in the 
hydrogenating Adams' catalyst. It and a similar element's plus two oxidation states are in a d8 configuration 
and often found in square planar complexes. Osmium and palladium are found in this element's namesake 
group. For 10 points, name this metallic element with symbol Pt. 
ANSWER:  
platinum 
001-11-30-04114 
14. In the third movement of this symphony, the timpani and basses play irregular rhythms in a trio dubbed 
“Altväterisch,” or “old fashioned.” In the first movement of this symphony, the timpani enter playing a 
left-left-left-right-left cadence march over the pastoral sound of cowbells. The first movement concludes 
with a motif in which the woodwinds play an ascending A minor triad over the timpani. That motif is 
named “Alma’s theme” after the wife of the composer and is heard again at the end of this symphony's 
final movement after the sound of three hammer blows representing fate. For 10 points, name this gloomy 
sixth symphony composed by Gustav Mahler. 
ANSWER:  
Tragic  Symphony 
 [or  
Tragische  Symphonie 
; accept  
Mahler 
’s  
Symphony  No. 6 
 and equivalents 
before “sixth” is read] 
079-11-30-04115 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. Higher-order examples of these entities are described by Zernike polynomials. Two finite transverse 
ones can be calculated using the Aldis theorem. The magnitude of one of these entities is proportional to 
one over the Abbe number. The five Seidel ones arise from a third-order approximation of the sine function 
in Snell's Law and include a type caused by the inability of a lens to focus parallel light rays to a single 
point, as well as astigmatism and coma. For 10 points, name these distortions in optical images caused by 
limitations of lenses, types of which include chromatic and spherical. 
ANSWER: optical  
aberration 
s 
003-11-30-04116 
16. One property of these functions can be calculated by taking the limit supremum of an associate 
sequence to the one over n, according to the Cauchy-Hadamard theorem. Another important property for 
them can be rewritten into Schlömilch form. These functions are used to define matrix exponentials. For 
complex holomorphic functions, these functions will always converge. Laurent names an object that 
generalizes them. Using their namesake's theorem, one can calculate an appropriate term for these items 
with a radius of convergence. An analytic function is equal to its this function at every points in an open 
interval. The exponential function can expressed in terms of these by a power divided by a factorial. For 10 
points, name these infinite sums named for an English mathematician, used to approximate functions. 
ANSWER:  
Taylor 
 series [accept  
Maclaurin 
 series I guess; prompt on power series] 
107-11-30-04117 
17. One of these creatures named Hylonome committed suicide when her husband Cyllarus was killed in a 
battle. Along with fairies, this creatures were said to inhabit the Foloi Oak Forest. A pair of these figures 
named Hylaeus and Rhaecus attempted to rape Atalanta but were killed by Meleager. A group of these 
creatures beat Caeneus into the ground using stones, and a group of them were killed by a certain hero after 
one of them named Pholus offered wine. At the wedding of Pelops and Hippodamia, these creatures fought 
against their rivals, the Lapiths. These creatures were the product of the union of Ixion and Nephele. 
Deianeira took a shirt and dipped it into the blood of one of these creatures named Nessus, which caused 
Heracles great agony when he wore it. For 10 points, name these wise creatures from Greek Mythology 
which were half-human half-horse. 
ANSWER:  
Centaur 
s 
048-11-30-04118 
18. One of these works shows a drunken group of nuns and friars singing as they traverse a valley. Another 
one of these paintings shows some soldiers in a mountain valley about to shoot a group of people on 
horseback while a man and woman float overhead. Another entitled  
Judith and Holofernes 
 omits 
Holofernes and shows a knife-holding Judith, who may be modeled after the artist’s maid Leocadia.  
The 
Pilgrimage to San Isidro Asmodea 
,  , and  
Fight With Cudgels 
 are works in this series, which also shows the 
worship of a Satanic goat-headed man in the  
Witches’ Sabbath 
. For 10 points, name this series including  
Saturn Devouring His Sons 
, that was painted on the walls of a house by Francisco Goya. 
ANSWER:  
The  Black Paintings 
 [or  
Las  Pinturas Negras 
] 
079-11-30-04119 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. One set of edicts enacted by this dynasty was designed to protect stray dogs and was titled the 
\"Compassion for Living Things\" laws. The Dutch-born American interpreter Henry Heusken was 
assassinated while working under Townshend Harris in the American Consulate to this dynasty. Supporters 
of this dynasty lost at the Battle of Hakodate after starting the Ezo Republic during the Boshin War. This 
empire followed the Warring States period and was founded following its namesake's victory at the Battle 
of Sekigahara. For 10 points, name this powerful shogunate that ruled Japan in the years preceding the 
Meiji Restoration, also named for the city in which it was based. 
ANSWER:  
Tokugawa 
 shogunate [or  
Edo 
 period] 
081-11-30-04120 
20. This poet wrote, \"I have eased my dim dears at the breasts they could never suck\" in a poem that ends, 
\"Believe me, I knew you, though faintly, and I loved, I loved you all.\" The speaker of another poem asserts 
the \"casket stand . . . can't hold her, / That stuff and satin aiming to enfold her.\" The declaration, \"Abortions 
will not let you forget\" begins her poem titled \"The Mother.\" This author of \"The Rites of Cousin Vit\" 
wrote about a \"rented back room that is full of beads and dolls and cloths\" in a poem about \"Two who are 
Mostly Good\" that are described as \"[an] old yellow pair.\" She also wrote a poem about people who \"Lurk 
late\", \"Thin gin\", \"Jazz June\" and \"Die soon.\" For 10 points, name this African-American poet who wrote 
\"The Bean-Eaters\" and \"We Real Cool\". 
ANSWER: Gwendolyn  
Brooks 
095-11-30-04121 
21. Prior to this engagement, the losing commander stole all of the other side’s treasure and prisoners of 
war at Sebastea. Leading up to this battle, Arisiaghi, brother of one commander, captured Manuel, the 
nephew of the rival commander. Troops under Roussel de Bailleul in Georgia did not participate in this 
battle because the losing monarch believed his enemy was in Persia. Following this battle, General 
Andronikos Doukas returned home and proclaimed Michael VII emperor. Fought near Lake Van, this battle 
saw the death of many members of the Varangian Guard. For 10 points, name this 1071 disaster for the 
Byzantines, where Emperor Romanos IV was taken captive by the Seljuk Turks under Alp Arslan. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Manzikert 
 [or  
Malazgrit 
 Savasi] 
094-11-30-04122 
22. In the Mariannas, this phenomena leads to churada storms. The northeast one in the Philippines is 
known as Brisa. The movement of the Bermuda high contributes to one with a burst and break pattern in 
Arizona. One of these brings about the reversal of the Somali Current. These phenomena can be driven by 
land heating up faster than the ocean, creating a large region of low pressure over land during the summer. 
One cause of the most notable of these occurrences is the high elevation heat source of the Tibetan Plateau 
and the boundary created by the Himalayans. This phenomenon is a large scale reversal of wind patterns. 
For 10 points, name these meteorological patterns that can bring tremendous amounts of rain to India. 
ANSWER:  
monsoon 
001-11-30-04123 
23. This poet claimed \"Nature is a temple in which living pillars / Sometimes give voice to confused 
words\" in his poem \"Correspondences.\" He wrote another poem about a figure who \"[is] exiled on earth, 
amidst its hooting crowds, / He cannot walk borne down by his giant wings.\" This poet wrote about a figure 
\"who, like a stab of a knife / entered my plaintine heart\" in \"The Vampire\" which appears in the same 
collection as \"Litanies to Satan.\" This poet of  
Artificial Paradises 
 wrote a collection that includes sections 
titled \"Revolt\", \"Death\" and \"Spleen and Ideal.\" For 10 points, name this French poet who included \"The 
Albatross\" and \"Invitation to the Voyage\" in  
The Flowers of Evil 
. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Baudelaire 
024-11-30-04124 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 4 
Bonuses 
1. He wrote about a hare-lipped gardener who is devoted to his mother in  
Life & Times of Michael K. 
 For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this South African author of  
Waiting for the Barbarians 
 and  
Disgrace 
. 
ANSWER: John Maxwell  
Coetzee 
[10] This protagonist of  
Disgrace 
 retreats to the country with his daughter after having an affair with a 
student. 
ANSWER:  
David 
 Lurie [or David  
Lurie 
] 
[10] The title character of Coetzee’s  
The Master of Petersburg 
 is this other author of  
The Double 
. 
ANSWER: Fyodor Mikhaylovich  
Dostoyevsky 
015-11-30-04201 
2. Its last chapter is titled “A Summary of Race Problems in the United States” and offers an overview of 
the “Negro Problem” in America. For 10 points each; 
[10] Name this 1911 book that asserts the human capacity for intelligence is the same across all cultures 
because there is no real difference the title figure and the “civilized man.” 
ANSWER:  
The  Mind of Primitive Man 
[10]  
The Mind of Primitive Man 
 was written by this anthropologist at Columbia whose notable students 
include Margaret Mead and Alfred Kroeber. 
ANSWER: Franz  
Boas 
[10] Boas famously examined the practice of potlatch in this Native American tribe from British Columbia. 
Boas also wrote a book about their mythology and social organization and secret societies. 
ANSWER:  
Kwakiutl 
109-11-30-04202 
3. Name these jazz saxophonists, for 10 points each. 
[10] This performer of an adaptation of “My Favorite Things” worked with the Classic Quartet on his 
album  
A Love Supreme 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Coltrane 
[10] This performer of “Billie’s Bounce” and “Confirmation” named his song “Ornithology” after his 
nickname. 
ANSWER: Charlie “Bird”  
Parker 
[10] This saxophonist was known as “the Sound” and popularized bossa nova with his song “The Girl from 
Ipanema.” 
ANSWER: Stan  
Getz 
015-11-30-04203 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Gold hunting was every Spanish conquistador's favorite hobby. For 10 points each: 
[10] Fernando de Montesinos identified the rich Biblical kingdom Ophir as the ancestors of this empire, 
which made sense after its last leader, Atahualpa, attempted to buy his freedom with a room of gold and 
two of silver. 
ANSWER:  
Inca 
n Empire 
[10] After splitting with Gonzalo Pizarro, this man's 1541 attempt to find El Dorado ended with his 
expedition traveling the length of the Amazon River. 
ANSWER: Francisco de  
Orellana 
[10] This man traversed New Mexico in an attempt to find the Seven Cities of Gold, but found only one - 
Quivira, which had no gold. 
ANSWER: Francisco Vasquez de  
Coronado 
003-11-30-04204 
5. They have a LSGGQ signature and the MDR1 efflux member of this class of proteins confers resistance 
to some chemotherapy drugs. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this large class of proteins mostly involved in transport whose nucleotide binding domains 
contain two Walker motifs to bind ATP. 
ANSWER:  
ABC 
 transporter [or  
ATP-binding cassette 
 transporter] 
[10] This disease caused by a mutations like delta F508 in an ABC ion transporter. It sees sticky mucus 
builds up in the lungs and salty quality to the skin. 
ANSWER:  
cystic fibrosis 
[10] The CFTR protein normally transports thiocyanate and this ion. 
ANSWER:  
chloride 
 [or  
chlorine 
 ion] 
001-11-30-04205 
6. Name these Nabokov works, for 10 points each. 
[10] The title character of this novel is a bumbling professor at Waindell College famous for his 
mannerisms. His ex-wife Liza is married to the incompetent Freudian psychologist Eric Wind. 
ANSWER:  
Pnin 
[10] This other Nabokov novel shares its name with a 999-line poem by John Shade printed in the book 
with commentary by the possibly delusional Charles Kinbote who claims to be the exiled king of Zembla. 
ANSWER:  
Pale Fire 
[10] Nabokov included the previously published “Mademoiselle O” as chapter five of this autobiographical 
work, which relates his early life in Saint Petersburg and his emigration from Russia. 
ANSWER:  
Speak, Memory 
015-11-30-04206 
7. One long term cause of this conflict was the Doctrine of Lapse, in which any state without an heir under 
the influence of the British East India Company was annexed to it. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this rebellion which caused many warlords to proclaim Bahadur Shah II Emperor of India. 
ANSWER:  
Sepoy 
 Rebellion [or  
Indian Mutiny 
 of 1857; or  
Indian Rebellion 
 of 1857; accept equivalents] 
[10] Henry Lawrence and Henry Havelock died during the first siege of this city in the Sepoy Rebellion. 
The Muslim League and the Indian National Congress signed a 1916 pact in this city. 
ANSWER:  
Lucknow 
[10] This monarch became to first with direct rule over India after the British East India company was 
crippled in 1858. Other events in the reign of this monarch include the Great Exhibition. 
ANSWER: Alexandrina  
Victoria 
 of England 
015-11-30-04207 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. A skolemized statement cannot contain the existential ones. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these components of 1st order logic not present in propositional logic. The symbol for the 
universal one is an upside down capital A. 
ANSWER:  
quantifier 
[10] If p implies q in propositional logic, then then this statement written as not q implies not p is also true. 
ANSWER:  
contrapositive 
[10] This theorem states that if S is a countable set of first order logic statements and every finite subset of 
S is satisfiable, then S is satisfiable. 
ANSWER:  
compactness 
 theorem 
001-11-30-04208 
9. This ship spilled 10 to 32 million gallons of oil on March 24, 1989. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ship which ran aground the Bligh Reef in Prince William Sound. 
ANSWER:  
Exxon Valdez 
[10] This man, the captain of the  
Exxon Valdez 
, was accused but later acquitted of being intoxicated when 
the ship ran aground. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Hazelwood 
[10] This President signed the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 in an effort to prevent any future oil spills. 
ANSWER:  
George H 
  erbert  alker  
W Bush 
 [or  
Bush 41 
; accept any answer indicating the older Bush; 
prompt on  
Bush 
; prompt on  eorge  
G Bush 
] 
088-11-30-04209 
10. Name these French portraitists, for 10 points each. 
[10] He showed a nude concubine reclining in  
The Grand Odalisque 
 and also painted The Apotheosis of 
Homer. 
ANSWER: Jean August Dominique  
Ingres 
[10] The way in which the title figure of  
The Grand Odalisque 
 looks over her shoulder is reminiscent of 
this painter’s earlier  
Portrait of Madame Recamier 
. 
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis  
David 
[10] A black servant accompanies the incredibly flamboyant Augustus the Strong in this court painter's 
portrait of him. However, he remains best known for his picture of Louis XIV in tights. 
ANSWER: Hyacinthe  
Rigaud 
079-11-30-04210 
11. He wrote short stories like “Grandparenting” in his  
The Maples Stories 
, as well as several novels about 
the fictional writer Henry Bech. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this author who also wrote about the relationship between the artist Peter Caldwell, who 
suffers from psoriasis, and his father George in  
The Centaur 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Updike 
[10] Updike is probably best known for his novels about this character, a former Pennsylvania high school 
basketball star and one-time owner of a Toyota dealership. He goes by an animal nickname. 
ANSWER:  
Harry Rabbit Angstrom 
 “ ”   [accept any underlined answer] 
[10] In this other Updike novel, the supernatural Alexandra, Jane and Sukie are all initially entranced by 
Darryl Van Horne, although Darryl runs off with a youth named Chris at the end of the story. 
ANSWER:  
The  Witches of Eastwick 
094-11-30-04211 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. A common tradition in Protestant churches is to choose something to abstain from during this period. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this period of the liturgical calendar that runs from Ash Wednesday to Easter. 
ANSWER:  
Lent 
[10] This other period of the liturgical calendar begins on the Sunday nearest to St. Andrew’s day and lasts 
until Christmas. 
ANSWER:  
Advent 
[10] The periods of time which are not Advent, Lent, Easter or Christmas are known as this on the liturgical 
calendar. It is represented by the color green. 
ANSWER:  
Ordinary Time 
 [or  
Tempus per annum 
] 
015-11-30-04212 
13. The London equations describe the electromagnetic field surrounding this type of object. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this type of object which has zero electrical resistivity below a certain point. 
ANSWER:  
superconductor 
 [accept word forms] 
[10] Superconductors are marked by this effect, the expulsion of the magnetic field below a certain 
temperature. 
ANSWER:  
Meissner 
 effect 
[10] This compound with a four letter abbreviation and a perovskite structure was the first material 
discovered to possess superconductivity above the boiling point of nitrogen gas. 
ANSWER:  
YBCO 
 [or  
yttrium barium copper oxide 
] 
064-11-30-04213 
14. The war over the succession of this country was fought in the 1730s. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country which was partitioned three times. 
ANSWER:  
Poland 
[10] This first ruling dynasty of Poland began with its namesake “wheelwright” and ended with the death 
of Casimir the Great in 1370. 
ANSWER:  
Piast 
[10] Parts of this region were controlled by a branch of the Piasts into the 17th century. Frederick the Great 
of Prussia seized this region in the War of Austrian Succession. 
ANSWER:  
Silesia 
015-11-30-04214 
15. One of these works was written to open the Pesth theater and was inspired by Kotzebue's  
Bela's Flight, 
and another was for accompanied Josef van Collin's version of  
Coriolanus. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this genre of pieces by Beethoven, which includes the  
Onomastica, The Ruins of Athens, 
   the  
King Stephen, 
 and four Leonoras. 
ANSWER: the  
overture 
s of Ludwig van Beethoven 
[10] The fourth Leonora overture serves as the final version of the overture to this opera. Its plot concerns 
Leonara's rescue of Florestan, and it is the only opera Beethoven wrote. 
ANSWER:  
Fidelio 
[10] A slow dance representing the invasion of the Netherlands by Spain is found near the start of this 
Beethoven overture, which tells of a hero of the Dutch revolt. 
ANSWER:  
Egmont 
019-11-30-04215 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. Some date this intellectual movement to Petrarch’s writing of “The Ascent of Mount Ventoux.” For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this intellectual approach which is centered on personal development through the study of 
cultural works, especially classics. 
ANSWER:  
humanism 
[10] This philosopher of  
Being and Nothingness 
 expressed a connection between two apparently distinct 
philosophies in the pamphlet  
Existentialism is a Humanism. 
ANSWER: Jean-Paul  
Sartre 
[10] This twentieth-century humanist expounded on his system of “absolute idealism” in  
Philosophy of 
Spirit. 
 He was also the leader of the Italian Liberal Party. 
ANSWER: Benedetto  
Croce 
019-11-30-04216 
17. In the early 1990s it was proposed that an eruption of this volcano about 70,000 years ago created a 
bottleneck in the human race. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this volcano on Sumatra believed to be responsible for the biggest volcanic eruption in the last 
million years. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Toba 
 Volcano 
[10] Toba is an example of this type of volcano capable over ejecting over 1000 cubic kilometers of 
material. Other examples include Taupo and Yellowstone. 
ANSWER:  
super 
volcano 
[10] The Yellowstone supervolcano is believed to be the result of one of these locations of persistent 
volcanism thanks to a namesake property of the mantle in that location. 
ANSWER:  
hot spot 
001-11-30-04217 
18. Apollodorus gives this man, not Chiron, as the grandfather of Telamon via his daughter Endeis, and 
either he or a man of the same name in the same place led the Megarians during war. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who may have been killed by being thrown to a sea tortoise. 
ANSWER:  
Sciron 
 [or  
Skiron 
; or  
Scyron 
] 
[10] This Greek hero killed Sciron as one of his feats of strength on his way to meeting his father Aegeus. 
His later kill of the Minotaur is not one of those feats. 
ANSWER:  
Theseus 
[10] Theseus did not fall for Sciron's trick of coercing passersby to perform this action; while those 
unsuspecting strangers were doing this, Sciron would kick them over a precipice to a possible tortoise 
below. 
ANSWER:  
wash 
ing Sciron's  
feet 
 [accept reasonable equivalents] 
003-11-30-04218 
19. Although most of his followers supported the Arian heresy, this man adopted Catholicism at the behest 
of his wife Clotilde. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this son of Childeric I who united the Frankish tribes under himself. 
ANSWER:  
Clovis 
 I 
[10] Clovis I was a scion of this Frankish dynasty, which was known for its longhaired rulers and for 
preceding the Carolingian dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Merovingian 
[10] The main source for Merovingian history is this bishop of Tours whose ten books of history are often 
referred to as  
The History of the Franks 
. 
ANSWER:  
Gregory 
 of Tours 
015-11-30-04219 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. Written by the author of  
The Romance of the Forest 
, this work features a protagonist who bears a strong 
resemblance to a miniature portrait of Marquise de Villeroi. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this Ann Radcliffe novel where Emily St. Aubert is forced to live at the title castle owned by 
Signor Montoni. 
ANSWER:  
The  Mysteries of Udolpho 
[10]  
The Mysteries of Udolpho 
 is read by Catherine Morland in this Jane Austen novel before Catherine 
visits the title estate of General Tilney. 
ANSWER:  
Northanger Abbey 
[10] This other English Gothic author wrote plays like  
The East Indian 
 but is best known for a novel about 
Father Ambrosio,  
The Monk 
. 
ANSWER: Matthew Gregory  
Lewis 
094-11-30-04220 
21. Maxy Falk satirizes Terence's famous quote about writing when he enters in the second act by 
proclaiming, \"Nothing foreign is human to me.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play that begins when Hugo Pludek is sent to a meeting with Mr. Kalabis at the Liquidation 
Office. 
ANSWER:  
The  Garden Party 
 [or  
Zahradni Slavnost 
] 
[10] This author of  
Largo Desolato 
 and  
The Memorandum 
 wrote  
The Garden Party 
 in addition to being 
elected president of the Czech Republic. 
ANSWER: Vaclav  
Havel 
[10] At the beginning of  
The Garden Party 
, Hugo plays this game by himself. It is also the subject of 
Nabokov's novel  
The Defense 
. 
ANSWER:  
chess 
015-11-30-04221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 4     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
