National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 15 
Tossups 
1. One character in this book is the governor Tatnai, who is ordered to not disturb certain workers. This 
work’s ninth chapter features news of mixed marriages, which culminates in the sending off of foreign 
wives and children. A literary chiasmus focusing on a celebration in Jerusalem is present in the Apocryphal 
\"Greek\" version of this text. After Zerubbabel leads a group of workers in this book, several Samaritans 
send a letter to Cambyses II to hinder their efforts. Joshua, exhorted by Haggai and Zechariah, orders the 
rebuilding of the Temple of Jerusalem, as permitted by Cyrus. For 10 points, name this Old Testament 
book often paired with Nehemiah. 
ANSWER: Book of  
Ezra 
 [prompt on  
Esdras 
 until mention of \"Greek\"] 
020-09-12-15102 
2. Slotnick gave a formula for the velocity of these phenomena based on depth. They show a dip-dependent 
NMO velocity signature in VTI media. These phenomena can propagate in a liquid, so their shadow zone 
ends at 140 degrees. Unlike their counterparts, the speed of these phenomena depends on the bulk modulus. 
The displacement in these waves is parallel to the direction of travel. They are faster than their 
counterparts, meaning they arrive at the surface first, hence their name. For 10 points, name these seismic 
compression waves, the counterparts of S waves. 
ANSWER:   waves (prompt on  
P sesmic 
 waves or  
compression 
 waves before mentioned) 
001-09-12-15103 
3. Most of the sheep farming in this region occurs in the cool zone between Mar del Plata and Tandil. 
Heavy Italian immigration helped settle this region's Córdoba, Santa Fe, and Mendoza provinces. At its 
north, this region abuts the desert known as the Gran Chaco, while its south runs into the semi-arid plateau 
Patagonia. It is the setting for a characteristic romantic literature about the duels of honor fought by the  
gauchos. 
 For 10 points, identify this region which is home to Buenos Aires and comprises the open plains 
of Argentina. 
ANSWER: the  
Pampa 
s [or La  
Pampa 
] 
019-09-12-15104 
4. The winning side in this war withdrew from a city it had occupied during the war to prevent conflict with 
the British, who owned a license to the nickel mines in that city, Petsamo. The losing side in this war had 
built part of the Enckell Line, which was superseded by the Mannerheim Line. In a follow-up to the 
conflict called the Continuation War, the losing side attacked the Soviet Union concurrently with 
Germany's Operation Barbarossa and briefly regained Karelia and parts of Lake Ladoga. For 10 points, 
name this 1939-1940 war during which the Soviet Union invaded Finland. 
ANSWER:  
Winter War 
 [or  
Russo-Finnish 
 War of 1939-1940 before \"Soviet Union\"] 
003-09-12-15105 
5. Huitzilopochtli threw one of these objects belonging to Copil into Lake Texcoco. People were buried 
squatting and carrying a jade bead, which represented them, in the seventh trial on the journey to Mictlan. 
When people questioned Hanuman's reverence for Rama and Sita, he showed them that they resided in this 
object of his. Birds warned Sigurd of Regin's arrival after the former ate the one belonging to Fafnir. 
Ammit devoured the ones heavier than the feather of Ma’at. As a sacrifice to the sun gods, Aztec priests 
extracted these objects from living victims. For 10 points, name these organs through which a stake must be 
pushed to kill a vampire. 
ANSWER:  
heart 
s 
003-09-12-15106 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  1 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One work by this artist inspired a Sylvia Plath poem in which a mother keeps ill-bred aunts and 
disfigured cousins away from the speaker's christening. In another of this artist's paintings, a train is in the 
background while pineapples, bananas and a Greek sculpture are in the foreground. One work by this artist 
of  
La Reve Transforme 
 contains a painting-within-a-painting of an industrial complex. Another of his 
works shows dummies among an empty urban square. This artist of  
Metaphysical Interior with Large 
Factory 
 and  
The Disquieting Muses 
 painted a work that shows a menacing shadow in the back, an open 
wagon on the right, and a girl rolling a hoop up a road. For 10 points, name this Greek-Italian painter of  
Melancholy and Mystery of a Street 
. 
ANSWER: Giorgio de  
Chirico 
064-09-12-15107 
7. One document in support of this cause stated that \"unfortunately, the overworked term 'genocide' is 
applicable\" and led to the recall of the Foreign Service employee who wrote that dissent-channel 
communique, Archer Blood. This goal was opposed by the militias Razarkars and al-Shams, and its 
achivement led to the displacement into refugee status of many Bihari speakers. This goal was advanced by 
the militant Freedom Force, which was enraged that Yahya Khan had asked Zulfikar Ali Bhutto to become 
prime minister. Politically, it was advocated by the Awami League, whose leader Mujibur Rahman became 
president after this cause was won. For 10 points, identify this goal which was achieved in 1971 when a 
new country broke off from Pakistan. 
ANSWER: the  
independence of Bangladesh 
 [or the  
independence of East Pakistan 
 or other equivalents] 
019-09-12-15108 
8. A play by this author ends with the protagonist's wife Sarah urging him to \"blow on the coal of the 
heart.\" In a poem by this author, the speaker describes darkness rising over Ecbatan, Kermanshah, 
Baghdad, and Palmyra, and imagines lying \"face downward in the sun\" and feeling \"how swift how 
secretly / the shadow of the night comes on.\" Another of this author's poems recommends that a work of art 
be \"wordless as the flight of birds\" and \"palpable and mute / as a globed fruit.\" This author wrote a play in 
which Nickles and Mr. Zuss put on the masks of Satan and God and watch the title character react to 
calamities originally visited upon Job. For 10 points, name this author of \"You, Andrew Marvell\" and  
J. B. 
, 
an American poet who wrote \"a poem should not mean but be\" in \"Ars Poetica.\" 
ANSWER: Archibald  
MacLeish 
020-09-12-15109 
9. The ratio of the rate of emission of these particles to Auger ionization is proportional to the third power 
of atomic number. Dust particles lose momentum after interaction with these particles in 
Poynting-Robertson drag. Pair production generates an electron and positron from one of these particles. 
One cross-section for scattering of these particles by charges is given by eight pi over three times the 
square of the classical particle radius, that being the Thompson cross-section; another such cross-section is 
the Klein-Nishina formula. The energy of one of these is equal to Planck's constant times its frequency. For 
10 points, name these particles that carry the electromagnetic force and travel at the speed of light because 
they are the quanta of light. 
ANSWER:  
photon 
s 
001-09-12-15110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  2 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This poet described his work as “the roll, the rise, the carol, the creation” in his “To R.B,” which was 
addressed to the compiler and popularizer of his work, Robert Bridges. He wrote of a man who suffered 
from “Fatal four disorders” and concludes that “seeing the sick endears them to us, us too it endears” in a 
poem about the death of a farrier. This poet praised “the achieve of; the mastery of the thing!” in a poem 
dedicated “to Christ our Lord” which describes the flight of a “dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon.” He wrote of 
his appreciation for “All things counter, original, spare, strange” in a poem which opens “Glory be to God 
for dappled things.” For 10 points, name this Catholic priest and poet of “Felix Randal,” “The 
Windhover,” and “Pied Beauty.” 
ANSWER: Gerard Manley  
Hopkins 
015-09-12-15111 
11. This philosopher explains his inability to understand interactions from sense-data, ending an essay that 
tackles skepticism by claiming the absolute certainty of a few beliefs. This philosopher argues that 
goodness is non-natural and indefinable in terms of other properties. This author invites the reader to 
substitute “pleasant” for anything in the sentence “Is it good that x is pleasant?” to argue that value cannot 
be analyzed in the open-question argument. That question is further examined by this philosopher for his 
refutation of the “naturalistic fallacy.” For 10 points, name this British philosopher who wrote  
Principia 
Ethica 
. 
ANSWER: George Edward  
Moore 
020-09-12-15112 
12. In one work by this author, a committee uses garbage trucks to create a huge traffic jam to assist the 
title character in paying her debts before the arrival of a bailiff. The title character of another novel by this 
author has a father named Alfons who retires from running a coal company to become a consummate talk 
show guest. The former Hitler Youth leader Herbert Kalick is hit by the performer Hans Schnier in that 
book by this man, who also wrote a novel in which the Faehmel family reconciles over a cake designed as a 
replica of St. Anthony's Abbey. For 10 points, name this German author of  
Group Portrait with a Lady 
,  
The Clown 
, and  
Billiards at Half-Past Nine 
. 
ANSWER: Heinrich  
Böll 
030-09-12-15113 
13. The so-called lemma of d'Alembert [DAH-lum-ber] is an incomplete proof of this statement that can be 
completed using the Weierstrass extreme value theorem. A more direct proof of it uses Rouché's theorem to 
show that a function with a known number of the values in question has the same number as the function of 
interest. One corollary of this statement is that every polynomial with only real roots can be written a linear 
combination of linear and quadratic terms. For 10 points, name this theorem that states that every 
polynomial over the complex numbers has at least one root, the basic result in an important branch of 
mathematics. 
ANSWER: the  
fundamental theorem of algebra 
 [prompt on  
FTA 
] 
064-09-12-15114 
14. The eighth chapter of this novel introduces a storyline about Federico Tellez Unzategui, who becomes 
obsessed with exterminating rats after rats eat his baby sister. Its sixth chapter describes the trial of 
Gumercindo Tello, who offers to castrate himself in court to prove that he did not rape Sarita Salaverria. 
One of this novel's title characters is based on Raul Salmon, and is hired by Genaro Jr., although his hatred 
of Argentina causes friction with his employer, Radio Panamerica. The even chapters of this novel contain 
screenplays that become confused with one another and resemble the love affair between the narrator and 
the first title character. For 10 points, name this novel that interweaves radio soap operas by Pedro 
Camacho and the romance of Mario Varguitas, written by Mario Vargas Llosa. 
ANSWER:  
Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter 
 [or  
La  tía Julia y el escribidor 
] 
020-09-12-15115 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  3 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. Followed by “beautiful,” this word refers to a turn of the century movement which resulted in the 
McMillan Plan and sought to improve way of life through the construction of imposing monuments. The 
New Zealander Charles Reade worked with Ebenezer Howard to design the “garden” type of these, which 
were inspired by Edward Bellamy’s  
Looking Backward 
. Joel Garreau posited “Boomers,” “Greenfields,” 
and “Uptowns” as the edge varieties of these. Ernest Burgess described them with the concentric zone 
model. The metaphors of these entities as \"containers\" and \"magnets\" is central to a Lewis Mumford work 
that documents them “in history.” For 10 points, name these population centers that are surrounded by 
suburbs. 
ANSWER:  
cities 
 [or  
city 
] 
015-09-12-15116 
16. In polymer chemistry, an equation that includes the free volume fraction, the Doolittle Equation, better 
describes the temperature dependence of viscosity than this equation. The development of transition state 
theory led to the creation of an equation for more complex situations than this equation can handle; that 
equation is named for Polanyi and Eyring. In collision theory, the leading coefficient of this equation is 
replaced with the collision frequency, Z, and the steric factor, p. The right hand side of this equation more 
commonly contains a pre-exponential factor labeled A. For 10 points, name this equation that relates 
temperature and the rate constant. 
ANSWER:  
Arrhenius 
 Equation 
023-09-12-15117 
17. This ruler replaced the Third Department with a secret police force called the Okhrana which was 
headed by his interior minister Loris Melikof. This ruler banned the use of the Ukranian language with the 
Ems Ukaz and banned Polish after he put down the January Uprising. He signed the Aigun Treaty with 
Qing China and initiated the Zemstvo system. After winning battles at Pleven and Shipka Pass, he signed 
the Treaty of San Stefano with the Ottoman Empire. This man was assassinated by the terrorist group 
People’s Will after his Emancipation Reform of 1861freed the serfs. For 10 points, name this Russian tsar 
who reigned from 1855 to 1881. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander II 
015-09-12-15118 
18. This composer commemmorated Joseph de Marliave by writing a toccata that begins with sixteen 
consecutive E's. Marliave's wife Marguerite Long performed the premiere of this composer's Piano 
Concerto in G major, which begins with a whip crack. Inspired by Schubert to compose a suite of eight  
Noble and Sentimental Waltzes 
, this composer was commissioned by Paul Wittgenstein to write his D 
major  
Piano Concerto for the Left Hand 
. This composer’s nostalgia for Spanish culture inspired him to 
produce both his  
Rapsodie espagnole 
 and his  
Pavane for a Dead Princess 
. Another of his pieces was 
originally commissioned as a ballet by Ida Rubinstein, and repeats a single theme over a ostinato rhythm 
played on a snare drum. For 10 points, name this French composer of  
Bolero 
. 
ANSWER: Maurice  
Ravel 
052-09-12-15119 
19. During one battle in these conflicts, the life of a commander was saved after a sailor named Reuben 
James took a sword wound for his superior. One of these conflicts saw Tobias Lear sent as a peace envoy 
following a decisive victory at the Battle of Derne. Another began with the capture of the  
Meshuda 
 at the 
Battle of Cape Gata after a declaration of war by Umar ben Muhammed. One of these conflicts led to a 
British bombardment of Algiers and another saw the U.S.S.  
Philadelphia 
 set ablaze following the actions 
of Stephen Decatur. For 10 points, name this series of wars fought between the United States and North 
African pirates. 
ANSWER:  
Barbary 
 Wars 
064-09-12-15120 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  4 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. A chorus of shepherds in this opera sing \"Emily, Emily, Michael, Bartholomew / How are your children 
and how are your sheep\" before presenting gifts such as olives and quinces. One of its characters is 
comically hard of hearing, and offers black licorice to this opera's protagonist in the aria \"This is my box.\" 
This opera's female lead sings \"All that gold!\" and attempts to steal it before being caught by the Page and 
pardoned by King Melchior. At the end of this opera, the title character gives his crutch to the Christ child, 
causing his leg to miraculously heal. Its original performance took place on Christmas Eve, 1951, and was 
broadcast by NBC. For 10 points, name this opera about a crippled boy's encounter with the Magi, 
composed for television by Gian-Carlo Menotti. 
ANSWER:  
Amahl and the Night Visitors 
052-09-12-15121 
21. An N-acetyl derivative of this amino acid is used in over-the-counter expectorants, and TGF-beta has a 
characteristic group of nine of these residues, eight of which form a namesake knot. The catalytic site of 
caspases contains histidine and this amino acid, and along with histidine, it coordinates with zinc ions in 
zinc finger motifs. This amino acid is present in high concentrations in keratin and thus in human hair. For 
10 points, name this amino acid that can form disulfide bonds, unlike methionine, and is symbolized C. 
ANSWER:  
cysteine 
032-09-12-15122 
22. One character in this novel ponders choosing between “the woman from the bulrush basket or the 
woman from Plato’s myth,” and that character abides by the \"rule of threes\" in his relationships with 
women. While in Geneva, one character in this novel falls in love with the university professor Franz, who 
is obsessed with the kitsch he finds in the movement called \"The Great March.\" The protagonist's favorite 
mistress is the painter Sabina, who ends up in California at this work's end. Its protagonist has a son named 
Simon and dies with Tereza in a car accident. For 10 points, Tomas’s life just before the Prague Spring is 
chronicled in what Milan Kundera novel? 
ANSWER:  
The  Unbearable Lightness of Being 
 [or  
Nesnesitelná Lekhost Byti 
; or  
L’Insoutenable 
Légèrité de l’Être 
] 
003-09-12-15123 
23. One group that participated in this event lost one man in a skirmish at the Exchange Hotel and was 
called the Hibernian Rifles. Another participant in this event was quickly ordered executed by John 
Maxwell. That participant, Patrick Pearse, was part of a group that took over locations such as Boland’s 
Bakery and Jacob’s Biscuit Factory, though it was centered in the General Post Office. Arms were to be 
given to one side from Germany through Roger Casement, who was captured before any exchange. For 10 
points, name this failed uprising that proclaimed an Irish Republic and lasted a week after starting on a 
certain holiday. 
ANSWER:  
Easter Rising 
 [or equivalent terms; or  
Eiri Amach na Casca 
] 
023-09-12-15124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  5 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 15 
Bonuses 
1. This event was investigated by Colonel Georges Picquart. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1894 scandal, in which the namesake Jewish army officer was accused by the French 
government of betraying secrets to the Germans. 
ANSWER:  
Dreyfus 
 Affair 
[10] This editor of the newspaper  
L’Aurore 
 published Emile Zola’s \"J’accuse\" letter on the front page, 
denouncing the persecution of Dreyfus. 
ANSWER: Georges  
Clemenceau 
[10] The real traitor turned out to be this anti-Semitic army major, who was never convicted for his dirty 
deeds. When the truth began to come out, he fled to the United Kingdom. 
ANSWER: Ferdinand Walsin  
Esterhazy 
052-09-12-15201 
2. In a 2009 study that built on this concept, Tinsley and Lebak observed a similar pattern with \"reflexive 
capacity\" in adults. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this concept subdivided into \"skill-oriented,\" \"individual,\" and \"cultural\" varieties and defined 
as the difference in capability of a learner who receives and who does not receive help. 
ANSWER:  
zone of proximal development 
 [prompt on  
ZPD 
] 
[10] This Soviet psychologist who coined the term \"zone of proximal development\" wrote  
Thought and 
Language 
 and theorized that children learn by \"scaffolding.\" 
ANSWER: Lev Semyonovich  
Vygotsky 
[10] In contrast, this Swiss psychologist developed the sensorimotor, preoperational, concrete operational, 
and formal operational stages based on the presence of object permanence and the perseverative search 
error. 
ANSWER: Jean  
Piaget 
003-09-12-15202 
3. Its most famous ruler distributed so much gold on his hajj that he caused inflation and devaluation of the 
metal. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this African empire with capital at Timbuktu. 
ANSWER:  
Mali 
nke empire 
[10] This founder of the Mali empire won the Battle of Kirina and created the Gbara, or legislative 
assembly of the empire. 
ANSWER:  
Sundiata 
 Keita 
[10] Sundiata defeated this Ghanaian ruler at Kirina. Until his defeat, he had used Kumbi Saleh as a major 
military base. 
ANSWER:  
Sumanguru 
 Kante 
032-09-12-15203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  6 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. These cells are infected in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of immune cells, which are activated by the secretion of interleukin-2, one form of 
which releases antibodies. 
ANSWER:   cells 
B 
[10] This other family of immune cells include natural killer cells, as well as families that express CD4 and 
CD8, the \"helper\" and \"cytotoxic\" types. 
ANSWER:   cells 
T 
[10] This class of molecules is expressed attached to foreign antigens on the surface of antigen-presenting 
cells, such as macrophages and B cells, and is recognized by T helper cells. 
ANSWER:  
MHC 
 Class   [or  
II Major Histocompatibility Complex 
 Class  ; prompt on  
II MHC 
 or  
Major 
Histocompatibility Complex 
] 
022-09-12-15204 
5. The Netherlands played a crucial role in World War II. For 10 points each: 
[10] After the Dutch put up unexpectedly tough resistance, Nazi bombers destroyed this Dutch city at the 
mouth of the Rhine River. This hometown of Erasmus is now the most active port in Europe. 
ANSWER:  
Rotterdam 
[10] This woman was the queen of the Netherlands during the war. She fled to Great Britain during the 
occupation and broadcast messages of inspiration to the Dutch resistance movement. 
ANSWER: Queen  
Wilhelmina 
[10] The Netherlands was part of this German system defending the coastline of occupied territory in 
Western Europe. In 1944, Rommel was assigned to fortify its weaknesses. 
ANSWER:  
Atlantic Wall 
064-09-12-15205 
6. The speaker of this poem is directed by a \"hoary cripple, with malicious eye\" to the title structure. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this dramatic monologue whose title comes from a line spoken by Edgar in  
King Lear 
. Its 
speaker, an aspiring knight, journeys to the title structure before placing a slug-horn to his lips. 
ANSWER: \" 
Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came 
\" 
[10] This author published \"Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came,\" as well as the dramatic monologues 
\"Andrea del Sarto\" and \"Fra Lippo Lippi,\" in his collection  
Men and Women 
. He also wrote  
The Ring and 
the Book 
. 
ANSWER:  obert  
R Browning 
 [prompt on  
Browning 
] 
[10] Browning published this work as the first volume of  
Bells and Pomegranetes 
. It follows the 
wanderings of the title innocent girl, and contains the line \"God's in his heaven / All's right with the world!\" 
ANSWER:  
Pippa Passes 
004-09-12-15206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  7 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. From 1930 to 1940, this country was ruled by King Carol II. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country, whose Fascist Iron Guard supported its leader Ion Antonescu. During much of the 
Cold War, it was ruled by Nicolae Ceausescu. 
ANSWER:  
Romania 
[10] In 1859, this territory united with Moldavia to form Romania. It was founded by Radu Negru in 1290, 
and is divided into Muntenia and Oltenia. 
ANSWER:  
Wallachia 
[10] This fifteenth century voivode of Wallachia launched the unsuccessful Night Attack on the forces of 
Mehmet II and became notorious for his cruelty against both enemies and dissidents. 
ANSWER:  
Vlad the Impaler 
 [or  
Vlad III 
 Dracul; or  
Vlad Tepes 
; or  
Vlad Dracula 
; do not accept \"Vlad 
Dracul\"; prompt on  
Vlad 
] 
004-09-12-15207 
8. This philosopher claimed that watching tragedies helped people achieve emotional release, or catharsis, 
in his  
Poetics 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ancient Greek philosopher who distinguished material, formal, efficient, and final causes in  
Physics 
, and propounded the doctrine of the mean in  
Nicomachean Ethics 
. 
ANSWER:  
Aristotle 
[10] In the  
Nichomachean Ethics 
, Aristotle asserts that the greatest human good is this goal, which is 
usually translated as \"happiness\" or \"flourishing.\" Its name comes from the Greek for \"good spirit.\" 
ANSWER:  
eudaimonia 
[10] This Arabic philosopher allegedly read the  
Metaphysics 
 of Aristotle forty times after he could not 
understand al-Farabi's commentary. He then applied Aristotle's theories to treating disease in his  
Canon 
. 
ANSWER:  
Avicenna 
 [or Abu Ali  
Sina 
; or Ibn  
Sina 
; or Abu Ali al-Husayn ibn Abd Allah ibn  
Sina 
] 
004-09-12-15208 
9. This Swedish scientist established an observatory at Uppsala. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who established a temperature scale that has standard-pressure water freezing at 100 
degrees and it boiling at 0 degrees, values which were later reversed by Linnaeus. 
ANSWER: Anders  
Celsius 
[10] Celsius identified this persistent ionospheric phenomenon as magnetic in nature, noting that increases 
in its intensity corresponded with deflections of a compass. 
ANSWER: the  
aurora borealis 
 (or  
northern lights); accept  
aurora_s) 
[10] Celsius also participated in Maupertius' geodetic survey of Uppsala, measuring the length of one of 
these near the north pole for comparison to the length of one near the equator. This supported the 
hypothesis that the Earth is oblate and flattened near the poles. 
ANSWER: a degree of  
latitude 
001-09-12-15209 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  8 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. The scars on this character's back are compared to a chokecherry tree. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who is nursed back to health by Amy Denver. She is rowed across the Ohio River 
by Stamp Paid after running away from Sweet Home. 
ANSWER:  
Sethe 
[10] Sethe kills her daughter instead of surrendering her back to slavery in this Toni Morrison novel, whose 
title character may be that baby's returned spirit. 
ANSWER:  
Beloved 
[10] Sethe kills her daughter in defiance of this sadistic brother of Mrs. Garner, who leads a posse to 
capture her in Cincinnati. He orders his pupils to examine Sethe's animal characteristics and steal her breast 
milk. 
ANSWER:  
schoolteacher 
032-09-12-15210 
11. Hund’s rule of maximum multiplicity seeks to maximize this quantity in an atom. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity which for an electron is either positive or negative one-half. 
ANSWER:  
spin 
[10] The differing spin states of isotopes such as hydrogen-1 and carbon-13 forms the basis of this type of 
spectroscopy, used in modern day MRI. 
ANSWER:  
NMR 
 or  
nuclear magnetic resonance 
 spectroscopy 
[10] Interactions between an electron’s spin and its angular momentum gives rise to this series of small 
shifts and splitting in the atom’s energy levels. It includes the 21 centimeter line found in the interstellar 
medium. 
ANSWER:  
hyperfine 
 structure 
064-09-12-15211 
12. Examples of this genre of novels include Ellen Glasgow's  
Barren Ground 
 and Upton Sinclar's  
The 
Jungle 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this subgenre of realism which flourished in American literature during the first part of the 
twentieth century. It presents characters who unsuccessfully struggle against a deterministic, uncaring 
universe. 
ANSWER:  
naturalism 
 [or  
naturalistic 
 literature] 
[10] This leading American naturalist wrote  
An American Tragedy 
 and  
Sister Carrie 
. 
ANSWER: Theodore Herman Albert  
Dreiser 
[10] This naturalistic novel was adapted into Erich von Stroheim's film  
Greed 
. It ends with its protagonist 
handcuffed to the corpse of Marcus Schouler in Death Valley. 
ANSWER:  
McTeague : A Story of San Francisco 
024-09-12-15212 
13. The central location of this work is depicted as a mountain which culminates in “The Earthly Paradise” 
and includes seven terraces or cornices. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this work which ends as its protagonist drinks from the River Eunoe. 
ANSWER:  
Purgatorio 
 [or  
Purgatory 
] 
[10] The  
Purgatorio 
 follows the  
Inferno 
 in the  
Divine Comedy 
 of this Italian poet. 
ANSWER:  
Dante 
 Alighieri 
[10] In between the fifth and sixth terraces, Dante and Virgil meet this Roman poet. He wrote about the 
exploits of the title hero in the  
Achilliad 
 and about Eteocles and Polynices in his most famous work. 
ANSWER: Publius Papinius  
Statius 
015-09-12-15213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  9 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. It can be avoided by the banker's algorithm. Its prerequisites include mutual exclusion and circular wait. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this condition that happens for two processes A and B when A is holding a resource that B 
needs and will not release it until B releases a resource that A needs, which it is holding until it gets the 
resource it needs from A. 
ANSWER:  
deadlock 
 (prompt on  
race 
 condition) 
[10] Deadlock can lead to this related condition, in which processes never get the resources they need to do 
whatever it is they need to do. 
ANSWER:  
starvation 
[10] Deadlock and starvation are illustrated in the dining philosopher's problem formulated by this Dutch 
computer scientist. He also devised a greedy shortest path algorithm. 
ANSWER: Edsger Wybe  
Dijkstra 
001-09-12-15214 
15. He wrote a symphony in E flat major that was dedicated to Napoleon Buonaparte, until he scratched the 
dedication out of the score. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer of the  
Eroica Symphony 
. 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven 
[10] This symphony, called “the Apotheosis of Dance” by Wagner, has a second movement Allegretto that 
was encored at the premiere, and is in A major. 
ANSWER: Symphony Number   in A major 
7 
[10] This concerto in E flat major by Beethoven is dedicated to Archduke Rudolf, and it instructs the 
performer not to improvise its cadenzas. It was his final concerto. 
ANSWER:  
Emperor 
 piano concerto [or  
piano concerto 
 no.   in E flat major; prompt on partial answer 
5 
including  ] 
5 
027-09-12-15215 
16. For 10 points each, name the following about the illustrious Wyeth family. 
[10] In a 1948 work, Andrew Wyeth showed this girl, who was paralyzed from the waist down, crawling 
towards a farmhouse in Cushing, Maine. That painting is named after this girl's namesake \"World.\" 
ANSWER:  
Christina Olson 
   [accept either] 
[10] Andrew Wyeth painted over 240 works showing this female neighbor of his from Chadds Ford, 
Pennsylvania. 
ANSWER:  
Helga Testorf 
   [accept either] 
[10] Andrew wasn't the only Wyeth; his father N. C. illustrated classics like  
Robinson Crusoe 
 for this 
literary magazine, other contributors to which included Theodore Roosevelt and Jacob Riis. 
ANSWER:  
Scribner's  Magazine 
 [do not accept \"Scribner's Monthly\"] 
064-09-12-15216 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  10 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. For a body moving in one direction with speed v, this quantity is given by one over the square root of 
quantity one minus v-squared over c-squared, where c is the speed of light. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity fundamental to special relativity. 
ANSWER: the  
Lorentz 
 factor [or Lorentz  
gamma 
; or relativistic  
gamma 
] 
[10] This phenomenon sometimes named for Lorentz changes the dimensions of a body in the direction of 
motion by a factor of gamma minus one all over gamma. 
ANSWER: length  
contraction 
 [or Lorentz-FitzGerald  
contraction 
] 
[10] The Lorentz factor also gives the ratio of the differential of measured time to that of proper time. For a 
given body, the proper time is the time measured in this way. 
ANSWER:  
in the body's own reference frame 
 [or  
in the body's own coordinates 
; or  
in the reference 
frame in which the body is stationary 
; or other equivalents] 
022-09-12-15217 
18. The younger brother of one of these figures once grew angry at a painter who included a lifesized 
portrait of that figure in the middle of an erotic gallery. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this group of figures that include the supposed woman Mallinath and the first, Rishabh Dev, 
who lived several sextillion years ago. 
ANSWER:  
tirthankar 
as [or  
jina 
; or  
fordmaker 
s] 
[10] The twenty-fourth and most famous tirthankar was this figure formerly known as Vardhamana, who 
established the precepts of asteya and bramacharya. 
ANSWER:  
Mahavira 
[10] Mahavira attained enlightenment on this festival day which commemorates the defeat of Ravana and 
the return of a Guru to Amritsar, and sees the lighting of a lot of lights. 
ANSWER:  
Diwali 
 [or  
Dipavali 
] 
020-09-12-15218 
19. One person staying at this location is made to learn French to earn her keep. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this location in which husband-acquiring skills are taught to characters like Amelia Sedley. It is 
contrasted with Dr. Swishtail’s school and is the opening location of a novel. 
ANSWER:  
Miss Pinkerton’s 
 Minerva House  
Academy 
 For Young Ladies [accept equivalents for 
Academy, such as  
school 
] 
[10] Miss Pinkerton’s Academy is the opening location of this Thackeray novel about Becky Sharp, whose 
friend Amelia almost marries Captain Dobbin, but decides on George Osborne instead. 
ANSWER:  
Vanity Fair : A Novel Without a Hero 
[10] For a while, Becky’s husband is this army captain and son of Old Sir Pitt, who lived a lavish life with 
Becky in Brighton before returning alive from the Battle of Waterloo. 
ANSWER:  
Rawdon 
 Crawley [prompt on  
Crawley 
] 
020-09-12-15219 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  11 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. One side in this conflict was based on Mount Othrys. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this massive war fought primarily in Thessaly, whose first battles were fought after Cronus 
vomited up four of his swallowed children. 
ANSWER:  
Titanomachy 
 [or War of the  
Titans 
] 
[10] This goddess was the first to be swallowed by Cronus and last to be disgorged, and relinquished her 
Olympian throne so that she could permanently watch over the hearth. 
ANSWER:  
Hestia 
 [or  
Vesta 
] 
[10] In some myths, this consort of Zeus concocted the potion that was given to Cronus. More famously, 
Zeus tricked this woman into turning into a fly and swallowed her, but could not bear her hammering a 
helmet inside his body. 
ANSWER:  
Metis 
022-09-12-15220 
21. The rebellion on board this ship inspired Frederick Douglass's novella  
The Heroic Slave. 
 For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this ship where slaves led by Madison Washington rebelled and gained their freedom in the 
British-controlled port of Nassau in 1841. 
ANSWER: the  
Creole 
[10] The tensions between Britain and the United States caused by the  
Creole 
 rebellion were lessened by 
this 1842 treaty, which clearly defined the borders separating Maine and New Brunswick. It resulted in the 
United States gaining control of the Arostook Valley. 
ANSWER:  
Webster-Ashburton 
 Treaty 
[10] The original border between those territories was established by this 1783 treaty, in which Britain 
acknowledged the independence of the United States. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Paris 
004-09-12-15221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 15     Page  12 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
