NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 TOSSUPS  
1. A particularly advanced type of these devices was first developed by Ernst Ruska and applied  
to new fields by his brother Helmut. The name of these devices was believed to have been coined  
by Giovanni Farber, after a different scientist presented one of these called the \"occhiolino\" to  
Federico Cresi. That example of these devices was based on one invented by Cornelius Drebbel.  
Jan Swammerdam pioneered the use of these devices as part of a dissection, and another pioneer  
of these devices used it to write the first scientific best-seller published by the Royal Society of  
London. For 10 points, name these devices used by Anton van Leeuwenhoek and Robert Hooke,  
the latter of whom used it to image cork and discover the cell.  
ANSWER:  microscope  [or electron  microscope ; or light  microscope ]  
2. This poet wrote, \"The eye's plain version is a thing apart, the vulgate of experience\" in one  
long poem. He noted, “until now I never knew that fluttering things have so distinct a shade,\" in  
the final stanza of a poem addressed to the “mother of heaven, regina of the clouds.” This poet of  
An Ordinary Evening in New Haven  addressed Ramon Fernandez in the penultimate stanza of a  
poem about a woman who “sang beyond the genius of the sea.\" Another of this author’s speakers  
asks, “Why do you imagine golden birds?” of the “thin men of Haddam.” For 10 points, name  
this poet whose first collection,  Harmonium,  includes \"The Idea of Order at Key West\" and  
“Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”  
ANSWER: Wallace  Stevens   
3. Passengers are now banned from riding on the roof of trains to Alausi along this country's  
Nariz del Diablo, or Devil's Nose railroad. This city's capital contains an winged aluminum  
statue of the Virgin Mary stepping on a snake on Panecillo hill. This country's fastest-growing  
city shares a name with Manta Bay on its coast. This country sued Chevron for extensively  
polluting around the Napo oil formation in the Lago Agrio region. Because the Earth is an oblate  
spheroid, the peak farthest from the earth's center is in this country, which owns Isabela island  
and the finches thereon. For 10 points, name this country home to the Cotopaxi and Chimborazo  
volcanoes, which owns the Galapagos Islands.  
ANSWER: Republic of  Ecuador  [or República del  Ecuador ]  
4. In a ceremony initiating a person into this role, a chorus chants \"Bene, bene, bene respondere\"  
after it is noted that a \"virtus dormativa\" gives opium poppies the power to make people sleepy.  
Purgon is one of these people who works with Thomas Diaforius's father in that French comedy,  
which ends with gypsies impersonating these people chanting fake Latin. In another play, one of  
these people helps Lucinde. In that play partly titled for this profession, the drunken woodcutter  
Sganarelle becomes one of these people \"in spite of himself.\" These people fail to help a  
character who was played by a tubercular Moliere on the day he died. For 10 points, name these  
people who try to treat Argan in  The Imaginary Invalid.   
ANSWER:  doctor s [or  physician s; or  médicin ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 TOSSUPS  
5. The two halves of this structure are bridged and partly held together by the dimerization of  
SUN and KASH domains. Proteins that support the inner surface of this structure are mutated in  
Hutchinson-Gilford progeria. Proteins traversing this structure do so via the Ran-GTP cycle. This  
structure is traversed by a series of complexes containing proteins with phenylalanine-glycine  
repeats, known as its namesake pore complexes. The space between the two halves of this  
structure is contiguous with the endoplasmic reticulum, and this structure is disassembled during  
prophase and reassembled in telophase. For 10 points, name this structure that consists of two  
lipid bilayers, which surrounds an organelle that contains chromatin and DNA.  
ANSWER:  nuclear membrane  [or  nuclear envelope ; prompt on  nucleus ]  
6. People undergoing this process were given a single red cloak each year, and pulled reeds out  
by hand from the Eurotas river. Membership in a  syssitia  was granted after completing this  
process. Early failures in this process were put on Mount Taygetus. Eurypontids and Agaids  
were exempted from this process due to their place in the two royal families. According to  
Thucydides, the place which enacted this process had a cautious, slow national character. In a  
violent part of this process called the  krypteia , participants in this process had to kill a helot with  
impunity. For 10 points, name this system which, after exposing unfit infants to the elements,  
reared almost all other males in a militaristic ancient Greek city-state.  
ANSWER:  agoge  [accept descriptive answers which refer to the  education , military  training ,  
coming of age , etc. of  Sparta n boys]  
7. A tensor product of two objects named for this man is isometrically isomorphic to a space of  
operators named for him and Schmidt. Wrightman's axioms suggest that a construct named for  
this man exists that is acted upon by the Poincaré group in a unitary manner. A result named for  
this man states that a polynomial ring over a Noetherian ring is itself Noetherian. A finite- or- 
infinite dimensional space in which an inner product is defined is named for this man. A problem  
in this man's program was shown to be impossible by Godel's incompleteness theorem, and he  
included the continuum hypothesis and the Riemann hypothesis in another outline of work for  
the next century. For 10 points, name this German mathematician who laid out a list of 23  
difficult-to-solve problems at the beginning of the 20th century.  
ANSWER: David  Hilbert   
8. Many prefer Ferruccio Busoni's arpeggio-less transcription of this piece to the comparably  
popular one by Carl Tausig. Different theories posit that this piece was originally written for  
unaccompanied violin and that its unusual features owe to the limitations of an instrument the  
composer had to work with in Anhalt-Cothen. A different piece with the same name, key, and  
composer as this one is nicknamed the \"Dorian.\" This piece begins with a mordant A in both  
hands, followed by a rapid descending G-F-E-D-C sharp, then D. The contrapuntal second title  
portion of this D minor piece is interspersed with the more virtuosic style of the first title section.  
For 10 points, name this spooky organ piece composed by J.S. Bach.  
ANSWER:  Toccata and Fugue  in D minor  [or  BWV 565 ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 TOSSUPS  
9. This man resigned after it was revealed he leaked Cabinet debates to French Minister Joseph  
Fauchet and expressed \"contempt for the United States.\" This member of the Committee of  
Detail voted for ratification at his state's convention, despite being an anti-Federalist writer prior.  
This man's son Peyton succeeded to the governorship after the Richmond Theatre Fire. This  
person officially put forth a plan calling for a legislative branch to be represented in proportion to  
population. This proponent of the Virginia Plan at the Constitutional Convention succeeded  
Thomas Jefferson as Secretary of State. For 10 points, name this first Attorney General under  
George Washington.  
ANSWER: Edmund Jennings  Randolph   
10. A poem about this man opens with him looking at an open gate and an unlocked door and  
\"sorely weeping.\" George de Scudery and others critiqued a play about his man for fitting an  
implausible number of events into a single day. This man humiliates the Counts of Carrion by  
grabbing an escaped lion by the neck and putting it back in its cage. In a 1636 play, this man kills  
the count of Gormas, a fact which becomes an obstacle as he seeks to marry Chimène. The most  
famous play titled for this character skips over his service to the king of Saragossa on the  
Moorish side. For 10 points, name this subject of a Pierre Corneille play and a medieval Spanish  
poema,  a legendary exiled knight of the Reconquista.  
ANSWER: El  Cid  [or Le  Cid ; or Mio  Cid ; or El Cid  Campeador ; or Don Rodrigo  Díaz  de  
Vivar; or Don  Rodrigue ]   
11. This work claims, adapting Aristotle, that \"man is by his constitution a religious animal.\" Its  
author recalls a time sixteen or seventeen years ago when he saw a young queen \"glittering like  
the morning star full of life and splendor and joy\" before lamenting that chivalry is dead. This  
book was largely a response to sermons by Richard Price. Thomas Paine's  The Rights of Man  
replied to this book, which praised the Glorious Revolution for being a slight change that  
preserved tradition, instead of destroying tradition and inviting anarchy as recent events seemed  
to be doing. For 10 points, name this 1790 political text by Edmund Burke.  
ANSWER:  Reflections on the Revolution in France   
12. This character warns, “Time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides; who cover faults, at  
last shame them derides.\" A man tells this character that in prison they will “sing like birds i' th'  
cage” and laugh at the “gilded butterflies” trying to succeed in court. She marries the male hero  
in a rewriting by Nahum Tate of the play in which she appears. In another character's last  
entrance, he carries this woman's body and cries, “Howl, howl, howl, howl!” This character  
marries the King of France after getting in trouble for telling her father she loves him, “according  
to my bond; no more nor less,” when that man is dividing his kingdom among his three  
daughters. For 10 points, name this youngest daughter of King Lear.  
ANSWER:  Cordelia 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 TOSSUPS  
13. An essay titled for this man ends, \"Let Hell loose, and get your own back, Europe!\" That  
essay was written by D.H. Lawrence in his  Studies on Classic American Literature  and  
lambastes this individual's idea of the \"Perfectability of Man.\" A long summary of this person's  
\"philosophy of avarice\" is used to explain the origin of capitalism in Max Weber's  Protestant  
Ethic.  A classic example of cognitive dissonance is this man's namesake effect, in which doing a  
favor for an enemy makes you more likely to do him another favor. This man's list of Thirteen  
Virtues appear in his unfinished autobiography published in 1791. For 10 points, name this  
Enlightenment thinker known as the \"First American\" who published  Poor Richard's Almanack.   
ANSWER: Benjamin  Franklin   
14. Aaron Curry recently displayed a series of fourteen sculptures called  Melt to Earth  at this  
complex. One building in this complex was designed by Pietro Belluschi and Eduardo Catalano  
and contains an entryway underneath a triangular corner. Another building in this complex  
contains an Elie Nadelman sculpture called \"Circus Women\" in its promenade. The sculptures  
Summer Venus without Arms ,  , and  Kneeling Woman  by Aristide Malliol flank the Grand  
Staircase of a building in this complex. This complex contains the Avery Fisher Hall and the  
Philip Johnson-designed David H. Koch Theater. For 10 points, name this complex of buildings  
in Manhattan that includes Julliard, the New York City Ballet, and the Metropolitan Opera.  
ANSWER:  Lincoln Center  for the Performing Arts [reverse-prompt on  Metropolitan Opera  or  
Met  until it is read]  
15. The background of this painting contains one house set apart from three in a row, as well as a  
wall being climbed by a man trying to get away from the scene. A mirror image of this painting  
forms most of the backdrop to the best-known self-portrait by its artist. This artwork emphasizes  
the pinkish-white garb of a woman who is facing away from the viewer and looking at the  
ground, and who is joined at the bottom-left by two similarly penitent women. Like a more  
coastal, gloomier counterpart, this painting was produced during its artist's time in Pont-Aven in  
the Breton countryside, two years before he decided to escape European civilization and move to  
Tahiti. For 10 points, name this non-green depiction of the Crucifixion by Paul Gauguin.  
ANSWER:  The  Yellow Christ  [or  Le  Christ Jaune ]  
16. Cicero claimed that a priest of this god was not allowed to touch or name goats, raw meat,  
ivy or beans. Numa Pompilius tricked this god into accepting sacrifices of onions, hair, and fish  
instead of humans. The flamen dialis and the fetial priests were dedicated to this god, who turned  
Juturna into a pool of water. This god, whose aspects have epithets like \"tonans\" and \"fulgur,\"  
was represented by an oak tree. He tells Venus the future history of Rome in the first book of the  
Aeneid . A temple on the Capitoline was dedicated to his aspect \"Optimus Maximus.\" For 10  
points, name this chief Roman god.  
ANSWER:  Jupiter  [or  Jove ; prompt on  Zeus ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 TOSSUPS  
17. Alain Chartier denounced an institution founded in this region for naming itself after a pagan  
object, which was re-identified with an item owned by Gideon. This region got its name from  
barbarians led by Godomar and Gundobad, the latter of whom issued its namesake law code in  
the 5th century CE, and it organized the Order of the Golden Fleece. One leader of this region  
put his brother Charles, duke of Berry, in charge of the League of the Public Weal. This duchy's  
power faded at Nancy in 1477, when Charles the Bold died in battle against forces of the  
\"Spider-King,\" Louis XI. At its height, this duchy claimed land as far north as Flanders. For 10  
points, name this historical region of eastern France that produces dark red wine.  
ANSWER:  Burgundy  [or  Bourgogne ]  
18. Spherically symmetric solutions to this equation must be static, according to one of  
Birkhoff's theorems. Kasner dusts satisfy this statement as an example of a perfect fluid with  
vanishing pressure. A constant factor of eight pi times big G over c to the fourth appears in this  
equation. The Kerr-Newman metric satisfies this equation when charge and angular momentum  
are nonzero. The FLRW metric is an isotropic solution to it. In this equation, the metric tensor  
multiplies the cosmological constant, a term which this equation's namesake claimed was his  
\"biggest blunder\". Schwarzschild's solution of it gives gravity outside a spherical mass. For 10  
points, name this set of ten equations often written in tensor form, created by the physicist who  
theorized general relativity.  
ANSWER: Einstein's  field  equations [or  EFE ]  
19. A holder of this political office had earlier led militants in the Virunga Mountains after the  
death of Fred Rwigyema. Another holder of it was banned from forming the Party of Democratic  
Renewal, and was imprisoned on embezzlement charges in 2004. The RTLM radio station  
incited violence after the death of one of these people, who signed the Arusha Accords. Its  
current holder served as intelligence chief for Yoweri Museveni in Uganda before joining a  
Patriotic Front that invaded his home country. A holder of this post was killed when the plane he  
and Cyprien Ntaryamira were riding in was shot down, setting off genocide between Hutus and  
Tutsis in his country. For 10 points, name this political office currently held by Paul Kagame.  
ANSWER: President of  Rwanda   
20. Alexander III may be the source of a legend about one of these people named Andreas who  
became Pope. Edgardo Mortara was one of these people, who was controversially made a ward  
of the state. Until 1955, the intercession for them on Good Friday was the only intercession  
where the congregation did not kneel. That prayer asked God to \"remove the veil\" from these  
people's hearts.  Nostra Aetate  declared these people should not be \"presented as rejected or  
accursed by God.\" These people were deported during the Roman razzia. In the Gospel of John,  
these people demand the death of Jesus. Pius XII was accused of condoning their genocide  
during World War II. For 10 points, name these people that read the Torah.  
ANSWER:  Jew ish people 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 TOSSUPS  
21. Archibald Hill's empirical equation modelling this process gives an inverse relationship  
between force and velocity. Activation of dihydropyridine receptors in L-type calcium channels  
signals for this process to occur. According to the most common model of this process, ATP  
binding causes S1 to \"cock\", but then ATP hydrolysis causes it to lengthen as part of the power  
stroke. Huxley and Niedergerke proposed the sliding filament model of this process, in which  
cross-bridges force the Z bands closer to each other. Acetylcholine is required for activation of  
this process, during which the myosin head slides along actin. In tetanus, this process is never  
turned off. For 10 points, name this process in which sarcomeres are voluntarily stretched or  
compressed, such as when you stretch a biceps.  
ANSWER:  muscle contraction  [or  muscle tension ; or  concentric contraction ; or obvious  
equivalents; prompt on  muscle movement ]  
22. This man wrote a one-act in which a new lamp lights up a seedy street called  Lux in  
Tenebris.  A conversation this man had with Mark Blitzstein about \"prostitution\" in society  
inspired the Orson Welles-directed labor musical  The Cradle Will Rock.  In another of his plays,  
the apparently-dead Jussup pops back to life as soon as he hears that the draft is over, and an  
army called the Iron Shirts forces a woman to flee Georgia with her baby. This man employed  
the \"distancing effect,\" a principle of \"epic theater,\" and depicted Judge Azdak ruling in Grusha's  
favor in a maternity dispute. For 10 points, name this leftist German dramatist who wrote  The  
Caucasian Chalk Circle  and  Mother Courage and Her Children.  
ANSWER:  Bertolt  Brecht   
23.  Luigi Albertini's thesis about this event was challenged by Fritz Fischer, who used the  
Septemberprogramm as evidence of goals in it. A recent book by Christopher Clark claims to  
explain the “how” but not the “why” of this event. Arno Mayer argued that this event's cause was  
less foreign policy and more the aristocracy's attempt to maintain domestic power. Politicians  
after this event ended blamed its outcome on the “November Criminals.” Erich Ludendorff  
promulgated the Dolchstoss myth about its end, which claimed Jews and communists had  
undermined the government's efforts. For 10 points, name this event whose loser was assigned  
responsibility in the war guilt clause of the Treaty of Versailles.  
ANSWER:  World War I  [or the  Great War ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 BONUSES  
1. For a hollow sphere, this quantity has a factor of 2/3, but for a solid sphere, the factor is 2/5.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this rotational analogue of mass.  
ANSWER:  moment of inertia  [or  rotational inertia ]  
[10] Consider a rigid body of mass m. A parallel axis, located a distance d away from the axis  
through the center of mass, is drawn. In terms of m and d, by how much does the moment of  
inertia about this new axis increase?  
ANSWER:  m  times  d squared  [or  md^2 ]  
[10] A tensor for moment of inertia is dotted with the angular velocity to calculate the  
components of torque in a set of equations named for this physicist. He also names a special case  
of the Navier-Stokes equation for zero viscosity and heat conduction.  
ANSWER: Leonhard  Euler   
2. A fade-out effect in this movement was achieved by placing several performers in an  
adjoining room, the door to which was carefully closed during the last bar. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this movement, the only in its larger composition to be originally be scored for solo  
organ, that includes two wordless three-part women's choruses.  
ANSWER: \" Neptune , the Mystic\"  
[10] \"Neptune\" is the last movement of this composer's  The Planets.   
ANSWER: Gustav  Holst  [or Gustavus Theodore von  Holst ]  
[10] The melody of this middle movement of  The Planets,  subtitled \"The Bringer of Jollity,\" was  
adapted into the hymn tune \"Thaxted,\" which fit the patriotic poem \"I Vow to Thee My  
Country.\"  
ANSWER: \" Jupiter , the Bringer of Jollity\"  
3. Name these leaders of South American countries, for 10 points each.  
[10] After being jailed for an unsuccessful 1992 coup against Carlos Andres Perez, this  
Venezuelan president, who died in 2013, was elected with the support of the Fifth Republic  
Movement.  
ANSWER: Hugo Rafael  Chavez  Frias  
[10] This half-Bulgarian leader of the Workers' Party succeeded Lula as president of Brazil.  
ANSWER: Dilma Vana  Rousseff   
[10] This woman served as a pediatrician before defeating Sebastian Pinera in a 2006 election,  
but lost a 2010 rematch.  
ANSWER: Michelle  Bachelet 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 BONUSES  
4. Cells located in this structure have a unique ion channel that is gated by cyclic GMP, and  
flame hemorrhages appear in this structure in people with diabetes. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this structure located in the back of the eye that contains photosensitive rod and cone  
cells.  
ANSWER:  retina   
[10] This test, which consists of numbers written with colored dots, is used to diagnose color  
blindness.  
ANSWER:  Ishihara  test  
[10] This genetic disease is caused by mutations in the cGMP-binding subunit of the  
aforementioned ion channel. Unlike macular degeneration, vision is lost in the periphery first in  
this disease.  
ANSWER:  retinitis pigmentosa  [or  RP ]  
5. One of these writings contains the maxim \"What is done in love, is well done,\" and another  
expresses the author's desire to found an artists' colony in Southern France. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these 844 writings, the majority of which were addressed to their author's brother  
Theo.  
ANSWER: Vincent  van Gogh's letter s  
[10] A staggering thirteen of van Gogh's letters were about this painting of his, which exists in  
three versions that differ in the placement of furniture and wall paintings in the title location  
within the Yellow House.  
ANSWER:  Bedroom in Arles   
[10] Van Gogh roped Gauguin into a \"pact of silence\" in the first letter he wrote after this  
incident, which he supposedly underwent so that he could give a prostitute a bizarre gift.  
Afterwards, he painted a famous bandaged self-portrait.  
ANSWER:  cutting his ear off  [or equivalent answers such as  amputating his ear ]  
6. At the end of Act 1, this character walks out on his estranged family, playing \"My ducats and  
my daughter\" on the trombone. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this character who angers his charitable daughter Barbara by buying out the Salvation  
Army, then convinces her to take over his munitions business.  
ANSWER: Andrew  Undershaft  [or  Andrew  Undershaft]  
[10]  Major Barbara  was written by this dramatist who also wrote  Arms and the Man.   
ANSWER: George Bernard  Shaw   
[10] Undershaft only agrees to hand over the business when he finds out that this character,  
Barbara's husband, is actually a foundling, even though he's a scholar of Greek.  
ANSWER: Adolphus  Cusins  [or  Adolphus  Cusins] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 BONUSES  
7. James Frazer distinguished between the homeopathic and contagious forms of a \"sympathetic\"  
form of this concept, which is based on the principle that like produces like. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this concept, which Frazer placed before the religious and the scientific as the first  
stage in human belief. Malinowski described its intimate connection with language in a book on  
its use in Trobriand gardening.  
ANSWER:  magic  [or word forms]  
[10] With Henri Hubert, this anthropologist outlined a general theory of magic. He is better  
known for a book which analyses the potlatch and the Maori  hau,  and describes its central  
practice as a \"total social fact.\"  
ANSWER: Marcel  Mauss   
[10] This anthropologist describes how magic boosted the status of Malagasy slave descendants  
in his dissertation. He also wrote  Fragments of an Anarchist Anthropology  and  Debt: The First  
5000 Years.  
ANSWER:  David Rolfe  Graeber   
8. This man led the “Spear of the Nation,” the militant wing of the African National Congress.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this South African leader who became president in 1994 after spending 27 years in  
prison.  
ANSWER: Nelson  Mandela   
[10] Mandela spent much of his incarceration on this island, at a facility that also imprisoned  
Jacob Zuma and Govan Mbeki.  
ANSWER:  Robben  Island  
[10] Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu, and other ANC leaders were tried at this trial that took  
place in 1963 and 1964.  
ANSWER:  Rivonia  Trial  
9. This poem's protagonist is betrayed by his stepfather Ganelon. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Old French poem in which the title paladin of Charlemagne blows a horn to call  
for aid against the Saracens until his temples burst. It fictionalizes the battle of Roncesvalles.  
ANSWER:  The  Song of Roland  [or  La  Chanson de Roland ]  
[10]  The Song of Roland  is one of these Old French poems about heroic deeds, which preceded  
the more courtly poems of the troubadours.  
ANSWER:  chanson s de  geste   
[10] This Saracen king, who rules from Saragossa, sends the pagan army to Roncesvalles. This  
ally of Babylon's emir Baligant loses a hand and his queen Bramimonde as Charlemagne  
avenges Roland's death.  
ANSWER:  Marsilla  [or  Marsille ; or  Marsilion ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 BONUSES  
10. A test named for this man shows that a sequence of functions whose values are all less than  
the positive values of a converging sequence will converge uniformly. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this mathematician, who with an American names a theorem proving on a closed  
interval, any continuous function can be approximated arbitrarily close by a polynomial.  
ANSWER: Karl  Weierstrass   
[10] Weierstrass also names a function that is continuous everywhere but possesses this property  
nowhere. The mean value theorem holds for functions continuous on a closed interval and  
possessing this property on the open interval.  
ANSWER:  differentiable  [or the  derivative  exists; or obvious equivalents]  
[10] A function will equal its Taylor series if it possesses this property. Functions with this  
property are differentiable for all orders, which can be symbolized C raised to infinity.  
ANSWER:  smooth   
11. This family is commented upon sardonically by Cora and Vernon Tull, the latter of whom  
watches them cross a river in which Cash breaks his leg. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this dirt-poor family which seeks to bury its matriarch Addie in the county seat of  
Jefferson. It includes Darl and his illegitimate brother Jewel.  
ANSWER:  Bundren  family  
[10] The Bundren family appears in this novel by William Faulkner, whose many point-of-view  
chapters include one from Addie Bundren beyond the grave.  
ANSWER:  As I Lay Dying   
[10] Anse Bundren, the family patriarch, is largely motivated not by the need to bury his wife,  
but by his desire to obtain a new wife and buy these items for himself in Jefferson.  
ANSWER: a new set of false  teeth  [or  dentures ]  
12. The Main Divide is a range within the Southern Alps in this non-European country. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this country which controls the Chatham Islands.  
ANSWER:  New Zealand   
[10] North and South Island are separated by this strait. The capital city of Wellington lies on  
this body of water, named for an English explorer.  
ANSWER:  Cook  Strait  
[10] This is the main city in the South Island's Canterbury Plains. It is named after a part of the  
University of Oxford.  
ANSWER:  Christchurch 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 BONUSES  
13. Memnon of Heraclea claims that this kingdom’s ruler King Bas defeated Calas, one of  
Alexander’s generals. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this kingdom whose ruler Nicomedes I founded the city of Nicomedia. Its last king,  
Nicomedes IV, bequeathed the kingdom to Rome at his death.  
ANSWER:  Bithynia   
[10] After defeating Nicomedes IV and his Roman allies, this man slaughtered Roman settlers in  
the massacre of the Asiatic Vespers. This king of Pontus fought a series of three wars with the  
Romans.  
ANSWER:  Mithridates VI  [or  Mithridates Eupator  Dionysius]  
[10] Mithridates VI was eventually defeated by this member of the First Triumvirate. He was  
killed in Egypt and his head was presented to Caesar.  
ANSWER:  Pompey  the Great [or Gnaeus  Pompeius  Magnus]  
14. Answer these questions about riots which rocked France in late 2005 as unrest among young  
people of North African descent boiled over, for 10 points each.  
[10] This person, then Interior Minister, dealt with weeks of riots in October and November  
2005. He then defeated Segolene Royal in a 2007 election to become President of France.  
ANSWER: Nicolas  Sarkozy   
[10] The rioters targeted these objects for special destruction. In East Germany, these things  
included the poorly-designed Trabant.  
ANSWER:  car s  
[10] The riots broke out first in these residential areas surrounding Paris, whose name connotes  
poverty, unlike American suburbs. Immigrants are often pushed into housing projects called  
HLMs in these areas.  
ANSWER:  banlieue s  
15. Answer these questions about the minutia of Jewish holiday observance, for 10 points each.  
[10] Hillel and Shammai argued over how to light this object on Hanukkah. Jews today add  
candles each day from right to left, then light them from left to right using the  shamash.   
ANSWER: Hanukkah  menorah  [or  hanukkiyah ]  
[10] Judaism traditionally defines nightfall, and thereby the start and end of Shabbat, by the  
presence of this visual astronomical marker.  
ANSWER: when  three stars  are visible in the sky [or the appearance of the  third star  in the  
night sky]  
[10] This term for the whole body of Jewish law, including the commandments of the Torah and  
rabbinic dictates, provides details governing the observance of most holidays.  
ANSWER:  halakha h 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 BONUSES  
16. Leopold Stokowski was convinced to conduct at one of these places in Philadelphia with the  
opportunity to play the largest pipe organ in the United States. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these retail places that included Wanamaker's and Macy's. Traditionally they sold a  
wide variety of consumer goods in a single location.  
ANSWER:  department store s  
[10] In 1936, Congress passed this law to outlaw price discrimination that might give large retail  
chains an advantage over independent stores.  
ANSWER:  Robinson-Patman  Act  
[10] One of the earliest department stores was this one in Chicago that began as mail order  
company. Its property was seized by US troops in 1944 when its president refused to comply  
with the War Labor Board and recognize its union.  
ANSWER:  Montgomery Ward   
17. Linus Pauling proposed a hexagonal ring structure for this substance's Ih phase. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this substance whose Ic phase contains oxygen atoms in a diamond shape. Its low- 
density amorphous phase probably constitutes noctilucent clouds.  
ANSWER:  ice  [do not accept water or other wrong answers]  
[10] Many phases of ice, including Ih, III, V, and VI, undergo dielectric relaxation because they  
are disordered structures. This physicist derived a relation for the frequency dependence of the  
orientation polarization in dielectric relaxation.  
ANSWER: Peter  Debye   
[10] Water, ice, and water vapor all coexist at this point on their phase diagram, where a gas,  
liquid, and solid are capable of coexisting.  
ANSWER:  triple  point  
18. This man hung from Yggdrassil for nine days to learn the language of runes. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this one-eyed god, the supreme god of the Norse pantheon.  
ANSWER:  Odin  [or  Wotan ]  
[10] Odin uses his trickery to obtain the mead of poetry, made from the remains of this wise  
Norse god after Fjalar and Galar killed him.  
ANSWER:  Kvasir   
[10] Kvasir is born during a truce after the Aesir-Vanir war, when the Aesir and Vanir all donate  
some of this substance and mix it together.  
ANSWER:  saliva  [or  spit ; prompt on  water ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 12 BONUSES  
19. In one scene in this play, two characters pretend to drive through a flock of butterflies at 100  
miles per hour. For ten points each:  
[10] Name this play in which Zachariah tries to get his lighter-skinned brother Morris to pose as  
him and meet his white pen-pal.  
ANSWER:  Blood Knot   
[10]  Blood Knot  is a work of this South African playwright who also wrote about racism in  
Master Harold...and the Boys.   
ANSWER: Athol  Fugard   
[10]  Blood Knot  opens with Zach discovering that Morrie has bought a cheaper brand of this  
product instead of Dr. Schultz’s. Zach uses this product because of his work as a gatekeeper at a  
zoo.  
ANSWER: bath  salt s [or obvious equivalents]  
20. Answer the following about the sculptural output of people who were primarily painters, for  
10 points each.  
[10] Not even for his sole sculpture,  Little Dancer of Fourteen Years,  could this man depart from  
his fixation on underage ballerinas.  
ANSWER: Hilaire Germain Edgar  Degas   
[10] This bronze sculpture of a man holding a quirt in one hand and a \"fistful of mane\" with the  
other was made by the painter of countless images of hostile Native Americans.  
ANSWER:  Bronco Buster  [or  Broncho Buster ]  
[10] This city provides the nickname of both a climbable Cubist sculpture by Picasso and a fork- 
incorporating construction originally called  The Sun, the Moon, and One Star.  
ANSWER:   Chicago  [or  Chicago  Picasso; or Miro's  Chicago ]  
21. This man presented his interpretation of James Joyce's  Finnegans Wake  in  A Shorter  
Finnegans Wake.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this author of  Earthly Powers,  a British writer and literary critic who depicted a  
prostitute named \"Lucy Negro\" among the lovers of Shakespeare in his novel  Nothing Like the  
Sun.  
ANSWER:  Anthony  Burgess  [or John Anthony  Burgess  Wilson]  
[10] Anthony Burgess invented the Russian-based slang jargon Nadsat for this dystopian novel,  
in which the teenager Alex commits \"ultra-violence\" with his gang of droogs.  
ANSWER:  A  Clockwork Orange   
[10]  A Clockwork Orange  opens in one of these locales called Korova, where young hoodlums  
ask for drugs such as synthemesc to be added to an otherwise harmless beverage.  
ANSWER:  milk bar s 
