National History Bowl 11 
Round 17 
First Quarter 
1. This text advocates an open “community of women” rather than the hypocrisy of men seducing each 
others’ wives. Near its end, it states, “their ends can be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all 
existing social conditions” and “they have a world to win.” For 10 points, name this document that 
concludes “working men of all countries, unite” and was written in 1848 by Friedrich Engels and Karl 
Marx. 
ANSWER: the  
Communist Manifesto 
 [or the  
Manifesto of the Communist Party 
; or  
Manifest der 
Kommunistischen Partei 
] 
019-11-31-17101 
2. The Conflictus Gallicus order re-introduced this activity in England after it had been banned by Henry II. 
This activity was also called \"tilting\" after a barrier between participants was introduced. Henry II of 
France died from wounds suffered in this activity. For 10 points, name this activity that often featured 
mock battles between two knights trying to unhorse each other with lances. 
ANSWER:  
joust 
ing [or  
joust 
ing tournaments or contests or similar; prompt on  
tilt 
ing before mentioned] 
003-11-31-17102 
3. The leader of this group wrote a piece for orchestra, chorus and narrator which ends with \"Shema 
Yisroel\" and depicts a scene in the title ghetto,  
A Survivor from Warsaw 
. The Nazis condemned this 
avant-garde group as \"degenerate art,\" and two of its most famous pupils were Alban Berg and Anton von 
Webern. For 10 points, name this Arnold Schoenberg-led group of serialist composers who were named for 
an Austrian city. 
ANSWER:  
Second Viennese 
 School [prompt on  
Viennese 
 School; prompt on  
Vienna 
] 
082-11-31-17103 
4. This man divided humans into a productive class, a proprietary class, and a sterile class. This man's  
Tableau Economique 
 was initially published under the pseudonym of the Marquis de Mirabeau. He argued 
for the replacement of the  
taille 
 with a flat tax on landowners, and founded a school that argued that a 
nation's \"net product\" was entirely in agriculture. For 10 points, name this leader of the Physiocrats. 
ANSWER: François  
Quesnay 
003-11-31-17104 
5. The so called “Children’s Crusade” in this state caused Malcolm X to say, “Real men don't put their 
children on the firing line.” One of its cities had a Commissioner of Public Safety named Bull Connor. 
Vivian Malone Jones and James Hood were temporarily blocked in their attempt to enter a university in this 
state by its governor standing in the schoolhouse door. For 10 points, name this state governed by George 
Wallace. 
ANSWER:  
Alabama 
015-11-31-17105 
6. Notable examples of these items were created by Lydia Pinkham and Clark Stanley. Angostura bitters 
were originally sold as one of them, and their active ingredients were generally alcohol, cocaine, and heroin 
rather than the herbs prominently featured in their advertisements. For 10 points, give the general term for 
these preparations, such as Snake Oil Liniment, which boasted outrageous curative powers but were 
normally fraudulent. 
ANSWER:  
patent medicine 
s 
082-11-31-17106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. Mother Shipton claimed that one who could see Long Compton after taking seven steps might acquire 
this status. Holders of this office must be direct descendants of Sophia of the Palatinate and must not ever 
have been, nor ever been married to, a Catholic, as per the 1701 Act of Settlement that conferred this status 
upon Anne. For 10 points, name this office which was abdicated from only once, by Edward VIII in 1936. 
ANSWER:  
monarch 
 of the  nited  ingdom [or  
U K king 
 of the  nited  ingdom; or  
U K queen 
 of the  nited  
U K 
ingdom; accept  
England 
 or Great  
Britain 
 in place of the United Kingdom in any answer; accept any 
reasonable equivalents] 
019-11-31-17107 
8. The region of this name was the home to the ancient kingdoms of Sennar and Dongola and is named for 
an Arabic term for \"land of the black peoples.\" That region extends west to east across Africa between the 
Sahara Desert and the equatorial rain forest. The southern part of a country by this name will become 
independent in July. For 10 points, name this large country south of Egypt, which is also the location of 
Darfur. 
ANSWER: the  
Sudan 
019-11-31-17108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 17 
Second Quarter 
1.  
Opponents of this legislation included Jeremiah Everts and Davy Crockett, as well as Samuel 
Worcester, the plaintiff in the case  Worcester v. (*)  Georgia 
. One treaty resulting from this legislation 
was the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek. More famously, this legislation resulted in the Treaty of New 
Echota; that treaty was enforced by Martin Van Buren, who sent Winfield Scott to create concentration 
camps. For 10 points, name this 1830 act passed by Andrew Jackson, which led to the forced relocation of 
the Cherokee in the Trail of Tears. 
ANSWER:  
Indian Removal 
 Act 
BONUS: Which tribe most notably resisted the Indian Removal Act, fighting a war with the United States 
from 1835-1842 to try and remain on their lands? 
ANSWER:  
Seminole 
s 
024-11-31-17101 
2.  
Sergey Prokudin-Gorsky, under the employ of Tsar Nicholas II, developed an alternative method 
to enhancing this invention. The “brownie” was a long-running product for a Rochester, New York 
company that helped popularize this invention. One improvement to this invention, the autochrome 
process, was developed by the Lumiere brothers. In America, men like Timothy O’Sullivan, George 
Barnard and Alexander Gardner were early adopters of this invention along with (*) 
 Mathew Brady. 
Early experiments with this invention included Thomas Eakins’ series on men jumping as well as 
Eadweard Muybridge’s investigation into the motion of a horse. One of the earliest forms of this invention 
was the daguerrotype. For 10 points, name this invention, whose other pioneers included George Eastman, 
creator of the Kodak. 
ANSWER:  
photograph 
y [prompt on  
camera 
] 
BONUS: This developer of the Zone System is known for his black-and-white photographs of the 
American West, especially Yosemite. 
ANSWER: Ansel  
Adams 
094-11-31-17102 
3.  
The chief source of information about this conflict is a book published by the lawyer Thomas 
Ruffin Gray. This conflict ended with skirmishes at Blunt’s Farm and Cross Keys, but one side’s 
leader eluded a two month long manhunt before finally being captured by Benjamin Phipps near 
Cabin Pond. That leader’s plan was to march to Jerusalem, the seat of Southampton County, before 
dispersing in the (*) 
 Great Dismal Swamp. That leader in this conflict was called “the Prophet” after a 
solar eclipse convinced him to begin the slaughter of over fifty white people. For 10 points, name this 
Virginia slave rebellion. 
ANSWER: Nat  
Turner 
’s Rebellion 
BONUS: The Stono Rebellion and the rebellion of Denmark Vesey both occurred in what U.S. state? 
ANSWER:  
South Carolina 
015-11-31-17103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
The part of this operation that was codenamed “Central Blow” targeted a cheese shop on the path 
from the Manege. Some historians have claimed that Vera Finger played a prominent role in 
planning this event because she desired to release another conspirator from prison. A failed earlier 
attempt prompted Viktor Hartmann to paint his plan for the Great Gate of Kiev. To commemorate 
this event, the Church of the Savior on Spilled Blood was erected. As a result of this event, a man 
who helped his family survive the Borki Train Disaster came to power, and it occurred only a few 
days before the target of this event was to have released a plan for a (*) 
 duma. This action was 
ultimately accomplished thanks to a bomb thrown by Ignacy Hryniewiecki, a member of the People’s Will. 
For 10 points, identify this action that brought about the death of the Russian tsar who freed the serfs. 
ANSWER:  
assassination 
 of Tsar  
Alexander II 
 [accept similar answers involving the death of  
Alexander 
II 
; prompt on answers mentioning  
Alexander 
 without a number] 
BONUS: Alexander II was preceded by what reactionary Romanov who served as tsar of Russia from 1825 
to 1855? 
ANSWER:  
Nicholas I 
 [prompt on  
Nicholas 
] 
094-11-31-17104 
5.  
The 1992 death of this city’s resident Malice Green during an arrest was scathingly attacked by its 
mayor Coleman Young. Malcolm X delivered his “Message to the Grass Roots” speech in this city, 
which was rocked by major race riots in 1943 and 1967. The Battle of Bloody Run and the siege of its 
namesake fort were central skirmishes in (*) 
 Pontiac’s Rebellion. This city’s suburb of Dearborn was 
the site of the Battle of the Overpass, in which security guards clashed with the United Auto Workers. For 
10 points, name this city whose 20th century history was molded by the Ford Motor Company. 
ANSWER:  
Detroit 
BONUS: The University of Michigan moved in 1837 from Detroit to what city? 
ANSWER:  
Ann Arbor 
015-11-31-17105 
6.  
Colley Cibber's adaptation of this work eliminated Queen Margaret, who curses the title character 
as a \"bottled spider.\" The title character of this play murders Clarence in the Tower of London and 
states that he is \"determined to prove a villain\" because of his (*) 
 hunchback. He dies at the Battle of 
Bosworth Field, exclaiming \"A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!\" For 10 points, name this 
Shakespeare history play in which the title monarch opens, \"Now is the winter of our discontent / made 
glorious summer by the son of York.\" 
ANSWER:  
Richard III 
BONUS: Richard, before becoming king, has what title? 
ANSWER: Duke of  
Gloucester 
082-11-31-17106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
This city was founded after the landing of the ship  Anne  at Yamacraw Bluff. Eli Whitney 
developed the cotton gin while tutoring the children of General Nathaniel Greene at their plantation 
outside this city. After it was taken by the British in 1788, a siege to retake this city was led by 
Benjamin Lincoln and saw the death of Casimir Pulaski. It was presented, with “about twenty-five 
thousand bales of cotton,” as a (*) 
 Christmas gift to Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points, name this terminus 
of Sherman’s March to the Sea, a Georgia port city. 
ANSWER:  
Savannah 
BONUS: This city on the Savannah River is the second largest metro area in Georgia and the host of The 
Masters Tournament. 
ANSWER:  
Augusta 
015-11-31-17107 
8.  
One leader of these people wrote a tract titled “A Defense of Liberty Against Tyrants” to express 
his anger at King Charles. That man was named Phillippe of Mornay. This group lost most of its 
political rights in the Peace of Alès, and some of these people plotted to kidnap a young monarch in 
the Conspiracy of Amboise. The story of how several of these people were killed provides the plot for 
a namesake 1836 opera by (*) 
 Giacomo Meyerbeer. Leaders of these people, including Admiral Coligny, 
were murdered by men like Henry of Guise on the orders of Catherine de Medici in a 1572 massacre. 
Tolerance provided to this group was revoked in the Edict of Fontainebleau, which overturned the Edict of 
Nantes. For 10 points, name this group of French Protestants. 
ANSWER: The  
Huguenots 
 [accept  
Protestant Reformed Church of France 
 or  
French Protestants 
before the second to last word in the tossup] 
BONUS: Many French Protestants were inspired by the teachings of what theologian and author of  
Institutes of the Christian Religion 
? 
ANSWER: John  
Calvin 
094-11-31-17108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 17 
Third Quarter 
FLORIDA 
Name some things about the early history of Florida. 
A. The oldest continuously occupied European city in America, founded by Pedro Menendez de Aviles. 
ANSWER:  
St. Augustine 
B. The legendary spring that early Spanish explorers tried to find. 
ANSWER:  
Fountain of Youth 
C. The explorer who named Florida and rivaled Diego Colon for leadership of Puerto Rico. 
ANSWER: Ponce de  
Leon 
D. The cavalry commander at the Battle of Cajamarca, whose expedition landed in Florida before reaching 
the Mississippi River. 
ANSWER: Hernando  
de Soto 
E. The modern-day city found near the site of Fort Caroline, a Huguenot settlement. 
ANSWER:  
Jacksonville 
F. The U.S.-Spain treaty that established the 31st parallel as the boundary of Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Adams-Onis 
 Treaty [or Treaty of  
San Lorenzo 
] 
G. The 1715-1717 War in South Carolina that led to a migration of displaced Indian tribes into Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Yamasee 
 War 
H. The archaeological site near Titusville that contained over a hundred skeletons from between 5000 and 
6000 BC. 
ANSWER:  
Windover 
 Pond 
040-11-31-1710-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
IT’S THE LAW 
Name the American law of the 19th century that… 
A. Banned slavery in Louisiana Purchase territory north of latitude 36°30?. 
ANSWER:  
Missouri Compromise 
B. Was an 1828 tariff that led to the “South Carolina Exposition and Protest.” 
ANSWER:  
Tariff of Abominations 
 [prompt on  
Tariff of 1828 
] 
C. Gave free land to anyone who would farm it for five years. 
ANSWER:  
Homestead 
 Act 
D. Was an 1857 constitution that would have permitted slavery in Kansas. 
ANSWER:  
Lecompton 
 Constitution 
E. Forbade the president from removing civil officers without the consent of the Senate. 
ANSWER:  
Tenure of Office 
 Act 
F. Gave states land grants to finance agricultural and technical colleges. 
ANSWER:  
Morrill 
 Land Grant Act 
G. Allowed individuals to file lawsuits against contractors accused of defrauding the government. 
ANSWER:  
False Claims 
 Act [or  
Lincoln 
 Law] 
H. Required registration for military service and resulted in the New York Draft Riots. 
ANSWER:  
Enrollment 
 Act 
030-11-31-1710-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THEY WORE THE BLACK COCKADE 
Name the politician from the Federalist Party who… 
A. Wrote  
An American Dictionary of the English Language 
. 
ANSWER: Noah  
Webster 
B. Introduced the Virginia Plan to the Constitutional Convention and was the first U.S. Attorney General. 
ANSWER: Edmund  
Randolph 
C. Proposed the Connecticut Compromise at the Constitutional Convention. 
ANSWER: Roger  
Sherman 
D. Was a Supreme Court justice whom Thomas Jefferson tried to impeach in 1805. 
ANSWER: Samuel  
Chase 
E. Authored the Judiciary Act of 1789. 
ANSWER: Oliver  
Ellsworth 
F. Ran unsuccessfully for President in 1804 and 1808. 
ANSWER: Charles Cotesworth  
Pinckney 
G. Was the last Federalist candidate in a presidential election. 
ANSWER: Rufus  
King 
H. Called for the Hartford Convention. 
ANSWER: Harrison Gray  
Otis 
030-11-31-1710-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 17 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
This man received the first patent for the use of a vacuum tube to amplify a signal, and his use of 
de Laval nozzles greatly assisted this man in his primary research. The German Hermann Oberth 
developed several of his theories independent of this man.  The New York Times  published a short 
1969 piece apologizing for a 1920 editorial (+)  ridiculing this man's theory that his inventions could 
function in a vacuum. This man demonstrated the use of a bazooka two days before the end of World 
War I. This man wrote the 1920 publication \"A Method of Reaching Extreme (*) 
 Altitudes.\" For 10 
points, identify the namesake of NASA's Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, the father of 
rocketry. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Goddard 
030-11-31-17101 
2.  
The protagonist of one story set in this state encounters Goody Cloyse in a forest. In a novel set in 
this state, a cat breaks a pickle dish that is a favorite of (+)  Zenobia; that story is set in the town of 
Starkfield. A play set in this state features the characters Tituba and Mercy Lewis, and another novel 
set in this state sees the death of Arthur (*) 
 Dimmesdale after that man reveals a version of the title 
emblem that has been seared onto his flesh. For 10 points, name this U.S. state that was the setting of Edith 
Wharton's  
Ethan Frome 
 as well as Nathaniel Hawthorne's depiction of Puritan life in  
The Scarlet Letter. 
ANSWER:  
Massachusetts 
081-11-31-17102 
3.  
One pope of this name had all German churches read an encyclical written in German rather than 
Latin; that encyclical by a pope of this name was  Mit brennender Sorge . Another pope of this name 
declared Rome an \"open city\" and was criticized as being the \"Pope of (+)  Silence\" for his lack of 
action against the Holocaust. The longest-reigning pope had this name; that pope wrote the  Syllabus 
of  (*) 
Errors 
 and was responsible for the dogma of the Immaculate Conception. For 10 points, give this 
papal name used by the twelfth, who reigned during World War II, and the ninth, who organized the First 
Vatican Council that decreed papal infallibility. 
ANSWER:  
Pius 
 [or  
Pius 
 XI; or  
Pius 
 XII; or  
Pius 
 IX] 
023-11-31-17103 
4.  
In the aftermath of this conflict, the National Commission for Rehabilitation coordinated \"The 
Three Rs\" of Reconstruction, Reconciliation, and Rehabilitation. One year before this war, an 
attempted coup was organized by the \"five (+)  majors.\" During this war, the poet Christopher 
Okigbo was killed. One side in this conflict had its capital at Enugu and was led by the former 
colonel (*) 
 Odumegwu Ojukwu. For 10 points, name this civil war that took place after Yakubu Gowon 
came to power, in which a primarily Igbo secessionist state was created in 1967 before it was reabsorbed 
into its larger African country in 1970. 
ANSWER:  
Nigerian 
 Civil War [or Nigeria- 
Biafra 
n War] 
023-11-31-17104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
This song was used in George Frideric Handel's  Occasional Oratorio , a work that dealt with the 
Jacobite Rebellion. This song's second verse states, \"Confound their politics/Frustrate their knavish 
tricks,\" referring to enemies of the title figure. Henry (+)  Purcell and John Bull are among the 
possible writers of this song, and Germany's national anthem prior to 1922, \"Hail to Thee in Victor's 
Garlands\" was set to this song's tune. During a Silver Jubilee, the (*) 
 Sex Pistols sang a song with this 
title with the words \"The Fascist Regime\" after the title is recited. This song's tune is used for the American 
song \"My Country 'Tis of Thee.\" For 10 points, name this national anthem of Great Britain. 
ANSWER:  
\"God Save the Queen\" 
 [or  
\"God Save the King\" 
] 
030-11-31-17105 
6.  
This case upheld the decision made eight years earlier in  Allgeyer v. Louisiana  and was upheld 
itself in  Adkins v. Children’s Hospital . The majority opinion of this case claimed that the law in 
question did not involve the “welfare of the public” and was written by Rufus (+)  Peckham. One 
dissent to this case was written by John Harlan, while the other dissent claimed that “the Fourteenth 
Amendment does not enact Mr. (*) 
 Herbert Spencer’s  
Social Statics 
” and was written by Oliver Wendell 
Holmes, Jr. For 10 points, name this 1905 Supreme Court case that upheld the “liberty of contract” against 
the New York Bakeshop Act limiting the hours bakers could work. 
ANSWER:  
Lochner  v. New York 
023-11-31-17106 
7.  
This legislation has gained some momentum from the passage of the “Madison” Amendment, 
which set the course for this legislation’s “three state strategy.” Opposition to this piece of legislation 
is organized in the (+)  Eagle Forum, whose creator and leader is Phyllis Schlafly. This legislation was 
first filed by Daniel R. Anthony, Jr. and Charles Curtis. Indiana was the last state to ratify it. 
Support for this legislation in 1972 came from the (*) 
 National Organization for Women. For 10 points, 
name this proposed amendment to the Constitution that was written by Alice Paul and fell just short of 
ratification after it was ratified by only thirty-five states. 
ANSWER:  
Equal Rights 
 Amendment 
023-11-31-17107 
8.  
This ruler attempted to aid the deposed king Hilderich by sending troops that forced the 
submission of Hilderich's cousin Gelimer. One of this ruler's commanders was victorious at the 
Battle of Busta Gallorum fighting against the Ostrogothic leader (+)  Totila. That commander, 
Narses, was helpful in putting down a revolt during this man's reign that targeted John the 
Cappadocian and Tribonian and proclaimed Hypatius emperor. That revolt was organized by the (*) 
Blue and Green factions and was called the Nika revolt. For 10 points, name this emperor who was served 
by the general Belisarius and who helped promulgate a new set of laws for the Byzantine Empire. 
ANSWER:  
Justinian 
 I [or Flavius  
Justinian 
us; or  
Petrus Sabbatius 
] 
023-11-31-17108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 17     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
