NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 TOSSUPS  
1. While discussing taking these objects, two men say they are \"not actually talking about it\" but  
\"speaking about it as an idea.\" These objects are eventually delivered to the offstage Jerry Graff  
by thieves. The theft of these objects, which is committed to get back at \"Murray and Mitch,\" is  
investigated by Detective Baylen and results in James Lingk canceling a contract. In a Chinese  
restaurant, John Williamson offers to sell these things. At the end of a play, it is revealed that  
Dave Moss and Shelley \"The Machine\" Levene conspired to break into the office and steal these  
objects, which will result in their firing and more business for Ricky Roma. For 10 points, name  
these important lists of contact information in a play by David Mamet.  
ANSWER: the Glengarry  leads   
2. One character from this country can never remember the name of the fourth greatest poet of all  
time and works for the husband of Pinky Madam before beating him to death. A novel set in this  
country opens with a retired judge playing chess with himself. In one story, a character from this  
country realizes that he has never seen his wife fully naked while looking at a mural of entwined  
nude bodies. The authors of  The White Tiger  and  Inheritance of Loss  are from this country, and a  
story set here ends with a tour guide saving Bobby from monkeys. Another character survives a  
train-wreck in this country and names his son “Gogol.” For 10 points, name this country whose  
emigrants appear in  The Namesake  by Jhumpa Lahiri.  
ANSWER:  India   
3. This man related how a king ordered that a sheep be sacrificed in place of an ox for the  
consecration of a bell. This man's mother, a prominent role model, once responded to his truancy  
by cutting a cloth she had been weaving. This man used the example of compassion, shame,  
reverence, and moral value felt toward a child falling down a well to illustrate the Four  
Beginnings. The last of the Four Books is a collection of conversations with this man, an extreme  
optimist with respect to human nature, who studied under Zi Si. This scholar of the fourth  
century BCE was often called the \"Second Sage.\" For 10 points, name this second greatest  
Confucian after Confucius himself.  
ANSWER:  Mencius  [or  Meng Zi ]  
4. While this leader was in power, members of the Lango and Acholi ethnicities were massacred  
in the Jinja and Mbarara Barracks. This man lost power following an attempt to annex a  
neighboring country's Kagera region. He took power while his predecessor was at a  
Commonwealth conference in Singapore. This leader, who was finally ousted by an invasion  
organized by Julius Nyerere, deposed Milton Obote in a coup and expelled all of the Asians in  
his country. This member of the Kakwa ethnic group caused Operation Thunderbolt to occur  
after he allowed a hijacked Air France flight to land at Entebbe airport. For 10 points, name this  
brutal dictator of Uganda during the 1970s.  
ANSWER: Idi  Amin 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 TOSSUPS  
5. The Dawson integral is used in this function's imaginary counterpart. The nth Hermite  
polynomial is proportional to the n+1 derivative of this function. The Q-function is equivalent to  
one-half minus one-half this function, evaluated at x over the square root of 2. This function  
appears in the solution to partial differential equations like Fick’s Second Law. This function of  
x arises from the integral of the exponential of negative x squared, an integral which has no  
elementary analytical solution. It equals zero at zero, one at infinity, and in general, equals twice  
the cumulative normal distribution function, shifted down one-half. For 10 points, name this  
sigmoidal function which shares its name with \"type I\" and \"type II\" methods of making  
mistakes in statistical testing.  
ANSWER:  error  function [or  erf ]  
6. Angels participate in this war in Natalia Goncharova's lithograph series  The Mystical Images  
of War.  Soldiers from this war ride a merry-go-round in a painting by Mark Gertler. The  
Vorticist movement broke up partly as a result of this war. By putting a banner with the word  
\"censored\" over a piece, Christopher Nevinson publicized his sardonic painting of this war titled  
Paths of Glory.  The etching series  Der Krieg  depicts Otto Dix's experiences fighting in this war.  
A line of wounded soldiers walk toward a dressing station in a painting of this war by John  
Singer Sargent. Despair over this war prompted the foundation of Dadaism. For 10 points, name  
this war that is the subject of Sargent's  Gassed  and Dix's  The Trench.  
ANSWER:   World War I  [or  First World War ; or  Great War ; prompt on  World War ]  
7. It's not molecular weight, but for a colloid solution, the distribution of this property is  
commonly assayed using dynamic light scattering. It’s not the activity coefficient, but in the  
Debye-Huckel equation, the variable “a” encodes this quantity, and this parameter notably does  
not appear in the Davies equation. A method of chromatography that is used to separate  
molecules by this property commonly uses a Sephacryl resin and is either referred to as gel- 
permeation chromatography or named for the exclusion of this property. For an ideal gas, this  
quantity is usually assumed to be significantly smaller than the distance between the molecules  
or the space occupied by the container. For 10 points, name this quantity which is accounted for  
by the “b” term of the van Der Waals equation, which is how much space a molecule takes up.  
ANSWER: molecular  size  [or molecular  radius ; or molecular  diameter ; or molecular  volume ;  
accept any answer which talks about how big a molecule is or how much space it takes up until it  
is read; or  particle  in place of molecular]  
8. Serkan Ozkaya used gold-painted foam to reproduce this sculpture for the Istanbul Biennial,  
but it soon collapsed. The creator of this sculpture responded to a request for an alteration by  
climbing a ladder and then pretending to chisel as he threw dust around. The eyes of this  
sculpture initially faced towards Rome, until it was moved to the Galleria dell'Accademia and  
replaced with a replica at its original site in a public square outside the Palazzo della Signoria.  
Contrary to Biblical tradition, its subject is uncircumcised, and he carries a slingshot over his left  
shoulder. For 10 points, name this seventeen-foot-tall sculpture created from a single block of  
leftover marble by Michelangelo, and which depicts the slayer of Goliath.  
ANSWER:  David 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 TOSSUPS  
9. A baculoviral family of proteins that inhibits this process contains BIR domains. During this  
process, scramblases move phosphatidylserine to the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane. One  
method of activating this process relies on signal transduction through a FADD domain. In  
follicular lymphoma, an 8 to 14 translocation upregulates a protein that inhibits this process,  
called Bcl-2. This process can be triggered by the binding of the Fas ligand or by release of  
cytochrome C from the mitochondria. This process is carried out by cysteine proteases called  
caspases, and it results in blebbing of the plasma membrane and laddering of DNA. For 10  
points, name this process of neat, ordered cell death.  
ANSWER:  apoptosis   
10. This city is home to the fish-feeding exhibit at Aquascene as well as the historic Deckchair  
Cinema. This city's namesake 1918 rebellion was led by Harold Nelson, who burnt an effigy of  
John Gilruth. In 1974, Cyclone Tracy completely destroyed this city. This home to many  
saltwater crocodiles is the largest city in the \"Top End.\" In February 1942, this city on the Timor  
Sea was destroyed by a Japanese bombing raid. It was named by John Clements Wickham in  
1839 when the  HMS Beagle  sailed into this city's harbor. For 10 points, name this capital of  
Australia's Northern Territory, named for an English scientist who formulated natural selection.  
ANSWER:  Darwin , Northern Territory  
11. Scattering of this type is described by the Mie scattering approach. In plasmas, the Coulomb  
collisions are this type of interaction. The Compton shift in a photon's wavelength occurs  
because, unlike low-energy Thomson scattering, Compton scattering is not this type of  
interaction. Mass is always conserved in particles undergoing this type of interaction. The ideal  
gas law assumes gas particles undergo only this type of interaction, which van der Waals  
equation modifies by allowing for particle attraction or repulsion. In this interaction, the total  
kinetic energy remains unchanged. For 10 points, name this interaction between two bodies  
exemplified by two balls bouncing off each other.  
ANSWER: binary  elastic  collision [or  elastic  scattering]  
12. The Treaty of Tordesillas was amended by this pope to make Portugal’s claim of Brazil  
official. Alexander Jagellion, the king of Poland, fought the Teutonic Knights with the financial  
backing of this pope. This pope allowed a marriage on the grounds of non-consummation  
between Catherine of Aragon and Henry VIII. This pope allied with Venice after an alliance he  
created to fight against Venice broke up, the League of Cambrai. Although it does not contain his  
remains, this pope’s tomb is adorned by a horned statue of Moses, which was allegedly  
commanded to speak by its sculptor. For 10 points, name this \"Warrior Pope\" who  
commissioned Michelangelo’s painting of the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.  
ANSWER: Pope  Julius II  [or Giuliano della  Rovere ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 TOSSUPS  
13. Female members of this family married Chief Justice Roger Taney and Senator George  
Pendleton. A member of this family prosecuted Benjamin Lundy for saying D.C. lacked “mercy”  
for black people, and also prosecuted Richard Lawrence for trying to kill Andrew Jackson.  
Another member of this family was killed by Daniel Sickles, who successfully first used the  
temporary insanity defense in his trial. The most famous member of this family wrote a text that  
matched the rhythm of the song “To Anacreon in Heaven.” That member of this family was  
negotiating prisoner release when he was detained on a British ship and forced to watch the  
shelling of Fort McHenry. For 10 points, name this family, whose members include the author of  
“The Star-Spangled Banner,” Francis Scott.  
ANSWER:  Key   
14. An institution in this city was directed by the author of a book which demanded that  
unemployment be reduced to three percent, titled  Full Employment in a Free Society.  10 basis  
points is the average amount of the spread between a metric named for this city and the overnight  
indexed swap. \"Members\" and \"Names\" congregate at an establishment in this city which has  
famously insured Whitney Houston's vocal chords; that insurance market is called Lloyd's. The  
Webbs, George Bernard Shaw, and other members of the Fabian Society established this city's  
School of Economics. In 2012, evidence broke out of massive collusion over an interest rate  
named for this city. For 10 points, name this city whose Interbank Offered Rate is abbreviated  
LIBOR.  
ANSWER:  London   
15. A king who was transformed into one of these animals with his seven sons is defeated with  
the help of Mabon.One of these animals has between his ears some scissors, a comb, and a razor  
that are needed to shave the giant Ysbadadden. In Hindu myth, one of these animals dives to the  
bottom of the ocean to rescue Bhudevi, an earth goddess, from the demon Hiranyaksha. Half of  
the Welsh tale  Culhwch and Olwen  concerns one of these animals called Twrch Trwyth. Vishnu  
takes the form of one of these animals as Varaha. When Artemis sends one of these animals to  
punish King Oeneus for neglecting her in sacrifices, Peleus and other heroes show up to kill it.  
For 10 points, name the type of animal slain by Meleager during a hunt in Calydon.  
ANSWER: a  boar   
16. In this novel, three coin tosses convince the protagonist to go visit his love interest, but he  
accidentally breaks a parasol handle when he finds her art dealer husband home. At a party in  
this novel, \"The Sphinx\" coughs up blood, and guests break pieces of china to honor a man who  
has moved into the porcelain business. Rosanette and Madame Dambreuse both have unhappy  
affairs with the protagonist of this novel. The protagonist of this novel sees Louis Philippe's  
throne tossed out the window during the 1848 revolution. In this novel, Charles Deslauriers  
advises a young man on how to get close to Madame Arnoux. For 10 points, name this novel by  
Gustave Flaubert about Frederic Moreau's personal growth.  
ANSWER:  Sentimental Education  [or  L' Education Sentimentale ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 TOSSUPS  
17. Alphonse Hasselmann may have finished a piece for this solo instrument dedicated to him, a  
D flat major impromptu by Gabriel Faure. The ergonomics of playing this instrument are  
addressed in the Salzedo method. Two of them lead the waltz in the movement \"Un bal\" from  
Symphonie fantastique.  This is the nickname of Beethoven's E-flat major tenth string quartet.  
Mozart's only piece for this instrument is a double concerto pairing it with the flute. A violin solo  
accompanied by this instrument represents Scheherazade's theme in the piece by Rimsky- 
Korsakov. A glissando played by this instrument contributes to the dreaminess of Debussy's  
Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun.  For 10 points, name these tall instruments with forty-seven  
strings.  
ANSWER:  harp   
18. A member of this family briefly owned the Manchester City football club, whose fans  
nicknamed him \"Frank.\" Prior to entering politics, a business tycoon from this family founded  
Advanced Info Service, his country's most successful phone operator. In 2014, the Constitutional  
Court forced a member of this family to step down as prime minister. In 2006, an earlier prime  
minister with this surname dissolved parliament, won a widely-boycotted election, and was  
toppled by a military junta. That man from this family restricted press freedom after suffering an  
excoriation at the hands of Ajahn Bua, a Buddhist monk. For 10 points, give this common  
surname of embattled brother and sister Yingluck and Thaksin, each of whom led Thailand.  
ANSWER:  Shinawatra   
19. The novel  Eldorado  begins with its protagonist reluctantly joining the plot to free this person.  
This person was placed under the jurisdiction of the cobbler Antoine Simon. This person's literal  
heart was stolen from a jar by one of the students of physician Philippe-Jean Pelletan, and  
subject to DNA testing comparing him to samples of the annoying German watchmaker Karl  
Naundorff. Despite the certainty that he died of scrofula in imprisonment, many people believed  
that there was a corpse buried in his place and that this \"Lost Dauphin\" was still out there  
somewhere. For 10 points, name this kid whose memory was honored by the skipping of a  
number by the next Bourbon French monarch.  
ANSWER:  Louis XVII  [or  Louis-Charles , Duke of Normandy; or  Louis-Charles , Dauphin of  
France; or  Louis-Charles , Prince Royal of France; or the  Lost Dauphin ; or the  Lost French  
King  or answers along those lines]  
20. In this novel, a woman discovers her husband's former lover by opening a coffin with a  
screwdriver and finding hair the same color as the one in his watch. This novel's female lead  
takes Liddy's advice and impulsively stamps a valentine reading, \"Roses are red, violets are blue\"  
with the phrase \"Marry me.\" That woman in this novel, the mistress of Weatherbury Farm, hires  
a shepherd who gave up farming after his dog chased his two hundred sheep off the edge of a  
chalk-pit. In this novel, after Boldwood goes to prison for shooting Sergeant Troy, Gabriel Oak  
is free to marry Bathsheba Everdene. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel with a  
pastoral setting.  
ANSWER:  Far from the Madding Crowd 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 TOSSUPS  
21. In this novel, an old woman bangs her head against the ground in front of a crucifix. This  
novel ends with the protagonist fantasizing about shooting a naked king while riding through a  
crowd in a coach. In this novel, a a pince-nez-wearing magistrate who reads Spinoza is hung by a  
belt in jail. The main character of this novel saves a drunken man whom he finds lying face  
down in the snow and almost has sex with that man’s daughter, Zeneida. Shortly after the  
protagonist chases some boys out of a brickyard, a body with thirty-seven wounds is discovered  
in a nearby cave. For 10 points, name this novel in which the Jewish handyman Yakov Bok is  
imprisoned for ritual murder, a work of Bernard Malamud.  
ANSWER:  The  Fixer   
22. This leader initiated a Literacy Corps that allowed those drafted into military service to  
perform their service tutoring in villages. He ordered the arrest of his intelligence chief  
Nematollah Nassiri, and his wife Farah Diba accumulated the most valuable collection of  
modern art outside of the United States. This man assumed his highest post after Soviet Union  
and Great Britain replaced his father during World War II, and his secret police force was known  
as the Savak. This man reversed Mohammad Mosaddeq's nationalization of British petroleum  
interests and initiated the westernizing White Revolution. For 10 points, name this leader who  
was overthrown in the Islamic Revolution and replaced with the Ayatollah Khoemeni as the  
leader of Iran.  
ANSWER: Mohammad  Reza  Shah  Pahlavi  [accept either underlined; prompt on “Shah of Iran”]  
23. The best known algorithm for minimizing these things uses partition refinement and is  
named for John Hopcroft. Two types of these things, which are differentiated on the basis of  
whether an output is a function of the input, are named for Mealy and Moore. Lexical analyzer  
generators work by converting a regular expression into one of these things. Using the powerset  
construction, one can convert them from a nondeterministic form to a deterministic form. Simple  
examples of these things can have their structure defined by transition diagrams or transition  
tables. The set of strings that allow these things to progress from a starting state to the accepting  
state is the language they accept. For 10 points, name these computational models without an  
infinite number of states.  
ANSWER:  finite state machine s [or  finite  state  automata ; or  FSM ; or  FSA ; or deterministic  
finite automata ; or  DFA ; or nondeterministic  finite automata ; or  NFA ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 BONUSES  
1. Name some important popes, for 10 points each.  
[10] This first Pope was one of the Twelve Apostles. He also names a Basilica in the Vatican.  
ANSWER: Saint  Peter  [or  Simon  Peter; or  Simeon ]  
[10] This longest-reigning elected Pope, who served during the nineteenth century, instituted  
Papal infallibility during the First Vatican Council.  
ANSWER:  Pius IX  [or Giovanni Maria  Mastai-Ferretti ; prompt on  Pius ]  
[10] This Pope issued the bull Unam Sanctam in 1302, which was one of the most extreme  
declarations of the supremacy of the Pope. He was also placed in the eighth circle of Hell by  
Dante.  
ANSWER:  Boniface VIII  [or Benedict  Caetani ; prompt on  Boniface ]  
2. The Frank-Caro process reacted this element's diatomic gas with calcium carbide. For 10  
points each,  
[10] Identify this element frequently added through a Schlenk line for inert environments.  
ANSWER:  nitrogen  gas [or  2]  N 
[10] The Frank-Caro process was an early method for nitrogen fixation, but was later replaced by  
this method, which directly added nitrogen gas to hydrogen gas in the presence of an iron  
catalyst.  
ANSWER:  Haber -Bosch process  
[10] Originally, Haber used this element as a catalyst, but eventually substituted a much cheaper  
iron catalyst. Its tetroxide is an extremely strong oxidizing agent.  
ANSWER:  osmium   
3. A multilayered example of this style is Jean-Etienne Liotard's  Still Life: Tea Set.  For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this fad in European art that involved designing or painting porcelain in an attempt to  
imitate the art of a certain country.  
ANSWER:  chinoiserie   
[10] Chinoiserie was especially popular in French art during this early eighteenth-century  
movement exemplified by the ornate and fanciful style used by Jean-Honore Fragonard.  
ANSWER:  Rococo   
[10] This painter dabbled in the style in his  The Chinese Garden,  but is better known for the  
series of portraits he painted of his patroness Madame de Pompadour.  
ANSWER: Francois  Boucher   
4. One of her novels climaxes with a masquerade at which the hunchbacked dwarf Herr Glocken  
wears a tie painted with the words “Girls, follow me!” For ten points each:  
[10] Name this author of an allegory of fascism,  Ship of Fools,  and of several stories about  
Miranda such as  Pale Horse, Pale Rider.   
ANSWER: Katherine Anne  Porter   
[10] This story by Porter ends “she stretched herself with a deep breath and blew out the light”  
and follows the dying thoughts of the title old woman.  
ANSWER: “The  Jilting of Granny Weatherall ”  
[10] Porter wrote about explaining this holiday to her niece in one essay. Clement Clarke Moore  
wrote a poem set on the eve of this holiday.  
ANSWER:  Christmas 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 BONUSES  
5. Credited with founding the Lausanne School of Economics, this man lends his name to an  
auction where the auctioneer yells out a price and then buyers and sellers agree on what  
quantities they want to buy or sell. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this nineteenth-century French economist, the author of  Elements of Pure  
Economics.   
ANSWER: Marie-Esprit-Leon  Walras   
[10] This Italian economist succeeded Leon Walras as Chair of Political Economy at the  
Lausanne School. His namesake efficiency describes a condition when no one can be made  
better off without someone being made worse off.  
ANSWER: Vilfredo  Pareto   
[10] This English economist developed his marginal utility independently of Carl Menger and  
Leon Walras, and preceded fellow English foundational figure Alfred Marshall. This author of  
1871’s  The Theory of Political Economy  incorrectly predicted coal prices would rise in  The Coal  
Question.  
ANSWER:  William Stanley  Jevons   
6. This book's protagonist plays ragtime at the behest of a \"rich white gentleman\" who, like his  
childhood friends \"Red\" and \"Shiny,\" is never called by name. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this narrative which also includes an argument about race between \"the old soldier\"  
and \"the Texan.\" Its narrator wonders if he \"traded [his] birthright for a mess of pottage\" by  
passing.  
ANSWER:   Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man   
[10] This author of  God's Trombones  and lyricist of \"Lift Every Voice and Sing,\" a song so  
popular it became known as the \"Negro national anthem,\" wrote  Autobiography of an Ex- 
Colored Man.   
ANSWER: James Weldon  Johnson   
[10] This later black novelist described Bigger Thomas's murder of a white woman in  Native  
Son.   
ANSWER: Richard  Wright   
7. Members of this group include possible murder victim Jesse Smith, who was inexplicably  
nicknamed \"Jess.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this disreputable bunch who hung out at The Little Green House on K Street, and  
counted Harry Daugherty and Albert Fall among its members.  
ANSWER:  Ohio Gang   
[10] Daugherty and Fall were implicated in this bribery scandal involving Navy petroleum  
reserves during the Harding presidency.  
ANSWER:  Teapot Dome  scandal  
[10] This alumnus of the Ohio Gang and campaign manager for Harding in the 1920 election  
became the first president of the predecessor to the MPAA, in which role he approved a  
moralistic code governing films.  
ANSWER: William Harrison  Hays , Sr. 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 BONUSES  
8. Answer some questions about the Birch and Swinnerton-Dyer conjecture, for 10 points each.  
[10] The conjecture concerns these objects over number fields. These objects have an equation of  
the form y squared equals x cubed plus a x plus b and were used by Andrew Wiles to prove  
Fermat's last theorem.  
ANSWER:  elliptic  curve [or  EC ]  
[10] The conjecture is defined in terms of a function named for Hasse and Weil designated by  
this letter. A function designated by this letter and named for Dirichlet is a sum over Dirichlet  
characters and the reciprocal of n to a particular exponent.  
ANSWER:    L 
[10] The BSD conjecture also makes a prediction about the first coefficient of this series for the  
L-function. This kind of series has coefficients containing to the nth derivative at the given point,  
and Colin MacLaurin names those that are centered at zero.  
ANSWER:  Taylor  series  
9. After being sold by his jealous brothers, this man became a high official in the pharaoh's court.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this most beloved son of Jacob, who was bestowed the coat of many colors.  
ANSWER:  Joseph   
[10] This mother of Joseph was the daughter of Laban. Jacob married this woman's sister Leah  
after working for seven years for Laban and won this woman's hand after working seven more  
years.  
ANSWER:  Rachel   
[10] Abraham bought the Cave of Machpelah, which is located in this West Bank city. Tradition  
holds that Jacob and Leah are buried in that cave in this city, and David was anointed the king of  
Israel here.  
ANSWER:  Hebron   
10. This structure consists of a phospholipid bilayer whose polarity is maintained by flippases  
and scramblases. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this cell component, the subject of the fluid mosaic model. Microdomains within this  
structure are called rafts.  
ANSWER: cell  membrane  [or plasma  membrane ]  
[10] Lipid rafts are partly held together by this molecule. This molecule is a steroid whose  
insertion into the membrane is used to regulate fluidity.  
ANSWER:  cholesterol   
[10] The outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria contains this endotoxin, which has both  
sugar and lipid components. It's outer core is bonded to the O antigen while it's inner core is  
bound to lipid A.  
ANSWER:  LPS  [or  lipopolysaccharide ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 BONUSES  
11. This movement began with a speech called “On the Correct Handling of the Contradictions  
Among the People.” For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 1956 movement in which citizens were briefly encouraged to express their true  
opinions about the Chinese government. It didn’t last long.  
ANSWER:  Hundred Flowers  Campaign  
[10] The aforementioned speech was given by this man, the Chairman of the Communist Party  
and center of a cult of personality during his rule of China.  
ANSWER:  Mao  Zedong  
[10] These late 1950’s campaigns followed Hundred Flowers and sought to purge the nebulously  
defined title group. After the Lushan Conference in 1959, these campaigns intensified.  
ANSWER:  Anti-Rightist  Movement  
12. In this play, a man begins to panic when people start buying white chocolate and white bread  
on credit at his store. For ten points each:  
[10] Identify this play in which Claire Zachanassian promises to give a billion marks to her  
hometown if her former lover, Alfred Ill, is murdered.  
ANSWER:  The  Visit   
[10] This Swiss playwright of  The Marriage of Mr. Mississippi  and  The Physicists  also wrote  
The Visit.   
ANSWER: Friedrich  Dürrenmatt   
[10] Dürrenmatt’s  The Physicists  is set in one of these places. Chief Bromden escapes one of  
these places after smothering Randle McMurphy in Ken Kesey’s  One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s  
Nest.   
ANSWER: insane  asylum s [or obvious equivalents]  
13. Francis Hutcheson's work in this field inspired a response from the pseudonymous  
\"Philaretus,\" while Benedetto Croce separated it from logic in his conception of mental activity.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this branch of philosophy which discusses the nature of art and beauty.  
ANSWER:  aesthetics   
[10] This philosopher stated that an aesthetic experience occurs when the subject achieves a will- 
less perception of the world and called art the \"pure subject of cognition.\" That work by this  
philosopher contains an appendix critical of Kant.  
ANSWER: Arthur  Schopenhaur   
[10] This other philosopher and member of the Frankfurt school critiqued Marxist aesthetics in  
his  The Aesthetic Dimension  but is better known for outlining how capitalist societies reify the  
repression of our instincts in  Eros and Civilization.   
ANSWER: Herbert  Marcuse 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 BONUSES  
14. Name some tributaries of the Mississippi River, for 10 points each.  
[10] This longest river in North America rises in the Rocky Mountains before flowing into St.  
Louis.  
ANSWER:  Missouri  River  
[10] This tributary of the Missouri River is a major river of Nebraska and helped form many  
trails during westward expansion. It is sometimes known as \"The Shallow River,\" as it is too  
shallow and muddy to be navigable.  
ANSWER:  Platte  River  
[10] This tributary joins the Mississippi just north of Vicksburg in the state of Mississippi. Lands  
along it were fraudulently sold in a major scandal of early American history.  
ANSWER:  Yazoo  River  
15. Name the following beings encountered by Samuel Taylor Coleridge's Ancient Mariner, for  
10 points each.  
[10] This creature is shot by the mariner with a crossbow, and hangs around his neck as his  
misfortunes and eerie encounters pile up.  
ANSWER: an  albatross   
[10] The mariner watches this womanly figure gloats after winning a dice game against the  
haggard male figure of Death.  
ANSWER: the Nightmare  Life-in-Death   
[10] The albatross falls off the mariner's neck after he blesses these two creatures \"unawares\" at  
the end of Part IV. These creatures \"moved in tracks of shining white\" and had \"rich attire\" of  
\"blue, glossy green, and velvet black.\"  
ANSWER:  water-snake s  
16. Answer these questions about the early history of Ireland, for 10 points each.  
[10] Members of this profession produced writings such as the  Book of Kells  and the  Voyage of  
Saint Brendan  after Saint Patrick's missionary work inspired them to secluded life.  
ANSWER:  monk s  
[10] The papal bull  Laudabiliter  allowed this Plantagenet king to invade Ireland. In England, he  
issued the Constitutions of Clarendon after his accession ended the Anarchy.  
ANSWER:  Henry II  Curtmantle  
[10] This man, the first High King of Ireland, supplanted the O'Neills and squared off against the  
Vikings at Clontarf early in the second millennium CE.  
ANSWER:  Brian Boru ma mac Cennétig [or  Brian Bóroimhe ]  
17. The Abraham-Lorentz force can be derived via the integration of this formula. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this non-relativistic formula for the power radiated by an accelerating point charge.  
ANSWER:  Larmor  formula  
[10] This constant is raised to the third power in denominator of the Larmor formula. Its division  
by phase velocity gives the refractive index.  
ANSWER:  speed of light  [or  ]  c 
[10] A relativistic form of the Larmor formula was derived by this physicist, who developed a  
retarded potential for a moving point charge with Emil Wiechert.  
ANSWER: Alfred-Marie  Liénard 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 BONUSES  
18. This symphony, the second and last of the composer's to use a minor key, begins the fourth  
movement with a Mannheim Rocket. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this symphony in G minor that opens only with the lower strings, with the melody of  
E flat D, D, E flat D, D from the first violins coming nearly a measure later.  
ANSWER: Symphony No.  40  in G minor [do not read full answerline if not answered correctly;  
accept Great G Minor Symphony ; or  K.550 ]  
[10]  This Austrian composer wrote forty-one symphonies, including ones nicknamed \"Haffner\"  
and \"Paris.\" Another Mannheim Rocket appears in his chamber piece  Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.   
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  Mozart   
[10] Mozart's  Prague, Linz,  and thirty-ninth symphonies are the only three of his forty-one to  
have this musical feature, though he also incorporated it into a symphony by Michael Haydn.  
Eleven of the twelve London symphonies by Joseph Haydn have this feature.  
ANSWER:  slow introduction  [or equivalent answers indicating a  slow beginning  or  slow start ]  
19. In some iterations, this figure is assisted by Brontes, Steropes, and Pyracmon, and he is  
responsible for the creation of the Aegis shield and Aphrodite’s girdle. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this blacksmith of the gods who once caught his wife Aphrodite in bed with Ares  
using a very fine gossamer net.  
ANSWER:  Hephaestus   
[10] Hephaestus’ workshop was supposedly located on this island, where his cult was centered.  
According to the Iliad, he was flung onto this island by Zeus.  
ANSWER:  Lemnos   
[10] In another tradition, Hephaestus was raised by Thetis and this oceanid, who was also the  
mother of the Graces. She shares her name with a titan queen who, with her husband Ophion,  
was overthrown by Cronus.  
ANSWER:  Eurynome   
20. One of these structures located in the city of Segovia contains niches displaying the Virgin of  
Fuencisca. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify these marvels of Roman engineering, such as the Anio Novus in Rome and the Pont  
du Gard in Nimes. Frontinus also called these water-transporting objects more useful than the  
\"idle Pyramids\" or anything the Greeks made.  
ANSWER: Roman  aqueduct s  
[10] The eleven aqueducts that went into Rome were eventually fed into this gigantic sewer  
underneath the city.  
ANSWER:  Cloaca Maxima  [or  Maxima Cloaca ]  
[10] These apartment buildings in ancient Rome, which had running water and sanitation,  
primarily housed the plebs. More elite families lived in domus instead of these buildings, whose  
Latin name literally means \"island.\"  
ANSWER:  insula e 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 13 BONUSES  
21. This person discovered a moth in the Mark II computer system, coining the term \"computer  
bug\". For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this US Navy Rear Admiral whose work on programming languages led to the  
creation of the common business oriented language, or COBOL. She was promoted to  
commodore by Ronald Reagan’s Secretary of the Navy, John S. Lehman.  
ANSWER: Grace  Hopper   
[10] The Mark II that Hopper worked on was invented by Howard Aiken at this university,  
where it was used to create mathematical tables for the Navy during World War II.  
ANSWER:  Harvard  University  
[10] The design of COBOL took some features from COMTRAN, which was designed by this  
company. The first CEO of this company, Thomas J. Watson, is the namesake of a  
supercomputer which defeated Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter on Jeopardy!.  
ANSWER:  IBM  [or  International Business Machines  Corporation] 
