Tournament 32 
Round 9 
Tossups 
1.  
This ruler sent Domitius Corbulo to fight Parthia. He reigned when the Battle of Watling Street 
ended Boudicca's Revolt and when Gaius Vindex revolted. The Pisonian Conspiracy against this 
ruler resulted in his execution of Lucan and Seneca. This ruler built the Domus Aurea on the 
Palatine Hill. The suicide of this son of (*) 
 Agrippina the Younger began Galba's reign in the Year of the 
Four Emperors. For 10 points, name this successor to Claudius who apocryphally fiddled during the Great 
Fire of Rome. 
ANSWER:  
Nero 
 Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus [or  
Nero 
 Claudius Drusus Germanicus; or  
Lucius 
Domitius Ahenobarbus 
] 
153-12-69-09101 
2.  
Faraday's law states this quantity is proportional to the negative time derivative of magnetic flux. 
Transformers change it by forming two coils with different numbers of loops. The rate of change 
over space of this quantity is the electric field, and it is thus constant inside conductors. When 
generated by a battery or magnetic field, this quantity is called (*) 
 \"electromotive force.\" Ohm's law 
states it is equal to current times resistance. For 10 points, name this difference in electric potential named 
for an Italian scientist. 
ANSWER:  
voltage 
 [or  
emf 
 before \"electromotive force\"; or  
electromotive force 
 until mentioned; or  
electric potential 
 difference before mentioned] 
121-12-69-09102 
3.  
This sociologist coined the term \"super-organic\" and popularized the \"organic analogy\" of society 
to a living organism. He argued that the restrictive legislation proposed by English liberals would 
lead to a \"new slavery\" in  Man Versus the State , and advocated (*) 
 laissez-faire economics in  
Social 
Statics 
. Influenced by the work of Lamarck and his reading of  
On the Origin of Species 
, he coined the term 
\"survival of the fittest.\" For 10 points, name this British proponent of Social Darwinism. 
ANSWER: Herbert  
Spencer 
080-12-69-09103 
4.  
The end of this family's power came at the hands of the builder of the Antonia fortress. Members 
of this family, whose patriarch was Mattathias, led a revolt against Antiochus IV. This family is the 
subject of two deuterocanonical, historical books of the Bible, usually placed at the very end of the 
Old Testament, and their name derives from the Aramaic for (*) 
 \"hammer.\" During the re-dedication 
of the Temple, this family found that one day's worth of oil lasted for eight. For 10 points, name these 
founders of the Hasmonean dynasty and creators of Hannukah. 
ANSWER:  
Maccabee 
s [or  
Maccabaeus 
] 
195-12-69-09104 
5.  
This composer described London through the viewpoint of a young couple in his  Cockaigne 
Overture . This composer liked to use the tempo marking of “nobilmente” in works such as the first 
movement of his first symphony. A choral work by this composer is based off a (*) 
 Cardinal Newman 
poem. This composer’s most famous work has movements based off of various people in his life, including 
Augustus Jaeger, who was called “Nimrod.” For 10 points, name the English composer of  
The Dream of 
Gerontius 
 and the  
Enigma Variations 
. 
ANSWER: Sir Edward  
Elgar 
140-12-69-09105 
Tournament 32     9     Page  1 of 10 
6.  
In one play by this author, the title character is greatly admired by Max Piccolomini but is 
murdered at a banquet by henchmen of the Holy Roman Emperor. The subject of a poem by this 
man is likened to a \"kiss for the entire world,\" and is also described as the \"daughter of Elysium.\" In 
another play, this author of (*) 
Wallenstein 
 wrote about the tyrant Gessler, who is defied by a 
crossbowman who shoots an apple off his son Walter's head. For 10 points, name this German author of  
William Tell 
 whose \"Ode to Joy\" was used by Beethoven. 
ANSWER: Friedrich  
Schiller 
 [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von  
Schiller 
] 
020-12-69-09106 
7.  
One set of current lyrics to this song were written by Robert Stanley Weir, loosely based on a 
version by Adolphe-Basile Routhier which proclaims \"As is thy arm ready to wield the sword, so also 
is it ready to carry the cross.\" The standard English version says “with glowing hearts we see thee 
rise” after praising “our home and (*) 
 native land” and goes on to pledge “we stand on guard for thee.” 
For 10 points, identify this song, a national anthem which praises “the true north strong and free” and is 
sung in a large country that borders the United States. 
ANSWER: “ 
O Canada 
” 
019-12-69-09107 
8.  
This man once used the pseudonym Alek James Hidell, and he was arrested for the murder of J.D. 
Tippit. Seven months before a more successful act, this man tried to assassinate Edwin Walker. One 
action by this man wounded John Connally in Dealey Plaza. The (*) 
 Warren Commission investigated 
the actions of this school book depository worker, who was killed by nightclub owner Jack Ruby. For 10 
points, identify this man who, in November 1963, assassinated John F. Kennedy. 
ANSWER: Lee Harvey  
Oswald 
189-12-69-09108 
9.  
In one novel, this religion's adherents include Teresa Flyte, whose husband Lord Marchmain 
converts to it in order to marry her. Charles Ryder feels the attraction of this religion at the title 
estate of Evelyn (*) 
 Waugh's novel  
Brideshead Revisited. 
 In a novel set in Tabasco, the mestizo and the 
lieutenant set a trap for an official of this religion who has an illegitimate daughter named Brigitta. For 10 
points, name this religion of the \"whiskey priest\" in Graham Greene's  
The Power and the Glory. 
ANSWER: Roman  
Catholic 
ism [or obvious equivalents; prompt on  
Christian 
ity] 
195-12-69-09109 
10.  
One complication of this disease is an autoimmune reaction called Blackwater fever, which causes 
kidney failure. It is treated with artemisinin. Duffy antigens and G6PD deficiency offer some 
resistance to it. People heterozygous for (*) 
 sickle-cell anemia are resistant to it. This disease is caused 
by a parasite carried by the anopheles mosquito, and it recently has grown resistant to quinine. For 10 
points, name this disease caused by the plasmodium parasite. 
ANSWER:  
Malaria 
 [accept  
Plasmodium 
 before mention] 
048-12-69-09110 
11.  
One commander in this conflict led cavalry at the indecisive Battle of Edgehill. In addition to 
Prince Rupert of the Rhine, another commander in this conflict led a unit that was created following 
the issuing of the Self-Denying Ordinance. Battles at Naseby and Marston Moor were won by the (*) 
New Model Army during this conflict, which saw the creation of the Rump Parliament. For 10 points, 
name this conflict in which the Roundheads defeated the Royalists, leading to the execution of Charles I. 
ANSWER:  
English Civil 
 War 
141-12-69-09111 
Tournament 32     9     Page  2 of 10 
12.  
The UBV system can be used to classify these objects. These objects undergo proper motion. 
Assemblages of them can fall into the categories of open or globular clusters. They are plotted on a 
Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. Variable (*) 
 ones, like Cepheids, can be used as standard candles. Helium 
was first detected in one of these objects. They are often formed in nebulas. For 10 points, identify these 
celestial objects that emit light and include the Sun. 
ANSWER:  
star 
s 
066-12-69-09112 
13.  
In  Friends,  Joey goes by this pseudonym when working at Monica's restaurant. A Cornelia Funke 
novel about the search for the Rim of Heaven is titled after a \"rider\" of one of these creatures. 
Another creature of this type is hatched in the Spine after (*) 
 Durza the Shade attempts to take its egg. 
In one work, one of these named Smaug guards the Arkenstone before it is given to the dwarves by Bilbo 
Baggins. For 10 points, name this fire-breathing monster. 
ANSWER:  
dragon 
s 
192-12-69-09113 
14.  
This son of Iapetus (YAP-eh-tus) swapped his mortality with Chiron and joined with his brother 
to give abilities to all animals. That brother was punished for this being’s trickery regarding 
sacrifices by being wed to Pandora. This Titan, whose name means “forethought,” suffered thirty 
thousand years of an (*) 
 eagle eating his regenerating liver as punishment for bringing a gift to humanity. 
For 10 points, name this Greek mythological character who stole fire from Mount Olympus. 
ANSWER:  
Prometheus 
019-12-69-09114 
15.  
In one film in this genre, the line, “Made it, Ma! Top of the world!” is delivered by Cody Jarrett, 
played by James Cagney, whose performances helped define this genre in Classic Hollywood. Other 
films in this genre include one in which Henry Hill berates his wife Karen for flushing a stockpile of 
(*) 
 cocaine down the toilet. In another film in this genre, Alejandro Sosa orders an assault on the mansion 
of Tony Montana, who screams, “Say hello to my little friend!” For 10 points, name this genre exemplified 
by  
White Heat, GoodFellas, 
   and  
Scarface. 
ANSWER:  
gangster 
 films [prompt on  
crime 
 films; prompt on  
film noir 
 until “Hill” is read] 
014-12-69-09115 
16.  
In this book, Monna agrees to marry Federigo after being moved by Federigo’s sacrifice of a 
prized falcon to make dinner. Elsewhere in this book, Gualtieri pretends to have his children killed 
and his wife sent away, only to reveal that it all was a test of Griselda’s patience. It also describes 
Lorenzo’s head, which is found in a pot of basil in a (*) 
 tale told by Filomena. In its frame story, seven 
men and three women rotate being “king for a day” while fleeing a Florentine plague. For 10 points, 
identify this collection of stories by Boccaccio, so named because it takes place over ten days. 
ANSWER:  
The  Decameron 
 [or  
Il  Decameron 
] 
019-12-69-09116 
17.  
One artist from this movement showed a putto clutching the silver hair of a reclining nude 
goddess in  The Toilet of Venus . In another painting from this movement, a young man in the bushes 
peeps up the pink dress of a woman who kicks off her shoe while being pushed by her husband. 
Francois Boucher practiced this movement, which takes its name from (*) 
 ornate shells and pebbles.  
The Swing 
 and  
The Embarkation for Cythera 
 are paintings from, for 10 points, what playful French art 
movement practiced by Fragonard and Watteau? 
ANSWER:  
rococo 
189-12-69-09117 
Tournament 32     9     Page  3 of 10 
18.  
George Henry Gould, Samuel Bowles, and Charles Wadsworth are among the men suspected of 
being this writer’s addressee in the “Master” letters. One of her works notes never meeting the 
central character “without a tighter breathing,” and she described riding in a (*) 
 carriage that “held 
but just ourselves and immortality.” For 10 points, name this reclusive American poet of poems whose 
opening lines include “A narrow fellow in the grass\" and “Because I could not stop for Death.” 
ANSWER: Emily  
Dickinson 
030-12-69-09118 
19.  
Ammonia turns blue when it dissolves elements of this group, which form ions that act as hard 
acids. Atomic clocks are usually made with elements of this group. When mixed with water, these 
elements may produce their hydroxides, all of which are soluble strong bases. They have low first (*) 
ionization energies, and the element with the lowest electronegativity, francium, is a member of this group. 
For 10 points, name this group which includes potassium and sodium and occupies the first column on the 
periodic table. 
ANSWER:  
alkali 
 metals [or Group  ; do not accept or prompt on  
1 alkaline earth 
 metals] 
190-12-69-09119 
20.  
One leader of this empire was murdered following a conspiracy led by Imad-ul-Mulk; that leader 
was Alamgir II. Another leader of this empire was tutored by Bairam Khan and promoted the 
syncretic religion called Din-i-Ilahi. A tax on non-Muslims known as the  jizya  was reinstated by a 
ruler of this empire named Aurangzeb. Another ruler of this empire, (*) 
 Shah Jahan, ordered the 
construction of the Taj Mahal. For 10 points, identify this primarily Indian Muslim empire. 
ANSWER:  
Mughal 
 Empire 
189-12-69-09120 
21.  
In an attempt to forestall this event, news of its planning was leaked in the newspaper  New Life . 
This coup attracted supporters with the slogan \"peace, land, and bread\" and was carried out by the 
Military Revolutionary Committee, which took the (*) 
 Winter Palace and deposed Alexander Kerensky 
without difficulty. For 10 points, name this power grab by Bolsheviks from the Provisional Government 
eight months after overthrowing the tsar in the February Revolution. 
ANSWER:  
October Revolution 
019-12-69-09121 
22.  
Clues about the conditions of the early Solar System can be gleaned from calcium-aluminum-rich 
inclusions in these objects. Chondrites constitute the majority of these objects found on Earth. Amino 
acids were found on the Murchison example of these objects. One of these found in (*) 
 Antarctica was 
believed to have microscopic fossils of Martian bacteria. For 10 points, name these objects that survive the 
fall to Earth from outer space and can be the remnants of shooting stars. 
ANSWER:  
meteorite 
s 
066-12-69-09122 
23.  
In one section of this work, a piece of grain blessed by the Virgin Mary allows a Christian child to 
indict his Jewish murderers. Another section of this work tells of a fox that is tricked into letting go 
of the captured rooster Chanticleer. This work begins with a General (*) 
 Prologue whose first line is 
\"Whan that Aprill in his shoures soote\" and which introduces characters like the Prioress, the Nun's Priest, 
and the Wife of Bath. For 10 points, name this Middle English collection of stories told by pilgrims, written 
by Geoffrey Chaucer. 
ANSWER:  
The  Canterbury Tales 
 [or \"The  
Prioress's Tale 
\" until \"fox\" is read] 
080-12-69-09123 
Tournament 32     9     Page  4 of 10 
Tournament 32 
Round 9 
Bonuses 
1. This meeting nearly fell apart after Russia and Prussia sided against the other Great Powers during the 
Polish-Saxon Crisis. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1814 to 1815 meeting in an Austrian city in the wake of the Napoleonic Wars. It created a 
balance of power in Europe that prevented large-scale wars for over 30 years. 
ANSWER:  
Congress of Vienna 
[10] The chair of the Congress was this Austrian foreign minister, whose conservative ideas dominated the 
Concert of Europe. 
ANSWER: Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar von  
Metternich 
[10] The British diplomat at the Congress of Vienna was this Irishman, whose defense of Lord Liverpool's 
repressive policies made him unpopular at home. 
ANSWER: Viscount  
Castlereagh 
 [or Robert  
Stewart 
] 
080-12-69-09201  
2. Name the following hosts of science shows, for 10 points each. 
[10] This British naturalist narrates tons of wildlife documentaries, like  
Nature's Greatest Events 
 and  
Planet Earth 
, but is best known for the  
Life 
 series. 
ANSWER: David  
Attenborough 
[10] \"Crikey\" was a favorite catchphrase of this former \"Crocodile Hunter,\" who passed away after being 
stung by a stingray. 
ANSWER: Steve  
Irwin 
 [or Stephen Robert  
Irwin 
] 
[10] The English version of  
March of the Penguins 
 was narrated by this actor, who popularizes 
astrophysics with his show  
Through the Wormhole 
. 
ANSWER: Morgan  
Freeman 
020-12-69-09202  
3. It is the set of all points for which the absolute difference between the distances to two foci is a given 
constant. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this curve which has two separate branches, an example of which is the graph of xy = 1. 
ANSWER:  
hyperbola 
[10] Along with parabolas and ellipses, hyperbolas are examples of this group of shapes which can be 
classified by their eccentricity. 
ANSWER:  
conic 
 sections [or  
conics 
] 
[10] Two intersecting lines or a single point can also be considered this kind of conic section. 
ANSWER:  
degenerate 
174-12-69-09203  
Tournament 32     9     Page  5 of 10 
4. Answer the following about Pablo Picasso, for 10 points each: 
[10] Picasso, along with Georges Braque, was a founder of this artistic movement, which stressed the 
deconstruction and reassembly of forms, often in block-like shapes. 
ANSWER:  
Cubism 
 [accept word forms] 
[10] This proto-Cubist painting by Picasso depicts five nude prostitutes, two of whose faces look like 
African masks, all with angular and abstracted body parts. 
ANSWER:  
Les  Demoiselles d'Avignon 
 [or  
The  Young Ladies of Avignon 
] 
[10] This painting from Picasso's Blue Period shows a ragged blind man sitting cross-legged in the street 
while playing the titular instrument. 
ANSWER:  
The  Old Guitarist 
196-12-69-09204  
5. In his Nataraja form, this god performs the dance that will destroy the world so that it can be renewed. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this destroyer god from the Hindu Trimurti. 
ANSWER:  
Shiva 
[10] With Parvati, Shiva is the father of this \"remover of obstacles.\" After Shiva decapitated this god in a 
misunderstanding, he received the head of an elephant. 
ANSWER:  
Ganesh 
a 
[10] Shiva resides on this sacred mountain in Tibet. It is also held sacred by Tibetan Buddhists. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Kailasa 
 [or Mount  
Kailash 
] 
080-12-69-09205  
6. William Collins's failure in this action on his first attempt prompts him to do it to Charlotte Lucas. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this action performed twice by FitzWilliam Darcy, his second performance coming after 
Catherine de Bourgh confronts Elizabeth Bennet. 
ANSWER:  
proposing 
 marriage [or obvious equivalents] 
[10] Elizabeth Bennet and FitzWilliam Darcy are characters in this Jane Austen novel. 
ANSWER:  
Pride and Prejudice 
[10] This other Austen novel concerns the title matchmaker, who ends up marrying George Knightley. 
ANSWER:  
Emma 
192-12-69-09206  
7. \"Negative\" examples of these phenomena include pollution from a factory, while \"positive\" ones can 
lead to the free rider problem. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these economic quantities, costs or benefits from a transaction that affect others not involved in 
the transaction. 
ANSWER:  
externalities 
[10] This economist's namesake theorem states that, as long as transaction costs are low, the problem of 
externalities can be solved by bargaining between the parties involved. He introduced that theorem in \"The 
Problem of Social Cost.\" 
ANSWER: Ronald  
Coase 
[10] The government can internalize the externalities from research and development by issuing these 
guarantees of intellectual property rights to inventors. 
ANSWER:  
patent 
s 
080-12-69-09207  
Tournament 32     9     Page  6 of 10 
8. This author’s characters include Guitar Bains, who tries to murder Milkman Dead in her novel  
Song of 
Solomon. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this African American author of  
Sula. 
 Pecola Breedlove poisons a dog to try to get whiter facial 
features in her first novel,  
The Bluest Eye. 
ANSWER: Toni  
Morrison 
 [or Chloe Anthony  
Wofford 
] 
[10] In Morrison’s novel  
Beloved, 
 Sethe and Paul D were two of these people before fleeing Kentucky. 
Frederick Douglass' memoir recounts his time as one. 
ANSWER: fugitive  
slave 
s 
[10] This daughter of Sethe is tormented by the title ghostlike young woman in  
Beloved. 
ANSWER:  
Denver 
104-12-69-09208  
9. Many of experiments employing this method use indicators such as phenolphthalein. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this process sometimes done in acid-base form, in which the unknown amount of a substance is 
determined by adding a reactant until the end point is reached. 
ANSWER:  
titration 
[10] Titrations often make use of this piece of lab equipment, which gives precise measurements of titrant 
added and releases titrant with the use of a stopcock. 
ANSWER:  
buret 
[10] This point in a titration is depicted in a titration curve by an inflection point. Polyprotic acids titrated 
by a strong base will have more than one of these points. 
ANSWER:  
equivalence 
 point [do NOT accept \"endpoint\"] 
023-12-69-09209  
10. In a biography of this man, Einhard lists signs of his death including a fireball across the sky seen while 
fighting the Danes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Frankish king who was crowned by Pope Leo III as Holy Roman Emperor in 800. 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
 [or  
Charles I 
; or  
Charles the Great 
; or  
Charles le Grand 
; or  
Carolus Magnus 
; or  
Karl der Grosse 
; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
[10] Charlemagne's father held this position before overthrowing Childeric to become the first Carolingian 
king of the Franks. This position was the real source of power during the last years of the Merovingian 
dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
mayor of the palace 
 [or  
majordomo 
; or  
major domus 
] 
[10] Charlemagne's father was this man. His donation of land seized from the Lombards to Stephen II 
became the Papal States. 
ANSWER:  
Pippin the Short 
 [or  
Pippin III 
; or  
Pepin the Short 
; or  
Pepin III 
; prompt on  
Pippin 
] 
121-12-69-09210  
11. The liquid form of these entities can exist in chiral and nematic phases and are used in TV displays. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Identify these entities which are composed of atoms in a repeating pattern, which make up a lattice. 
ANSWER:  
crystal 
s 
[10] One technique in crystallography involves firing a beam of this type of radiation at a crystal and 
studying the scattering angles. It was used by Rosalind Franklin to study DNA structure. 
ANSWER:  
x-ray 
s [or  
x-radiation 
; or  
Rontgen 
 radiation] 
[10] Crystals can also exhibit this phenomenon, which is sometimes known as \"double-refraction.\" It takes 
place due to the orientations of materials with different refractive indices. 
ANSWER:  
birefringence 
189-12-69-09211  
Tournament 32     9     Page  7 of 10 
12. The most popular car in this country was an antique made out of plastic called the Trabant. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this Eastern Bloc country created from the Soviet occupation zone after World War II. 
ANSWER:  
East Germany 
 [or  
Ostdeustchland 
; or  
German Democratic Republic 
; or  
GDR 
; or  
Deutsche 
Demokratische Republik 
; or  
DDR 
] 
[10] In 1948 and 1949, the West responded to a Soviet blockade in Germany with this effort to relieve 
West Germans. This effort was codenamed \"Operation Vittles.\" 
ANSWER:  
Berlin Airlift 
[10] East Germany was the subject of this policy of  
rapprochement 
 enacted by West German chancellor 
Willy Brandt. 
ANSWER:  
Ostpolitik 
080-12-69-09212  
13. Name these Washington, D.C. landmarks, for 10 points each. 
[10] Originally designed by Robert Mills, this tall obelisk now overlooks the Reflecting Pool on the 
National Mall. 
ANSWER: the  
Washington Monument 
[10] Maya Lin won a contest to implement her design for this monument. It consists of a sheer black wall 
inscribed with the names of dead American soldiers. 
ANSWER: the  
Vietnam Veterans Memorial 
 [do not accept the  
Vietnam War Memorial 
] 
[10] This art museum in Dupont Circle contains Renoir's  
Luncheon of the Boating Party 
. It is the oldest 
American museum of modern art. 
ANSWER: the  
Phillips Collection 
080-12-69-09213  
14. This man carried out a death sentence by drinking hemlock after convincing Crito that he had to obey 
the law. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Athenian philosopher who defends his method of uncovering truth through question and 
answer in an  
Apology 
 written by his student Plato. 
ANSWER:  
Socrates 
[10] In this Platonic dialogue, Socrates, Aristophanes, and others discuss the nature of love at a drunken 
party at Agathon’s house. 
ANSWER: the  
Symposium 
 [or  
Sympousion 
] 
[10] In the  
Apology 
, Socrates likens himself to this creature, which creates an irritation that stirs people to 
higher thoughts. 
ANSWER: a  
gadfly 
 of the State [or  
myops 
; prompt  
fly 
] 
104-12-69-09214  
15. Bettina von Arnim's one-sided love for this author is the focus of the second part of Kundera's novel  
Immortality. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German author who wrote a two-part dramatic adaptation of the medieval legend of Faust. 
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von  
Goethe 
[10] Goethe was considered a representative of the German literary movement of this type, which in 
England was represented by poets such as Wordsworth and Keats. 
ANSWER:  
Romantic 
ism [or obvious equivalents] 
[10] In Goethe's other major work,  
The Sorrows of Young Werther, 
 the title character kills himself over his 
unrequited love for this woman, the wife of Albert. 
ANSWER:  
Lotte 
 [or  
Charlotte 
] 
020-12-69-09215  
Tournament 32     9     Page  8 of 10 
16. For 10 points each, answer the following about doubly-landlocked countries. 
[10] This small European country is bordered only by Austria and Switzerland, which are both landlocked. 
Its capital of Vaduz houses the Cathedral of St. Florin and Vaduz Castle, which houses this country's 
prince. 
ANSWER: Principality of  
Liechtenstein 
 [or Fürstentum  
Liechtenstein 
] 
[10] This country is only considered doubly landlocked if the Caspian Sea counts as a lake, not a sea. 
Tamerlane used its city of Samarkand as his capital, but its modern capital is Tashkent. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Uzbekistan 
 [or  
Ozbekiston 
 Respublikasi] 
[10] This neighbor of Uzbekistan is covered almost entirely by the Tian Shan mountains, which is shares 
with bordering China. Victory Peak is this country's highest point, and it also contains Issyk Kul lake. 
ANSWER:  
Kyrgyzstan 
 [or  
 Kyrgyz Republic 
; or  
Kyrgyz Respublikasy 
] 
195-12-69-09216  
17. This equation can be expanded to include multiple alleles simply by adding additional frequency terms, 
and it assume no migration. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this equation which states that p squared plus two p q plus q squared equals 1, which is used to 
model an ideal population in genetics. Its named for two people. 
ANSWER:  
Hardy-Weinberg 
 equilibrium 
[10] Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium assumes this process isn’t taking place. This is the differential survival 
of genetically distinct organisms due to differences in fitness, and was posited by Darwin as the main 
mechanism of evolution. 
ANSWER: natural  
selection 
 [accept almost any word before “selection”] 
[10] The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium assumes that this quantity is infinity. A bottleneck results in a sharp 
decrease in this quantity, and when this quantity is small the population is subject to drift. 
ANSWER: population  
size 
 [accept equivalents] 
048-12-69-09217  
18. At the end of this novel, one family, who was helped by Quakers, moves to Liberia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which the title slave is sold by Mr. Shelby and beaten to death by Quimbo and 
Sambo, who work as Simon Legree’s overseers. 
ANSWER:  
Uncle Tom’s Cabin 
[10] This woman wrote  
Uncle Tom’s Cabin. 
ANSWER: Harriet Beecher  
Stowe 
[10] While on a steamboat, Uncle Tom saves this angelic daughter of Arthur St. Clare from drowning. 
Before dying, she gives each of St. Clare’s slaves a lock of her hair. 
ANSWER:  
Eva 
 St. Clare [or  
Eva 
ngeline St. Clare] 
149-12-69-09218  
19. This man wrote a 1500 page manifesto called \"2083: A European Declaration of Independence.\" For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this man who was sentenced in August of 2012 to 21 years in prison after he killed 77 people in 
July of 2011. 
ANSWER: Anders Behring  
Breivik 
[10] Breivik's actions took place in this country, including on its island of Utoya and its capital of Oslo. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Norway 
 [or Kongeriket  
Norge 
] 
[10] Breivik claimed in his manifesto that he was part of a new, violent conservative movement in Europe 
named after this Christian militant order from the Middle Ages. 
ANSWER:  
Knights Templar 
023-12-69-09219  
Tournament 32     9     Page  9 of 10 
20. This President served as Supreme Allied Commander in Europe during World War II. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this President who twice defeated Adlai Stevenson in elections for the office. He sent federal 
troops to Little Rock to forcibly desegregate the school there. 
ANSWER: Dwight David  
Eisenhower 
[10] As President, Eisenhower championed the building of this national network of roads. It is a common 
myth that one mile in every five of this system is straight so that airplanes can land on it. 
ANSWER:  
Interstate 
 Highway System [or Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of  
Interstate 
 and 
Defense Highways] 
[10] Abroad, Eisenhower approved the CIA coup against this man, the prime minister of Iran who had 
nationalized its oil industry. 
ANSWER: Mohammad  
Mossadegh 
195-12-69-09220  
21. Within these organizations, apprentices grew to become journeymen, and journeymen submitted 
masterpieces to become masters. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these medieval trading organizations. These organizations imposed a monopoly on 
manufacturing their respective crafts within their town. 
ANSWER: craft  
guilds 
[10] This Italian republic was dominated by its 21 guilds. In this city, the Black Guelphs, led by Corso 
Donati, expelled the White Guelphs. 
ANSWER:  
Florence 
 [or  
Firenze 
] 
[10] European entrepreneurs used this system to bypass the monopolies of town guilds. In this system, 
merchants gave raw materials to rural peasants and paid them to create finished products. 
ANSWER:  
putting-out 
 system [or  
domestic 
 system; or  
cottage industry 
] 
080-12-69-09221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
Tournament 32     9     Page  10 of 10 
