VHSL Regular Season 
Round 25 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This god gave Heracles a golden goblet in which he journeyed to Erythia. This god's daughters Phaethusa and Lampetie 
watched his sheep on the island of Thrinacia. While staying on that island, some of Odysseus's men ate cattle sacred to this god. 
Among this god's daughters are Pasiphae, the wife of Minos, and the witch Circe. This god swore on the River Styx to allow his 
son Phaeton to drive his chariot across the sky. For 10 points, name this Greek sun god. 
ANSWER:  
Helios 
003-09-2-10101 
2. This man served under General Braddock during the French and Indian War. This general was defeated in Pennsylvania at the 
Battle of Brandywine. This man's victories in New Jesey include the Battles of Princeton and Trenton, which he won after 
crossing the Delaware River during the winter. This general won his greatest victory at the Battle of Yorktown against General 
Cornwallis, and he won the elections of 1788 and 1792. For 10 points, name this first President of the United States. 
ANSWER:  George  
Washington 
021-09-2-10102 
3. This man's teacher George Wishart (WIH-shart) was burned at the stake for heresy. This man's book  
Faithful Admoninition 
 was 
written to English Protestants and called for the overthrow of ungodly rulers. This man also wrote the tract  
First Blast of the 
Trumpet Against the Monstruous Regiment of Women 
. This man's  
Book of Common Order 
 advocated Presbyterian form of church 
governance. For 10 points, name this leader of the Reformation in Scotland. 
ANSWER:  John  
Knox 
030-09-2-10103 
4. The Le gene in these organisms affects their response to gibberellins (GIBB-ur-ELL-ins) and thus their height. Commonly 
studied traits in them include axial or terminal buds, inflated or constricted pods, and purple or white flowers. These plants were 
first used as a model organism by a monk whose studies led to the development of the law of segregation and the law of 
independent assortment. For 10 points, name this plant that allowed Mendel to develop his namesake model of inheritance. 
ANSWER:   
pea 
 plants [or  
P isum sativum_ 
] 
032-09-2-10104 
5. This man died in a helicopter crash in 1977 after covering brushfires in Southern California. This man grew up in Pound, 
Virginia. After graduating from Milligan College, this man joined the Air Force in 1960. This man was trained in dropping atomic 
bombs, but received later training from the CIA in piloting top-secret, high-altitude planes used to photograph enemy installations. 
For 10 points, who was shot down over the Soviet Union in May 1960 while flying his U-2?  
ANSWER:  Francis Gary  
Powers 
045-09-2-10105 
6. This woman wrote a book in which Pearl learns that Jimmie Louie isn't her biological father,  
The Kitchen God's Wife 
. Another 
of her works follows a group of tourists who vanished while in Burma and is narrated by the dead tour guide Bibi Chen,  
Saving 
Fish From Drowning 
. Her most famous work tells of a daughter who tries to replace her dead mother in the titular group of four 
Chinese immigrant women. For 10 points, name this Chinese-American author of  
The Joy Luck Club 
. 
ANSWER:  Amy  
Tan 
032-09-2-10106 
7. Playfair's Postulate states that, given a point and a line, only one object with this property can be constructed. That postulate is 
logically equivalent to Euclid's fifth postulate, which is sometimes named after this property. Corresponding angles are equal if the 
transverse line generating them intersects two lines with this property. This property is exhibited by two lines that have the same 
slope but different intercepts. For 10 points, give this property that is exhibited by any two coplanar lines that do not intersect. 
ANSWER:  
parallel 
ity 
003-09-2-10107 
8. The influence of this continent on contemporary politics was discussed in a book about the \"myth\" of a certain \"past\" by 
Melville Herskovits. Edward Evan Evans-Pritchard wrote about this continent's Nuer and Azande groups. Among the 
anthropologists who have made important fossil finds on this continent are Raymond Dart and Louis Leakey, who worked at its 
Olduvai Gorge. For 10 points, identify this continent, the home to the \"Lucy\" fossil and to Jane Goodall's research on primate 
behavior. 
ANSWER:  
Africa 
019-09-2-10108 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 25     Page  1 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. After a visit to this nation, Mikhail Glinka wrote an orchestral piece about a summer night in this nation's capital. Evocacion 
opens one composer's suite of twelve works about this nation. Another composer from this nation wrote a ballet, the 
Three-Cornered Hat, as well as three nocturnes for piano and orchestra about nights in the garden of this nation. For 10 points, 
name this nation that is the subject of the Iberia suite, home to the composers Manuel de Falla and Isaac Albeniz. 
ANSWER:  
Spain 
036-09-2-10109 
10. One poem by this man states that the titular piece of music is \"only the monstrous anger of the guns.\" This author of \"Anthem 
for Doomed Youth\" wrote another poem, describing an \"ecstasy of fumbling\" that accompanies a gas attack. That poem by this 
author criticizes the \"age-old lie\" that roughly translates as \"it is sweet to die for your country.\" For 10 points, name this poet, who 
was killed in World War I after writing \"Dulce Et Decorum Est\" (DUL-chay ET DE-koh-rum EST). 
ANSWER:    Wilfred  
Owen 
038-09-2-10110 
11. Major Harry Rathbone was unable to stop this event. Dr. Samuel Mudd was executed for setting a cast on the broken leg of 
one figure who participated in this event. At the same time as this event was occurring, Lewis Powell was attempting to kill 
William H. Seward. A man who was later shot in a burning barn in Northern Virginia yelled \"sic semper tyrannis\" before 
perpetrating this act. For 10 points, name this event in Ford's Theater, where the sixteenth President of the United States was shot 
by John Wilkes Booth.  
ANSWER: the  
assassination 
 of Abraham  
Lincoln 
 [accept obvious equivalents] 
021-09-2-10111 
12. This character appeared in the episode \"Blind Ambition,\" which showed how a totem pole caused him to both lose his job as 
an auctioneer and gain his characteristic elongated speech. One frequent gag involving this character involves the front of his 
house collapsing, leading to his in-use bathtub falling to the ground. This character eventually eventually leaves Quahog to return 
to his hometown of Stoolbend, Virginia, where he quickly marries his high school sweetheart. For 10 points, name this former deli 
owner, the star of a recent spin-off of  
Family Guy 
. 
ANSWER:    
Cleveland 
 Brown 
002-09-2-10112 
13. A lamp atop a pedestal can be found near the center of this painting, in which three figures are ascending a staircase in the 
background. In this work, the inscription \"L.D.\" is marked on a bench, on which sits a follower of the title figure. Another robed 
follower in this painting is placing his hand on the title figure's knee as he prepares to down the deadly contents of a cup. For 10 
points, name this Jacques-Louis David painting in which the title philosopher is pointing his finger upward as he prepares to drink 
hemlock. 
ANSWER:   
The  Death of Socrates 
030-09-2-10113 
14. Parietal cells in this organ produce intrinsic factor to help absorb Vitamin B12. In response to distension of this organ, gastrin 
is released, and hydrochloric acid is a key ingredient in this organ's acidic juices. Infection by  
Helicobacter pylori 
(HEEL-ih-ko-BACK-tur py-LORE-eye) causes peptic ulcers in this organ, which produces chyme (KIME) that is sent into the 
small intestine. For 10 points, name this organ of the digestive system between the esophagus and small intestine. 
ANSWER:     
stomach 
032-09-2-10114 
15. This composer repeated the \"Promenade\" theme in a suite inspired by his friend Victor Hartmann. This composer wrote a tone 
poem about a Witches' Sabbath led by Chernobog on St. John's Eve, which was orchestrated by his friend Rimsky-Korsakov. 
Along with Rimsky-Korsakov, Cui, Balakirev, and Borodin, he was the fifth member of the Mighty Handful of Russian 
composers. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures of an Exhibition. 
ANSWER: Modest  
Mussorgsky 
004-09-2-10115 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 25     Page  2 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 25 
Directed Round 
1A. During a recent visit to New York, speculation abounded that President Obama desires what incumbent governor to withdraw 
from the 2010 gubernatorial race in favor of Attorney General Andrew Cuomo? 
ANSWER:    David  
Patterson 
1B. What French chemist created the modern classification system between chemical elements and compounds and disproved the 
phlogiston (flow-JISS-tun) theory? 
ANSWER:    Antoine Laurent  
Lavoisier 
2A. Name the style of drama training, pioneered by Konstantin Stanislavsky, that stresses immersion of actors into the roles of 
their characters. 
ANSWER:     
method 
 acting 
2B. This man's film  
Intolerance 
 examined the title concept in Babylon, Judea, France, and modern America. Name this director of 
the landmark silent film  
Birth of a Nation 
. 
ANSWER:    David Llewelyn  
Griffith 
3A. Tristan da Cunha, St. Helena, and Ascension are some of the islands that are actually exposed parts of what submarine 
mountain range? 
ANSWER:     
Mid-Atlantic 
 Ridge 
3B. Future Government Mule founder Warren Haynes was a longtime member of what Southern rock band, whose songs include 
\"Whipping Post\" and \"Rambling Man?\" 
ANSWER:    The  
Allman Brothers 
 Band 
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the sum of the interior angles of a decagon? 
ANSWER:     
1440 
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the next term in the following sequence: 1, 2, 3, 6, 12. 
ANSWER:      [each term is the sum of all the previous terms] 
24 
5A. What North Carolina city, located in Mecklenburg County, is home to Bank of America's headquarters and has been hit 
especially hard by the current recession? 
ANSWER:     
Charlotte 
5B. In 2009, what leader of Burma's National League for Democracy was arrested for violating the terms of her house arrest after 
allowing an American who swam to her house to stay with her? 
ANSWER:    Aung San  
Suu Kyi 
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. The two sides of a right triangle measure 9 and 40 respectively. What is the length of 
the third side, given that the missing side is the hypotenuse of the triangle? 
ANSWER:     
41 
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the mean of the following set of numbers: 17, 24, 33, 15, 26, 35.  
ANSWER:     
25 
7A. This compound typically consists of ten different hydrocarbons that contain ten to sixteen carbon atoms per molecule. Name 
this fuel, whose constituents include alkyl (AL-kill) benzenes, naphthalene (NAFF-thuh-leen), and n-dodecane 
(ENN-DOH-deh-cain). 
ANSWER:     
kerosene 
 [prompt on  
paraffin oil 
; prompt on  
coal oil 
] 
7B. What university, located in Nashville, became the center of the Fugitive literary circle that included writers such as Allen Tate 
and John Crowe Ransom? 
ANSWER:     
Vanderbilt 
 University 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 25     Page  3 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8A. What Native American language, located in the Athabascan Branch of the Nadene linguistic family, was the basis for a World 
War II military code? 
ANSWER:     
Navajo 
8B. Name the psychologist who wrote  
Toward a Psychology of Being 
 and developed a namesake \"hierarchy of needs.\" 
ANSWER:    Abraham  
Maslow 
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the remainder when 1700 is divided by 24? 
ANSWER:     
20 
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. How much money is 7 quarters, 6 dimes, 5 nickels, and 4 pennies? 
ANSWER:     
$2.64 
10A. Brick Tamblin and Brian Fontana are among the sidekicks of the title character of what 2004 Will Ferrell comedy, in which 
Veronica Corningstone faces male chauvinism? 
ANSWER:    
Anchorman : The Legend of Ron Burgundy 
10B. Members of this phylum contain nematocysts (neh-MAH-toe-sists) and come in polyp and medusa form. Name this phylum, 
whose members include jellyfish and sea anemones (an-EH-moh-neez). 
ANSWER:     
cnidaria 
 (the \"c\" is silent) 
030-09-2-10116 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 25     Page  4 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 25 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In this literary work, the dog Argos recognizes his master although he is disguised as a beggar. Another character in this work, 
who notices a scar while washing that beggar's feet, is the old nurse Eurycleia (YURR-ick-LAY-uh). The heroine of this work 
resists her suitors by weaving and unweaving a burial shroud for her father-in-law, Laertes (LAY-ur-teez). The hero of this work 
is held at Ogygia (oh-JI-jee-uh) by Calypso when the narration begins. For 10 points, what epic, featuring the characters 
Telemachus (tel-EM-uh-kuss) and Penelope is set after  
The Iliad 
 by Homer? 
ANSWER: The  
Odyssey 
034-09-2-10117 
2. Khuiten Peak is part of the Five Saints Peaks in this nation's section of the Altay Mountains, which form part of the 
northwestern boundary of this nation. Lake Khovsgol lies near this nation's Khangai Mountains and drains north into the Selenge 
River. The northern range of the wild Bactrian camel lies in this country, which lies north of Xinjiang and south of Tuva and 
which also contains the cold Gobi Desert. For 10 points, name this country of steppes with a capital at Ulan Bator that is 
landlocked between China and Russia. 
ANSWER:  
Mongolia 
036-09-2-10118 
3. One character in this work carries a weapon that was once a pillar in an undersea palace. Another character in this work is 
banished from the heaven for flirting with the moon. A character in this work is trapped under a mountain for five hundred years 
after defeating armies from heaven, while another uses the help of Guanyin to bring scriptures back to the Tang Dynasty. For 10 
points, name this novel that features Pigsy and Xuanzang (shwan-ZANG), a Chinese novel by Wu Cheng'en about the primate Sun 
Wukong. 
ANSWER:  
Journey to the West 
 [or  
Monkey 
; or  
Xi you ji 
] 
036-09-2-10119 
4. This operating system is based on Darwin, a flavor of BSD. This operating system includes the \"Terminal\" application, through 
which Unix commands may be entered into a command line. The visual interface of this operating system is called Aqua. Specific 
versions of this operating system include Tiger, Jaguar, and, most recently Snow Leopard. For 10 points, name this operating 
system found on Apple Computers.  
ANSWER:   Mac  
OSX 
 [or Macintosh  
Operating System Ten 
; accept letter-by-letter pronunciations of \"OSX\"; accept 
pronunciations of \"O-S-Ten\"; prompt on  
Mac OS 
] 
021-09-2-10120 
5. Edgar Aethling (AYTH-ling) surrendered to the winner of this battle. Halley's comet appeared during the year of this battle, a 
fact included on the Bayeux (bye-YOO) Tapestry depicting this battle. This battle was preceded by Harald Hardrada and Tostig's 
defeat at Stamford Bridge. The power struggle that culminated in this battle was started by the death of Edward the Confessor. The 
result of this battle was the defeat of the English and the death of their leader Harold II. For 10 points, name this 1066 victory for 
Norman invaders led by William the Conqueror. 
ANSWER:  Battle of  
Hastings 
015-09-2-10121 
6. This poet noted that \"the sky will cave in on\" \"the man whose soul is flat\" in a poem that begins \"All I could see from where I 
stood/ Was three long mountains and a wood,\" \"Renascence.\" In another of this person's poems, the speaker's \"candle burns at 
both ends\" and \"gives a lovely light,\" although it \"will not last the night.\" For 10 points, name this female American poet who 
included \"First Fig\" in her book  
A Few Figs From Thistles 
. 
ANSWER:  Edna St. Vincent  
Millay 
032-09-2-10122 
7. The log of the partition function times Boltzmann's constant times temperature yields one form of this quantity. The type of this 
calculated by subtracting the product of temperature and entropy from internal energy also gives that quantity and is named for 
Helmholtz. Enthalpy minus the product of temperature and entropy is equal to the Gibbs variety of this quantity. For 10 points, 
name this quantity, the amount of useful work that can be extracted from a system. 
ANSWER:   
free energy 
032-09-2-10123 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 25     Page  5 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This leader's military launched Operation Uranus and won the Battle of Kursk. This leader targeted Jews during the Doctors 
Plot, but died before he could finish it. He outlined the concept of \"Socialism within One Country.\" His foreign minister was 
Molotov and he ordered the assassination of Trotsky. At the Yalta and Potsdam conferences, this member of the Big Three was 
given control over the future Warsaw Pact. For 10 points, name this dictator of the Soviet Union during WW2, the successor of 
Lenin.  
ANSWER:   Joseph  
Stalin 
021-09-2-10124 
9. The final sentence of this story points out the attractiveness and marriageability of the protagonist's sister. That protagonist 
shuns milk and bread and hides under the sofa at one point during this story. An apple thrown by the protagonist's father lodges 
into his back, leading to an infection. Several boarders in this story threaten the central family with a lawsuit, which causes the 
violin-playing Grete to realize that her family must get rid of the central character. For 10 points, name this Kafka story about the 
transformation of Gregor Samsa into an insect.   
ANSWER:  
The  Metamorphosis 
 [or  
Die  Verwandlung 
] 
020-09-2-10125 
10. This biome is the subject of a hypothesis confirmed by Harry Ladd. That hypothesis, by Charles Darwin, states that this biome 
increases to keep up with the sinking of the Earth's crust. Organisms that contribute to this biome's matrix are known as 
framework builders; those organisms produce calcium carbonate and silica. This biome comprises the inner and outer parts of an 
atoll. For 10 points, name this marine biome produced mostly by its namesake animal, an example of which is the Great Barrier 
one off the coast of Australia. 
ANSWER: coral  
reef 
003-09-2-10126 
11. The Imperial Colors Incident was a failed uprising against this ruler. This man was the son of Taisho, and during one war this 
ruler's country was led by Prime Minister Tojo. During his reign, the Mukden and Marco Polo Bridge incidents happened. A failed 
military coup attempted to destroy a \"jewel record\" of this man announcing his country's unconditional surrender after Bock's Car 
and the Enola Gay dropped nuclear weapons on his nation. For 10 points, name this Emperor of Japan during World War Two. 
ANSWER:  
Hirohito 
021-09-2-10127 
12. This playwright wrote a trilogy based on the  
Oresteia 
 in which Ezra Mannon's death portends the downfall of Orin and 
Lavinia. This author of  
Desire Under the Elms 
 and  
Mourning Becomes Electra 
 wrote a play that is set in Harry Hope's bar, whose 
denizens renew their \"pipe dreams\" after \"Hickey\" Hickman kills his wife. For 10 points, name this American playwright of  
The 
Iceman Cometh 
 and  
Long Day's Journey into Night 
. 
ANSWER:    Eugene Gladstone  
O'Neill 
024-09-2-10128 
13. The Eötvös effect is the vertical component of this phenomenon. It becomes negligible when the dimenstionless quantity also 
known as the Kibel number, the Rossby number, is large. Its strength is proportional to the velocity of an objects and the angular 
velocity of the frame. For 10 points, what effect, which accounts for atmospheric and oceanic current, occurs when a rotating 
frame of reference creates a fictitious force that causes projectiles to appear deflected? 
ANSWER:  
Coriolis 
 effect 
034-09-2-10129 
14. A source of resistance in this country was quelled in 1966 with the capture of the kabaka's palace at Mengo. This country 
attempted to annex the Kangara region in 1978. Yoweri Museveni (muus-VAY-nee) came to power in this country in 1986. Israel 
conducted the Entebbe Raid in this nation, and Milton Obote led this nation twice. One of its leaders expelled this country's Asian 
citizens in 1972. For 10 points, name this African country that was once led by Idi Amin. 
ANSWER:   
Uganda 
030-09-2-10130 
15. Items that two characters in this book discover in a knot in a tree include figurines carved in soap and mint gum. One character 
is convicted of rape despite the fact that a withered arm proves he could not have committed the crime, and that man, Tom, is 
defended by the protagonist's father. The book's title action is declared to be a sin by that man, Atticus. For 10 points, name this 
book about Scout Finch, a novel by Harper Lee. 
ANSWER:  
To Kill A Mockingbird 
032-09-2-10131 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 25     Page  6 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 25 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. One holy figure in this religion, Amar Das, compiled the  
Goindval Pothis 
. Members of this religion practice in gurdwaras, and 
an idealized figure in religion is Gobind. This religion's emblems of the Khalsa, which include long shorts, a steel bracelet, a 
comb, a ceremonial dagger, and uncut hair are known as the \"Five Ks.\" The holiest shrine in this religion is Amritsar's Golden 
Temple, and its scripture is the Adi Granth. For 10 points, name this Indian religion founded by Guru Nanak. 
ANSWER:  
Sikhism 
030-09-2-10132 
2. In one of this author's novels, Mariam and Laila form a close bond because of the brutal abuse delivered by their husband 
Rasheed. In another of this author's novels, Assef rapes Hassan on the day that Amir wins a local tournament in Kabul. This 
author's two major novels are set in his home country, Afghanistan. For 10 points, name this author of A Thousand Splendid Suns 
and The Kite Runner. 
ANSWER: Khaled  
Hosseini 
004-09-2-10133 
3. The title character of this opera sings the aria \"Ritorna vincitor\" (ree-TOR-nah VEEN-key-tor) about her conflicted loyalties. In 
this opera, the king Amanasro (ah-mah-NAS-roh) is captured while disguised as a peasant. The lead tenor in this opera is engaged 
to marry Amneris (ahm-NEY-ris), but is instead sealed in a tomb to die. This opera focuses on a princess of Ethiopia who is 
enslaved by Egypt and falls in love with Radames (RAA-da-meez). For 10 points, name this opera, commissioned to celebrate the 
opening of the Suez Canal and written by Giuseppe Verdi. 
ANSWER:    
Aida 
 (eye-EE-duh) 
019-09-2-10134 
4. Toxicity of this substance can result in Minamata disease or acrodynia, which is also called \"pink disease.\" The ore of this metal 
is a birefringent mineral called cinnabar. Common uses for this element include cathode formation to produce chlorine and in 
liquid mirror scopes, although it is decreasingly used in thermometers. For 10 points, name this element, a metal that is liquid at 
room temperature, symbolized Hg. 
ANSWER:   
mercury 
 [or  
Hg 
 before it is read] 
032-09-2-10135 
5. This organism's teeth were described as \"lethal bananas\" rather than the typical flat blades seen in other contemporary 
carnivorous animals. Fossils of this organism have been almost exclusively confined to western North America, though a similar 
species,  
Tarbosaurus bataar 
 (TAR-bo-SOR-us buh-TAR), was discovered in the Gobi Desert. In 2007, a collagen sample from 
this relative of Albertosaurus was found to be homologous to that of chickens. For 10 points, name this largest-known terrestrial 
carnivore. 
ANSWER:  
Tyrannosaurus  rex 
 [or  
T. rex 
] 
003-09-2-10136 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 25     Page  7 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
