2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 8 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The first of these devices was created with a synthetic ruby crystal by Theodore H. Maiman. The first 
one of these based on gases used helium and neon. These devices are created by placing a pair of mirrors 
on either side of a gain medium, then pumping the gain medium so that the atoms within achieve 
population inversion and release photons of a defined energy. For 10 points, name these devices that 
produce a beam of monochromatic, coherent light. 
ANSWER:  
laser 
 [or  
light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation 
] 
048-13-74-08101 
2. During this President's administration, rates were significantly cut by the new Underwood Tariff. During 
his administration, Carter Glass and Robert Owen created the Federal Reserve. This President clashed with 
Henry Cabot Lodge over the ratification of a treaty. He supported freedom of the seas in his speech on the 
Fourteen Points. For 10 points, identify this President, who failed to get the Senate to ratify the Treaty of 
Versailles, and led the United States during World War I. 
ANSWER: Thomas Woodrow  
Wilson 
189-13-74-08102 
3. This city’s Old Quarter is located around Hoam Kiem Lake. An old university is found in this city’s 
Temple of Literature. The Thang Long is a prominent water puppet theater located in this city. A museum 
for the Hoa Lo Prison is located in this city, which is home to the Temple of the Trung Sisters. Haiphong 
serves as this city’s chief port. This city is located about eighty-five miles inland from the South China Sea 
on the Red River. For 10 points, name this city that is the capital of Vietnam. 
ANSWER:  
Hanoi 
030-13-74-08103 
4. This man wrote a poem in which the speaker implores the title creature to \"teach me half the gladness 
that thy brain must known.\" He also described \"a sneer of cold command.\" This author was inspired by a 
walk to write a poem that begins, \"Hail to thee, blithe spirit!\" In one of his poems, he asks, \"If Winter 
comes, can Spring be far behind?\" For 10 points, name this British poet who wrote \"Ozymandias,\" \"To a 
Skylark,\" and \"Ode to the West Wind.\" 
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe  
Shelley 
052-13-74-08104 
5. Constituents of this structure are cleaved in order to form arachidonic acid, which in turn can be used to 
form leukotrienes or prostaglandins. G-protein coupled receptors traverse it seven times. This structure’s 
constituents can move laterally, but not intrafacially, in accordance with the fluid mosaic model. This 
structure consists of a double layer of phospholipids. For 10 points, name this structure just inside the cell 
wall, the barrier between the inside and outside of a cell. 
ANSWER: cell  
membrane 
 [or plasma  
membrane 
] 
048-13-74-08105 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  1 of 9 
6. \"Code-breaking\" refers to the phenomenon of usurping the purpose of these behaviors. One example of 
these behaviors was used to coin the term \"supernormal stimuli\" by Tinbergen. Examples of these 
behaviors are the stickleback fish attacking anything with a red underbelly and graylag geese rolling eggs 
into their nests. These behaviors are triggered by a sign stimulus. For 10 points, name these animal 
behaviors which are hard-wired and run to completion once initiated. 
ANSWER:  
fixed action pattern 
s [or  
FAP 
] 
048-13-74-08106 
7. This composer set John Donne and Emily Dickinson poems in his cantata  
Harmonium. 
 He depicted the 
1994 Los Angeles earthquake in  
I Was Looking at the Ceiling and Then I Saw the Sky. 
 In his most notable 
opera, characters view a performance of \"The Red Detachment of Women,\" before Mao Zedong descends 
from a portrait, in a section that became \"The Chairman Dances.\" For 10 points, name this American 
composer of  
Nixon in China. 
ANSWER: John Coolidge  
Adams 
019-13-74-08107 
8. \"Lagerstatten\" is a term used to denote locations where many of these can be found. Stromatolites and 
coprolites are examples of these objects. Othniel Marsh and Edward Cope fought a war over them. Mazon 
Creek and the Burgess Shale contain extensive caches of these objects. Geologic periods are defined by the 
presence of their index type. A strong piece of evidence for evolution is the existence of their so-called 
record. For 10 points, identify these remains of ancient organisms. 
ANSWER:  
fossil 
s [prompt on  
bone 
s] 
140-13-74-08108 
9. Joe Subic was the only member of the military involved in this event who was denied a medal. An 
aborted plan to address this event was Operation Credible Sport, which was rendered unnecessary by the 
Algiers Accords. A previous attempt to end this event was the unsuccessful Operation Eagle Claw. This 
event lasted 444 days and ended just after the inauguration of Ronald Reagan. For 10 points, name this 
1979 to 1981 incident in which fifty-two Americans were imprisoned by a new Islamic government. 
ANSWER:  
Iran hostage 
 crisis [or equivalent descriptive answers] 
019-13-74-08109 
10. Historian Martin Bernal wrote a work with a title that referred to this goddess as \"Black.\" Cecrops 
mediated a dispute between Poseidon and her for the possession of Attica. In response to the rape of 
Cassandra by Ajax, she sent a storm that sank the Greek fleet returning from Troy. This goddess ripped 
apart a tapestry depicting the faults of the gods after losing a weaving contest to Arachne. For 10 points, 
name this Greek goddess of handicraft and war, who was born out of the head of Zeus. 
ANSWER: Pallas  
Athena 
 [or  
Athene 
] 
030-13-74-08110 
11. A bond between aluminum and three of these ions creates gibbsite, which is a primary component of 
bauxite. Combining one atom of beryllium with two of this ion creates an amphoteric substance. Slaked 
lime consists of calcium combined with two of these ions. The ionic compound of this substance with 
sodium is a commonly used base in titrations and detergent manufacture. For 10 points, name this highly 
basic ion, which combines with a hydrogen ion in order to form water. 
ANSWER:  
hydroxide 
 [or  
OH 
 minus] 
048-13-74-08111 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  2 of 9 
12. This book includes the real person Bernard O'Hare as a character, at whose house the author promises 
Mary that this book will not exalt war. The protagonist of this book is saved by Roland Weary, but is killed 
years later by Paul Lazarro. Edgar Derby is shot for looting a teapot in this book, which also includes the 
protagonist being imprisoned with Montana Wildhack in a Tralfamadorian zoo. For 10 points, name this 
book in which Billy Pilgrim becomes \"unstuck in time,\" a World War II novel by Kurt Vonnegut. 
ANSWER:  
Slaughterhouse-Five 
019-13-74-08112 
13. It's not a computer, but Joseph Jacquard built one of these machines that received punched cards for its 
operation. Edmund Cartwright designed the first mechanical type in 1785. John Kay's flying shuttle 
allowed one person to efficiently use one of these machines. The Frame Breaking Act was intended to 
protect this type of machine against workers who feared it put them out of work, called Luddites. For 10 
points, name this machine used for weaving. 
ANSWER:  
loom 
121-13-74-08113 
14. The Gezira is a strip of land located between two branches of this river. The Dumyat and Rashid are 
two of this river's distributaries. A portion of this river is named for Lake Albert. Another portion of this 
river is known as Al-Jabal and drains the Al-Sudd. Part of this river’s autumn flood is stored at Lake 
Nasser by the Aswan High Dam, and this river includes Blue and White branches. For 10 points, name this 
river that annually floods Egypt and is the longest river in the world. 
ANSWER:  
Nile 
030-13-74-08114 
15. A group of people with this job was the militant Nation of Domination led by Faarooq. Another man in 
this line of work was the victim of an incident in Montreal that helped Shawn Michaels. Ted Turner 
featured people of this occupation on the now-defunct television shows  
Thunder 
 and  
Nitro. 
 A current man 
with this job has such enemies as Dolph Ziggler and A.J. Lee and is feuding with C.M. Punk. For 10 points, 
name this occupation of John Cena, The Undertaker, and Hulk Hogan. 
ANSWER:  
wrestler 
 [or word forms or obvious synonyms; do not accept \"boxer\"] 
052-13-74-08115 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  3 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 8 
Directed Round 
1A.  What Irish champion of the 2011 U.S. Open and 2012 PGA tournament is currently the number 
one-ranked golfer in the world? 
ANSWER: Rory  
McIlroy 
1B.  The IPA is a writing system for linguistics that represents what units of sound, the smallest 
distinguishable unit of meaning in language? 
ANSWER:  
phoneme 
s 
2A.  What people used quick,  
assegai 
-wielding warriors in the \"horns of the bull\" formation created by 
Shaka, their first king? 
ANSWER: ama 
Zulu 
2B.  Name the ancient Greek sculptor who depicted winners of the 456 and 448 BCE Olympic Games, as 
well as a sportsman known as “the discus-thrower.” 
ANSWER:  
Myron 
 of Elutherae 
3A.  What category of numbers cannot be expressed as roots of polynomial equations with rational 
coefficients? 
ANSWER:  
transcendental 
 numbers 
3B.  If an object is \"galazio\" in Greek, \"laahm\" in Cantonese, and \"azul\" (ah-ZOOL) in Spanish, what is it 
in English? 
ANSWER:  
blue 
4A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. An external angle of a regular polygon measures 12 degrees. 
How many sides does the polygon have? 
ANSWER:  
15 
4B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Define the operation \"a star b\" to be equal to a squared minus 
b. Find 10 star 17. 
ANSWER:  
83 
5A.  What ruler created the League of Corinth and was the father of Alexander the Great? 
ANSWER:  
Philip II 
 [or  
Philip of Macedon 
ia; prompt on  
Philip 
] 
5B.  Name the country which is fighting a war with Blefuscu over how to crack an egg in  
Gulliver's 
Travels. 
ANSWER:  
Lilliput 
6A.  Two yellow books and the herb foxglove sit on a table, which the title subject leans on, in what van 
Gogh painting that depicts his psychiatrist? 
ANSWER:  
Portrait of Dr. Gachet 
6B.  Name the Dutch Jewish philosopher who advocated freedom of religion in the  
Tractactus 
Theologico-Politicus 
 but is more known for his pantheistic, geometrically constructed work of 
metaphysical and moral philosophy,  
Ethics. 
ANSWER: Baruch  
Spinoza 
 [or Benedict de  
Spinoza 
; or Benedictus de  
Spinoza 
] 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  4 of 9 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. The test scores in a certain statistics class were normally 
distributed, with 95% falling between 49 and 85. What was the standard deviation of the scores? 
ANSWER:  
9 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A circle has diameter 40 centimeters. What is the length of 
the arc subtended by a central angle of 45 degrees? Express your answer in terms of pi. 
ANSWER:  
5 pi 
 centimeters 
8A.  Who directed the comedies  
Bananas, Annie Hall, 
   and  
Manhattan? 
ANSWER: Woody  
Allen 
 [or Allan Stewart  
Konigsberg 
] 
8B.   
The Castle of Otranto 
 is generally considered to be the first novel in what genre, popular at the turn of 
the eighteenth century, which was characterized by horror and supernatural themes? 
ANSWER:  
Gothic 
 fiction 
9A.  MD5, a mostly-collision-free example, is what type of algorithm that maps a variable size input to a 
fixed-length string? 
ANSWER:  
hash 
 function 
9B.  In December 2012, what bank agreed to pay just under two billion dollars to the U.S. government to 
settle accusations of laundering drug money? 
ANSWER:  
HSBC 
10A.  What Nigerian playwright wrote  
The Lion and the Jewel 
 and  
Death and the King's Horseman 
? 
ANSWER: Wole  
Soyinka 
 [or Akinwande Oluwole  
Soyinka 
] 
10B.  What substances, which include mayonnaise, are colloids in which a liquid is dispersed in another 
liquid? 
ANSWER:  
emulsion 
s 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  5 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 8 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A procedure that makes use of these particles uses fludeoxyglucose (FLOO-de-ox-ee-GLOO-cos) as a 
tracer to measure the metabolic activity of tissues; that procedure is its namesake \"emission tomography.\" 
The existence of this particle was predicted by Dirac in relation to his namesake equation. This particle was 
discovered by Carl Anderson, as the first example of antimatter. For 10 points, identify this positively 
charged antiparticle of the electron. 
ANSWER:  
positron 
066-13-74-08117 
2. One religious leader in this country was executed by order of Amir Kabir after prophesying \"the one who 
God shall make manifest.\" That man founded a religion in this country that venerates  
The Book of 
Certitude. 
 This country was ruled for a millennium by followers of a religion that believes in the evil Angra 
Mainyu and the good god Ahura Mazda. For 10 points, name this homeland of Bahai and Zoroastrianism, 
which is now the world’s largest Shia Muslim country and is ruled by Shia ayatollahs. 
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of  
Iran 
 [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye  
Iran 
; or  
Persia 
n Empire] 
019-13-74-08118 
3. An oft-studied reflex in  
Aplysia californica 
 occurs when the siphon and these organs are withdrawn in 
response to a stimulus. They are similar in appearance to the pseudobranch, which is homologous to the ear 
opening in vertebrates. Bony processes called rakers are responsible for retaining food particles in them. 
They are covered by a membrane called the operculum, and in cartilaginous animals, they consist of a 
series of slits. For 10 points, name these organs, used by fish to exchange gases with the environment. 
ANSWER:  
gill 
s 
048-13-74-08119 
4. The Zuavi Pontifici were formed to oppose this process, which was supported by the Expedition of the 
Thousand. This process was finalized in 1870, creating a \"prisoner\" status for Pius IX; nine years earlier, it 
triggered the re-crowning of Victor Emmanuel II. This series of events was orchestrated by Count Cavour 
and militarily aided by the Redshirts of Giuseppe Garibaldi. For 10 points, identify this process that unified 
disparate states such as Piedmont and the Two Sicilies into the new Kingdom of Italy. 
ANSWER: the  
Risorgimento 
 [or descriptive answers such as the  
unification of Italy 
 until \"Italy\" is read] 
019-13-74-08120 
5. One value found in this equation can be used to find the deceleration parameter and is squared on one 
side of the Friedmann equations. The constant found in this equation is equal to one over the age of the 
universe, or 74 kilometers per second per megaparsec. This law states that the Doppler shift of distant 
objects in space is proportional to their distance away from the observer. For 10 points, name this 
astronomical law, whose discoverer is also honored by a space telescope. 
ANSWER:  
Hubble 
's law 
048-13-74-08121 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  6 of 9 
6. The title character of this play used to pull a classmate's hair in school and threaten to burn it off. At the 
end of this play, the title character shoots herself to avoid entrapment in an adulterous relationship with 
Judge Brack. The protagonist of this play burns a crucial manuscript and advises Eilert Lovborg to kill 
himself for the sake of her husband's advancement. For 10 points, name this Henrik Ibsen play about the 
manipulative wife of George Tesman. 
ANSWER:  
Hedda Gabler 
080-13-74-08122 
7. Opposition to this event led Lord Fisher to resign, and its initial failure caused Charles Monro to replace 
Ian Hamilton. French participants in this operation landed at Kum Kale, while the British attacked Cape 
Helles and troops from Australia and New Zealand targeted what became known as the ANZAC beaches. 
Lasting from February 1915 to January 1916, it was repelled by troops under Mustafa Kemal. For 10 
points, name this bloody attempt at an amphibious invasion of Turkey during World War I. 
ANSWER:  
Gallipoli 
 landing [or  
Dardanelles campaign 
] 
019-13-74-08123 
8. This author wrote an homage to Samuel Richardson in his  
Another Pamela: Or Virtue Still Rewarded. 
He included  
Wide Is the Gate 
 and  
World's End 
 in his massive series about mid-century international 
politics, which follows Lanny Budd. This author ran for governor on the End Poverty in California ticket, 
and he described James Ross in  
Oil! 
 For 10 points, name this socialist novelist who described Jurgis 
Rudkis's misadventures in the meatpacking industry in  
The Jungle. 
ANSWER: Upton  
Sinclair 
 [or Upton Beall  
Sinclair 
] 
019-13-74-08124 
9. Roughly thirty people were arrested in this country in December 2012 following the burning of a copy of 
the Qur'an. An institution in this country, the Government Girls Decree College, nearly renamed itself after 
a person who was attacked in this country by an organization represented by Ehsanullah Ehsan. That 
advocate for education and women's rights reform here is Malala Yousafzai. For 10 points, identify this 
Asian country, currently led by Asif Ali Zardari. 
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of  
Pakistan 
 [or Jamhuryat Islami  
Pakistan 
] 
189-13-74-08125 
10. This poet depicted a woman who refuses to pay for a long-distance collect call in \"Madam and the 
Phone Bill.\" He declared \"America never was America to me\" in one poem, and, in another, he begins, 
\"The instructor said, go home and write a page tonight.\" This poet of \"Theme for English B\" and \"The 
Weary Blues\" also wrote, \"My soul has grown deep like the rivers,\" in another poem. For 10 points, name 
this author of \"The Negro Speaks of Rivers,\" a poet of the Harlem Renaissance. 
ANSWER: Langston  
Hughes 
 [or James Mercer Langston  
Hughes 
] 
019-13-74-08126 
11. In 1914, this company introduced an unheard-of five-dollar payment for an eight-hour workday. The 
first president of this company from outside its namesake family was Robert McNamara. In 1937, guards 
working for this company attacked Walter Reuther at the \"Battle of the Overpass.\" This was the only Big 
Three company to reject TARP bailout money in 2008. For 10 points, name this company whose Dearborn 
plant perfected the assembly line, and which brought cars to the masses with the Model T. 
ANSWER:  
Ford 
 Motor Company 
019-13-74-08127 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  7 of 9 
12. Section markings in this piece include the \"lentement\" and the \"rigaudon.\" The most familiar portion of 
this musical piece is the conclusion of its first suite, the \"Alla Hornpipe.\" It is divided into three component 
suites, which are in F, D, and G major. At its debut, it was played three times in a row because it delighted 
its target audience, King George I. For 10 points, name this composition by George Handel, which is 
named because of its debut performance from barges on the Thames River. 
ANSWER: the  
Water Music 
019-13-74-08128 
13. One character in this poem predicts the defeat of the White Guelfs. Antaeus is a giant who transports 
the main characters of this poem between two areas. The earthly bodies of Fra Alberigo and Branca d'Oria 
have been possessed in this epic, but their souls are in the title place. Count Ugolino gnaws on the head of 
Archbishop Ruggieri in a frozen section of its title realm. For 10 points, name this poem in which Vergil 
guides Dante through the nine circles of Hell. 
ANSWER: the  
Inferno 
 [prompt on  
The  Divine Comedy 
; prompt on  
La Divina  Commedia 
] 
030-13-74-08129 
14. This city is named after a man who worked for surveyors of the Connecticut Land Company, as it once 
belonged to Connecticut’s Western Reserve. This American city has a museum with a glass pyramid 
designed by I.M. Pei. This city is located at the mouth of a river which notoriously caught fire in June of 
1969. It is home to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. For 10 points, name this second-largest Ohio city, 
located on the mouth of the Cuyahoga River and on the shores of Lake Erie. 
ANSWER:  
Cleveland 
052-13-74-08130 
15. One catalyst used to form this substance contains two iodine and two carbonyl ligands attached to an 
iridium atom in a square planar arrangement. That is the Cativa catalyst, which forms this substance via the 
carbonylation of methanol. At 16.6 degrees Celsius, crystals of the anhydrous form of this substance can be 
isolated in the \"glacial\" form of it. For 10 points, name this substance with formula CH3COOH, which is 
the primary component of vinegar. 
ANSWER:  
acetic acid 
 [or  
acetate 
] 
048-13-74-08131 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  8 of 9 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 8 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This quantity is the conjugate variable of entropy. The energy radiated by a blackbody is proportional to 
the fourth power of this quantity. Subtracting the product of this value with the change in entropy from the 
change in enthalpy gives the Gibbs free energy. This measure roughly quantifies the average kinetic energy 
of a gas. One mole of a gas occupies 22.4 liters at the standard value for this quantity and pressure. For 10 
points, name this quantity whose \"absolute\" type is kelvins. 
ANSWER:  
temperature 
 [or  ] 
T 
048-13-74-08132 
2. This poet observed \"black phones on hooks, glittering, glittering and digesting\" in \"the morgue between 
Paris and Rome\" in a poem that opens, \"Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children.\" This poet of \"The 
Munich Mannequins\" concluded, \"Out of the ash I rise with my red hair, and I eat men like air,\" in \"Lady 
Lazarus.\" In another poem, she compares her father and her husband Ted Hughes to Nazis. For 10 points, 
name this suicidal poet of the collection  
Ariel, 
 which includes her poem \"Daddy.\" 
ANSWER: Sylvia  
Plath 
019-13-74-08133 
3. One form of this quantity can be calculated using a Mohr circle. Applying too much of it can cause an 
object to exceed its yield point. It is found in the numerator of Young’s modulus. The definition of Le 
Chatelier’s principle states that a system counteracts the effects of an applied one of these. Like pressure, 
this quantity is measured in pascals and equals the applied force over an area, resulting in a strain. For 10 
points, name this term describing a physical or emotional tension. 
ANSWER:  
stress 
064-13-74-08134 
4. Gordon Baum founded a group with this acronym as its name that publishes the racist  
Citizens Informer 
; 
the Republican Party ordered members to resign from that group in 1998 in protest. Members of another 
group with this acronym received living supplies and thirty dollars a month, effectively lowering 
unemployment by half a million, and engaged in building floodwalls. For 10 points, give this acronym for a 
New Deal organization that also planted trees and maintained forests. 
ANSWER:  
CCC 
 [or  
Council of Conservative Citizens 
; or  
Civilian Conservation Corps 
] 
019-13-74-08135 
5. The speaker of this poem asks, “On what wings dare he aspire? What the hand dare seize the fire?” Two 
stanzas later, the speaker wonders about the furnace in which the subject’s brain was forged. The speaker 
of this poem asks the title creature, “What immortal hand or eye dare frame thy fearful symmetry?” For 10 
points, name this poem about an animal “burning bright in the forests of the night,” written by William 
Blake. 
ANSWER: “The  
Tyger 
” 
014-13-74-08136 
This is a calculation question. What is the surface area of a tetrahedron in which each edge is 4 inches 
long? Express your answer in simple radical form. 
ANSWER:   times the square  
16 root 
 of   square inches [or   times  
3 16 rad 
ical   square inches] 
3 
Which American chemist defined acids as electron pair acceptors, and developed a namesake dot structure 
method? 
ANSWER: Gilbert Newton  
Lewis 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regionals     8     Page  9 of 9 
