National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 12 
Tossups 
1. This politician survived a vote of no confidence brought on by the defection of Herbert Hupka only 
because secret police from a neighboring nation bribed Julius Steiner and Leo Wagner. This politician 
formally recognized the Oder-Neisse line during his term in office. He disguised himself as a Norwegian 
student named Gunnar Gaasland during World War II to escape the Nazis. He was succeeded in office by 
Helmut Schmidt after it was revealed that his assistant Gunter Guillaume was a spy. He superseded the the 
Hallstein Doctrine by championing a policy of \"Change through Rapprochement\" that sought to normalize 
his country's relationship with its eastern neighbor. For 10 points, name this former mayor of Berlin and 
chancellor of West Germany, known for his policy of Ostpolitik. 
ANSWER: Willy  
Brandt 
 [or Herbert Ernst Karl  
Frahm 
] 
025-09-12-12102 
2. This play ends with a character using his bus fare to listen to a jukebox playing \"Little Man You've Had 
a Busy Day.\" After receiving a phone call from a hospital, the protagonist of this play mocks his father by 
imagining cripples competing for a chamberpot filled to the brim with piss. That phone call interrupts a 
waiter who compares violence to collisions on a dance floor while describing a waltz competition to the 
title schoolboy. The climax of this play occurs when its only white character demands to be called by the 
title honorific after spitting in the face of a black employee of the St. George's Park Tea Room in South 
Africa. For 10 points, name this autobiographical play about a conversation between Sam, Willie, and the 
young Hally, written by Athol Fugard. 
ANSWER:  
\"Master Harold\"...And The Boys 
004-09-12-12103 
3. This essay calls travelling a \"superstition\" caused by a \"want of self-culture\" because travellers merely 
carry \"ruins to ruins.\" The author of this essay recalls hearing a \"valued advisor\" warn that his \"impulses 
may be from below, not from above,\" causing the author to assert \"if I am the Devil's child, I will live then 
from the Devil.\" This essay claims that \"Society everywhere is in conspiracy against the manhood of every 
one of its members,\" and calls \"A foolish consistency\" the \"hobgoblin of little minds.\" This essay argues 
that \"Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind,\" and asserts \"Whoso would be a man 
must be a nonconformist.\" For 10 points, name this essay which urges readers to trust their intuition and 
common sense, written by Ralph Waldo Emerson. 
ANSWER: \" 
Self-Reliance 
\" 
004-09-12-12104 
4. Devices making use of this behavior can often be modeled as Butterworth-van Dyke equivalent circuits. 
Temperature-dependent resonant frequencies are a hallmark of resonators made out of materials with this 
property. It has direct and converse forms, the latter of which Langevin used in his sonar devices and the 
former of which is used in the quartz crystal microbalance. All ferroelectric materials have both 
pyroelectricity and this property. Crystals with this property, such as Rochelle salts, necessarily lack a 
center of symmetry. Discovered by Pierre and Jacques Curie, for 10 points, name this property in which 
voltage is generated by mechanical stress on a crystal. 
ANSWER:  
piezoelectric 
ity [or  
piezoelectric 
 effect] 
001-09-12-12105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  1 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This period was the subject of negotiations at Cierna. Those who fomented this period were angry over 
the lingering effects of the Slansky trials of sixteen years prior. It was preceded by the fourth congress of 
the Writers Union and it saw the publication of \"The Two Thousand Words.\" Events during this period 
included the self-immolation of Jan Palach and the creation of the Action Program. The beginning of this 
period saw the replacement of Antonin Novotny. It was followed by a period of \"normalization\" under 
Gustav Husák. This period saw the introduction of programs based around \"socialism with a human face\" 
and it was ended by a Soviet invasion. For 10 points, name this time period sparked by the 1968 reforms of 
Alexander Dub?ek in the Czechoslovak capital. 
ANSWER:  
Prague Spring 
 [or  
Prazske jaro 
; or  
Prazska jar 
] 
001-09-12-12106 
6. One pathway for the production of these compounds contains the intermediates methyl erythritol 
phosphate, which is upstream of ent-Kaurene. Placobutrazol and ancymidol both work by inhibiting these 
compounds, which operate by triggering the degradation of the DELLA repressors. They stimulate 
production of alpha-amylase in aleurone cells and they are used in the production of Thomson Seedless 
Grapes. All of them are diterpenes, and the first one was identified by Eiichi Kurosawa after studying 
bakanae, a condition that causes foolish seedling disease in rice. For 10 points, name this class of plant 
hormones that stimulates stem elongation. 
ANSWER:  
gibberellins 
 [accept  
GA 
] 
064-09-12-12107 
7. As a test, this character orders his wife to attempt to seduce the rider of Gringolet. This character 
respectively receives one, two, and three kisses in exchange for venison, a boar's head, and the skin of a 
fox. He draws blood from another character because of that character's possession of a magic girdle, before 
revealing that he is the host of Castle Hautdesert. At the beginning of the poem he appears in, he picks up 
his head and rides away after being decapitated by an axe. He reveals that he is Sir Bertilak after playing a 
beheading game with a member of the Round Table. For 10 points, identify this distinctively colored 
character from a medieval English poem named for this character and Sir Gawain. 
ANSWER: the  
Green Knight 
 [accept Sir  
Bertilak 
 de Hautdesert before mentioned] 
004-09-12-12108 
8. This man destroyed the Pittsburgh Crawfords by recruiting all of its best players, starting with Satchel 
Paige, to play for his personal baseball team. Morris Ernst defended this man in his trial for the kidnapping 
and murder of Jesus Maria Galindez, a Columbia University professor who spoke out against this dictator’s 
regime. Popular support for this dictator waned after the murder of the Mirabal sisters by his secret police, 
the SIM. The June 14 movement attempted to overthrow his government with the help of the newly-formed 
Castro regime; this led to CIA involvement in the plot that ultimately assassinated him. This man attempted 
to \"whiten\" his country by inviting Jewish Holocaust refugees and instituting the doctrine of 
antihaitianismo, culminating in the 1937 massacre of people who could not pronounce the Spanish word for 
\"parsley.\" For 10 points, name this dictator of the Dominican Republic from 1930 to 1961. 
ANSWER: Rafael Leonidas  
Trujillo 
 Molina 
003-09-12-12109 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  2 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. This figure, who dropped boulders on some Amazons, had Poseidon flood the plain of Xanthus while he 
fought the pirate Cheirmarrhus, whose women lifted their robes up in retreat. He was offered the hand of 
Philonoe in marriage and spent his last days as a blind cripple on the Aleion Plain. Earlier, this possible 
murderer of Deliades was falsely accused of trying to romance Stheneboea, the wife of Proteus, who sent 
him to Lycia to await the judgment of King Iobates. Instead, he slew the Chimera with the aid of a mount 
that would later throw him when he attempted to reach the top of Olympus. For 10 points, identify this 
Greek hero who rode Pegasus. 
ANSWER:  
Bellerophon 
tes 
019-09-12-12110 
10. This artist painted three green goblets below dogs drinking from a pot of water in  
Still Life with Three 
Puppies 
. This artist vowed to commit suicide after finishing a painting whose bottom right portrays a white 
bird holding a lizard in its claws to represent the \"futility of words.\" His self portraits include one with his 
head in the form of a jug and one with a halo in front of a red and yellow background. He painted a yellow 
child in a white loincloth reaching up to pluck a fruit in a painting that is divided into three sections, and 
depicts a blue idol in its tropical background. He painted many pictures of praying Breton women, 
including  
The Vision After the Sermon 
 and  
The Yellow Christ 
. For 10 points, name this French 
Post-Impressionist who painted  
Where do we come from? What are we? Where are we going? 
 after moving 
to Tahiti. 
ANSWER: [Eugene Henri] Paul  
Gauguin 
032-09-12-12111 
11. The sixth of these works follows an English horn lament with a xylophone-led scherzo and a \"sarcastic 
march\" in the saxophones. The last of these works uses a flugelhorn theme to depict the arrest of Tess of 
the D'Urbervilles at Stonehenge in its  
andante sostenuto 
 second movement. The second of these works 
features harps and clarinets playing the recurrent Westminister Chimes theme. The first one sets the Walt 
Whitman poems \"Passage to India\" and \"On the Beach at Night Alone,\" was originally titled  
The Ocean 
, 
and features a third movement scherzo depicting the crashing of waves. For 10 points, name this group of 
nine works, which includes  
A London Symphony 
 and  
A Sea Symphony 
 and were written by the 
twentieth-century British composer of  
Fantasia on a Theme of Thomas Tallis 
. 
ANSWER: the  
symphonies 
 of Ralph Vaughn  
Williams 
019-09-12-12112 
12. One class of these entities can be used as a standard candle due to its consistent absolute magnitude of 
about -19.3. Systems that become these later transition to a snow-plow phase and are absorbed by the 
surrounding medium. The r and p nucleosynthesis processes become dominant in these objects, which are 
thus the source of almost all heavy elements. Broadly, these occur because the specific binding energy 
curve is peaked, so fusion becomes energetically unfavorable after the formation iron - that leads to the 
nickel-iron core formation that proceeds the usual type of these. They can also take place in white dwarves 
made to exceed a mass of about 1.44 solar masses, the Chandrasekhar limit. Classes of them include type Ia 
(\"one a\") and type II. For 10 points, name these massive explosions of stars. 
ANSWER:  
supernova 
s [do not accept or prompt on \"novas\"; prompt on cataclysmic  
variable 
s or  
binary 
systems before the end of \"become dominant in these objects\"] 
022-09-12-12113 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  3 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. In a novella by this author, Stumpy McPherson and the Rainey twins witness the protagonist fight a 
barroom brawl against her gas station robbing ex-husband Marvin Macy. One of this author's characters 
attempts, but fails, to compose a song called \"This Thing I Want, I Know Not What,\" and fashions a violin 
out of a cracked ukelele. This author wrote a novella set in an unnamed mill town, where Miss Amelia 
Evans falls in love with the hunchbacked dwarf Cousin Lymon Willis and reopens the title institution. In a 
novel by this author, Dr. Coleman, Jake Blount, and Biff Brannon confide in a deaf-mute who commits 
suicide after learning of the death of Spiros Antonapoulos, John Singer. For 10 points, name this American 
author of  
The Ballad of the Sad Café 
 and  
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter 
. 
ANSWER: Carson  
McCullers 
015-09-12-12114 
14. While campaigning in Castlecomer, this man had quicklime thrown in his eyes. He was cleared in a 
criminal investigation when evidence turned out to have been the work of forger Richard Piggott. His 
radical views caused him to clash with Isaac Butt. While in jail, this man negotiated a land reform 
agreement entitled the Kilmainham Treaty. His political career took a hit amid allegations that he had 
illegitimately fathered several of “Kitty” O’Shea’s children. Despite condemning it, he was accused of 
being involved in the deaths of Frederick Cavendish and T.H. Burke in the Phoenix Park murders. For 10 
points, name this nineteenth-century land reform and Home Rule activist who founded the Irish 
Parliamentary Party. 
ANSWER: Charles Stewart  
Parnell 
052-09-12-12115 
15. This ballet's conceit was expanded from a programmatic piano concerto into a full story by Alexander 
Benois. Benois abandoned its original conception as a duel provoked by an arpeggio fan, who goads an 
exhausted orchestra into a series of trumpet blasts. In its final tableau, a clarinet and tuba depict \"the 
peasant and the bear\" and other set-pieces such as \"the dance of the coachmen and grooms\" animating a 
Shrovetide fair. The title figure's frustration is represented by two clarinets simultaneously playing in C 
major and F sharp major, creating this ballet's namesake chord. At the end, the title character's ghost 
condemns the magician who has allowed a Moor to kill him, as his body leaks sawdust below. For 10 
points, name this ballet about a puppet who is brought to life, which was composed by Igor Stravinsky. 
ANSWER:  
Petrushka 
019-09-12-12116 
16. In a charge-transfer complex, the energy of a transition is proportional to the difference between the 
optical value of this quantity for the metal and the ligand. Electrons distribute themselves to equalize this 
quantity according to Sandersen, while a y-intercept of .744 appears in the equation for the Allred-Rochow 
scale of it. Common methods of measuring this quantity include the mean of the first ionization energy and 
the electron affinity. For 10 points, name this quantity which is high for fluorine and has scales named for 
Mulliken and Pauling, the tendency of an atom to pull electrons toward it in a covalent bond. 
ANSWER:  
electronegativity 
048-09-12-12117 
17. One character in this novel takes a book of poetry out of the hands of another and replaces it with a 
copy of  
Stoff und Kraft. 
 That latter character is overheard and laughed at for playing Schubert's  
Die 
Erwartung 
 on a cello. Sitnikoff introduces two characters to Madame Odintsoff. Frogs are collected for 
dissection by one character in this work, who ends up dying after cutting himself during an autopsy on a 
typhus-infected corpse. At the end of this novel, the characters Katya and Fenichka are married to Arkady 
and Kirsanoff. For 10 points, name this Russian work that features the nihilist Bazaroff and was written by 
Ivan Turgenev. 
ANSWER:  
Fathers and Sons 
 [or  
Otsy i Deti 
] 
023-09-12-12118 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  4 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. The removal of the Fort Edward dam in 1973 released contaminated sediment into this river. Once 
known as the Mauritius, this river possesses a \"Wind Gate\" formed by Storm King Mountain and 
Breakneck Ridge, and the Appalachian Trail crosses it on the Bear Mountain Bridge. Its official source is 
located on Mount Marcy at Lake Tear-of-the-Clouds while the Mohawk is a major tributary. This river 
widens at Tappan Zee where it is flanked by the Palisades. Crossed by the Holland Tunnel, for 10 points, 
identify this river that flows through Albany and New York City. 
ANSWER:  
Hudson 
 River 
020-09-12-12119 
19. In one work, this thinker wrote about watching  
Tarzan 
 in an audience full of white people. He 
borrowed the term \"lumpenproletariat\" for an essay which discusses relations between revolutionaries and 
the lower classes and the strength and weaknesses of spontaneity. He used case studies from his work in an 
Algerian hospital to inform his chapter “Colonial War and Mental Disorders.\" One work by this thinker 
features an introduction by Jean-Paul Sartre and argues in the chapter \"Concerning Violence\" that only 
through complete annihilation of colonialism can those oppressed hope to become \"new people.\" For 10 
points, name this writer of  
Black Skin, White Masks 
 and  
The Wretched of the Earth 
. 
ANSWER: Frantz  
Fanon 
024-09-12-12120 
20. This religion holds that digging nine holes surrounded by twelve furrows, filling the holes with water, 
and sprinkling the water ritually on an unclean man will exorcise evil beings. This belief system fears 
beings that can be thwarted by invocations to  
Zam Atar 
,  , and  
Apas 
, or earth, fire, and water. A set of beings 
feared by this belief system cannot distinguish between truth and falsehood, known as  
asha 
 and  
druj 
. This 
religion fears demons called Daevas, the avoidance of which is the subject of the  
Vendidad 
, which is part of 
the holy text called the  
Avesta 
. For 10 points, name this dualistic Persian religion that reveres Ahura 
Mazda. 
ANSWER:  
Zoroastrian 
ism [accept word forms; accept Ahura  
Mazda 
ism before read] 
026-09-12-12121 
21. An interpretation of one clause of this amendment was handed down in the cases  
Elk v. Wilkins 
 and  
U.S. v. Wong Kim Ark 
, which refuted one tenet of the Chinese Exclusion Act. Its fourth section discusses 
the assumption of debts by federal and state governments. This amendment was invoked by a dissenting 
judge who wrote that \"the Constitution is color-blind\" in the case  
Plessy v. Ferguson 
. This amendment 
expressly requires states to guarantee individual rights in its due process clause. For 10 points, name this 
1868 amendment that includes the equal protection clause and granted rights to former slaves. 
ANSWER:  
fourteenth 
 amendment 
032-09-12-12122 
22. While searching for the founder of the Organization of the Apocryphal Power, the protagonist of this 
novel becomes embroiled in a revolution in Ataguitania. In this novel, Professor Uzzi-Tuzii gets involved 
in a debate over whether a certain book is Cimbrian or Cimmerian, which leads the narrator to the forger 
and antagonist Ermes Marana. Lotaria seeks a device which will convert a novel into its constituent 
numbers and is the sister of the protagonist's love interest Ludmilla. It contains fragments of fictional books 
like  
Outside the Town of Malbork 
, and its plot is driven by a search for the remainders of those novels. For 
10 points, name this novel written partially in the second person that centers on \"The Reader,\" written by 
Italo Calvino. 
ANSWER:  
If on a Winter’s Night a Traveler 
 [or  
Se una notte d’inverno un viaggiatore 
] 
001-09-12-12123 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  5 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
23. Ukkonen found efficient constructions for suffix-based ones of these. Prefix ones are useful in 
lexicographic applications. One family of them uses zig and zag operations; another imposes five rules to 
maintain balance. Traversing one can be done preorder, inorder, or postorder, the last of which can be used 
to implement a depth-first search. An important special type of these is associated with a connected graph 
and can be found by using Kruskal's algorithm. In the simplest form of this organizing tool, the keys of all 
the nodes in the left subsection are less than the one at the top, and those on the right are greater - that 
applies to the binary search variety of them. For 10 points, name these connected, acyclic graphs that are 
topped by a root node which is connected by edges to branches of nodes known as leaves. 
ANSWER:  
tree 
s 
063-09-12-12124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  6 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 12 
Bonuses 
1. He founded Westminster Abbey, and his death created a power struggle between Harold Godwinson and 
William the Conqueror. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this pious son of Ethelred the Unready and last true ruler of the Wessex line. 
ANSWER:  
Edward the Confessor 
 [prompt on  
Edward 
] 
[10] Edward the Confessor had taken over from the sons of this Viking. This son of Sweyn Forkbeard ruled 
England for eighteen years after defeating Ethelred’s son Edmond Ironsides. 
ANSWER:  
Cnut 
 the Great 
[10] This son and successor of Cnut ruled for five years before dying and being replaced by his brother 
Harthacnute. 
ANSWER:  
Harold Harefoot 
 [or  
Harold I 
; prompt on  
Harold 
] 
015-09-12-12201 
2. Homogenous ones are in the same phase as the reactants, while the number of reactions they can 
facilitate before dying is the turnover number. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these substances that lower the activation energy of a reaction. 
ANSWER:  
catalyst 
[10] These catalysts named for two scientists use titanium tetrachloride derivatives and an aluminium based 
cocatalyst to polymerize alkenes. 
ANSWER:  
Ziegler-Natta 
 catalysts 
[10] This element is used as a catalyst in the Heck reaction and is used in hydrogenation as in Lindlar's 
catalyst. 
ANSWER:  
palladium 
001-09-12-12202 
3. While evading justice, this man assumed the identity of Wolfgang Gerhard and died of a stroke in 1979 
in Brazil. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this infamous doctor, whose gruesome experiments on survival under extreme conditions, 
including several studies of twins, earned him the nickname \"Angel of Death.\" 
ANSWER: Josef  
Mengele 
[10] Josef Mengele was appointed by Heinrich Himmler to be the chief doctor at Birkenau, which was one 
of the extermination camps located at this concentration camp in southern Poland. 
ANSWER:  
Auschwitz 
 [or  
Oswiecim 
] 
[10] Josef Mengele was among the Nazis that this Nazi hunter attempted to bring to justice. He participated 
in tracking down over 1,000 war criminals and founded the Jewish Documentation Center in Vienna. 
ANSWER: Simon  
Wiesenthal 
030-09-12-12203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  7 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Name some crazy stuff you might encounter if you move very quickly through a liquid, for 10 points 
each. 
[10] Look out for these entities, thin wavefronts across which the pressure, density, or both are 
discontinuous. A sure way to make one type of them is to move faster than the local speed of sound. 
ANSWER:  
shock 
s [or  
shock 
 waves] 
[10] This is boiling induced by pressure drop rather than temperature increase and is often caused by 
surfaces moving quickly through liquid. It occurs when the Euler number is high. 
ANSWER:  
cavitation 
[10] Of course, you're going to see this type of flow in which inertial effects are strongly dominant. I guess 
anything beats slug flow or creeping flow. 
ANSWER:  
turbulent 
 flow [accept word forms like  
turbulence 
] 
001-09-12-12204 
5. This president is responsible for the creation of the Interstate Highway System. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this president who won election with the promise that he would “go to Korea” and end 
American involvement there. His foreign policy was guided by his Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles. 
ANSWER: Dwight D.  
Eisenhower 
[10] In his farewell address, Eisenhower warned about the rise of this system, referring to the relationship 
between the armed forces and segments of business that plagued the current state of politics. 
ANSWER:  
Military-Industrial Complex 
[10] During Eisenhower’s administration, this man was appointed to the Supreme Court in 1955 as an 
associate justice. His namesake grandfather also served on the Court and was the only dissenting vote in the 
Plessy v. Ferguson 
 case. 
ANSWER: John Marshall  
Harlan 
 II 
052-09-12-12205 
6. Answer the following about a branch of mathematics, for 10 points each. 
[10] This kind of arithmetic, colloquially known as clock arithmetic, is the solution of congruence relations 
on versions of the natural numbers that reset to 1 after reaching a certain number. 
ANSWER:  
modular 
 arithmetic 
[10] This theorem, named for the country in which it was first formulated, states that there exist solutions to 
systems of simultaneous congruences in which the moduli are pairwise coprime. 
ANSWER: the  
Chinese remainder 
 theorem 
[10] This theorem states that if p is prime, a to the p modulo p equals a modulo p. 
ANSWER:  
Fermat's little 
 theorem [prompt on  
Fermat 
's theorem; do not accept or prompt on \"Fermat's 
last theorem\"] 
024-09-12-12206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  8 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. The speaker of this poem predicts that “they shall be one with the man in the wind and the west moon” 
and that “Faith in their hands shall snap in two, and the unicorn evils run them through.” For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this poem which forsees that “Though they go mad they shall be sane” and which repeats its 
title as the first and last line of each of its three stanzas. 
ANSWER: “ 
And Death Shall Have no Dominion 
” 
[10] The narrator of this other poem remembers when “Time held me green and dying though I sang in my 
chains like the sea” and opens when he “was young and easy under the apple boughs.” 
ANSWER: “ 
Fern Hill 
” 
[10] This Welsh poet of “And Death Shall Have no Dominion” and “Fern Hill” commanded “Rage, rage 
against the dying of the light” in his villanelle “Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night.” 
ANSWER: Dylan  
Thomas 
015-09-12-12207 
8. This figure used a pit to trap Osebo, the leopard, and then got Osebo to help further in tying himself up 
for capture. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this trickster from West African mythology who captured Osebo as part of an effort to own all 
stories. 
ANSWER: Kwaku  
Anansi 
[10] Anansi captured Osebo at the request of this sky god, the original owner of all stories. 
ANSWER:  
Nyame 
 [or  
Nyankopon 
] 
[10] Nyame also asked Anansi to capture Onini, one of these animals. In Greek mythology, Apollo slew a 
creature with this name and established the Delphic oracle in its place. 
ANSWER:  
python 
023-09-12-12208 
9. This author wrote that \"life is not a series of gig-lamps systematically arranged; life is a luminous halo\" 
in an essay defending modernist fiction. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this lover of Vita Sackville-West, who cofounded Hogarth Press and wrote the short story \"Kew 
Gardens.\" 
ANSWER: Virginia  
Woolf 
[10] Woolf used Sackville-West as the basis for this novel's title character, who writes the poem \"The Oak 
Tree\" and ages thirty-six years from 1588 to 1928, during which time she transforms from a man into a 
woman. 
ANSWER:  
Orlando 
[10] This novel by Woolf includes a brief second section called \"Time Passes,\" which describes the deaths 
of Prue and Mrs. Ramsay. It begins with James Ramsay wishing to visit the title structure on the Isle of 
Skye. 
ANSWER:  
To the Lighthouse 
052-09-12-12209 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  9 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This woman cited Greenwich Village as an example of a unique neighborhood. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this urbanist who criticized the city planning policies of people like Robert Moses in her work  
The Death and Life of Great American Cities 
. 
ANSWER: Jane  
Jacobs 
[10] Jacobs's opposition to the Lower Manhattan Expressway was joined by this pair of brothers. Paul 
co-founded Gestalt Therapy, skewered the school system in  
Growing Up Absurd 
, and collaborated with his 
brother Percival on  
Communitas 
. 
ANSWER:  
Goodman 
[10] The Jane Jacobs's book  
Cities and the Wealth of Nations 
 references the work of this economist who 
studied under Francis Hutcheson and wrote  
The Theory of Moral Sentiments 
. 
ANSWER: Adam  
Smith 
026-09-12-12210 
11. The Lamb shift is a small energy difference between two energy levels of this system. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this physical system with one proton, one electron, and no neutrons. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen 
 atom 
[10] This series describes hydrogen spectral line emissions in the visible region of the EM spectrum. They 
correspond to transitions in the n = 2 level. 
ANSWER:  
Balmer 
 series 
[10] This phenomenon results in shifts of spectral lines of the hydrogen atom. It's the coupling between the 
nucleus' electric field and the electron’s spin. 
ANSWER:  
Spin-orbit 
 interaction 
032-09-12-12211 
12. This text compares history to a wheel that states “Mutability is our tragedy, but it is also our hope.” For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this work of prison literature that discusses the presence of evil in a world created by God. The 
title character tells the author that “no man can ever truly be secure until he has been forsaken by Fortune.” 
ANSWER:  
Consolation of Philosophy 
 [or  
Consolatio Philosophiae 
] 
[10] Boethius’s  
Consolation of Philosophy 
 was influenced by this Silver Age Roman philosopher who 
tutored Nero and was forced to commit suicide for being part of the Pisonian Conspiracy. 
ANSWER: Lucius Annaeus  
Seneca 
 the Younger 
[10] Boethius’s work influenced this scholastic philosopher known as Doctor Angelicus, whose best 
known works are  
Summa Contra Gentiles 
 and  
Summa theologica 
. 
ANSWER: Saint Thomas  
Aquinas 
 [or Thomas of  
Aquin 
o] 
020-09-12-12212 
13. Murram grass, with its ability to grow on sand dunes, is one example of this type of species. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this type of species that are the first to colonize land in the process of ecological succession. 
ANSWER:  
pioneer 
 species 
[10] One example of a pioneer species is this symbiotic relationship of a fungus with an alga. 
ANSWER:  
lichen 
[10] This term describes the final stage of ecological succession in which a community can maintain 
populations of many diverse organisms. 
ANSWER:  
climax 
 community 
064-09-12-12213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  10 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. As an infant, the protagonist of this novel is discovered by G. Herrold next to a punch card marked 
\"PASS ALL FAIL ALL.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this novel, whose title character is raised by Max Spielman and attempts to save New 
Tammany College from the Quiet Riot to fulfill his destiny as a Grand Tutor. 
ANSWER:  
Giles Goat-Boy 
[10] This postmodern American novelist of  
The Sot-Weed Factor 
 wrote  
Giles Goat-Boy 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Barth 
[10]  
Giles Goat-Boy 
 refers to this figure as the Dean-o'-Flunks. In a short story by Stephen Vincent Benet, 
this figure vies with Daniel Webster for the soul of Jabez Stone. 
ANSWER: the  
devil 
 [or  
Satan 
; or clear-knowledge equivalents] 
004-09-12-12214 
15. For 10 points each, name these French composers. 
[10] This composer parodied the theme of his symphonic poem  
Danse Macabre 
 in the \"Fossils\" movement 
of his suite  
Carnival of the Animals 
. 
ANSWER: Camille  
Saint-Saëns 
[10] This student of Saint-Saëns composed the song cycle  
La bonne chanson 
 and the song \"After a Dream.\" 
In 1888, this longtime organist at the church of the Madeleine premiered his opus forty-eight Requiem, 
which ends with the movement \"In Paradisum.\" 
ANSWER: Gabriel  
Fauré 
[10] This composer with gigantic muttonchops used cyclic form in works such as his 1885  
Symphonic 
variations 
. He also composed the symphonic poems  
The Accursed Huntsman 
 and  
Les Djinns 
. 
ANSWER: César  
Franck 
004-09-12-12215 
16. There is a waterfall surrounded by lush greenery at the bottom of this painting, the left side of which 
shows a path leading to a small cross. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting of a jungle landscape that depicts the title mountain range in the background. 
ANSWER:  
The  Heart of the Andes 
[10]  
The Heart of the Andes 
 is by Frederic Edwin Church, who was a member of this school of painting 
along with Thomas Cole. This movement later spawned luminism. 
ANSWER:  
Hudson River 
 School [prompt on  
luminism 
 if the team answers early] 
[10] This Hudson River School artist depicted Thomas Cole and William Cullen Bryant in the Catskills in 
his painting  
Kindred Spirits 
. 
ANSWER: Asher Brown  
Durand 
024-09-12-12216 
17. This character rants that everywhere you go \"it's the fools that form the overwhelming majority\" in 
arguing that \"the majority is never right.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who experiences a fall from fame after his accusations against Morten Kiil. 
ANSWER:  
Thomas Stockmann 
   [accept either] 
[10] Stockmann accuses the tanneries belonging to Morten Kill of causing water pollution in this play. 
ANSWER:  
An  Enemy of the People 
 [or En  
folkefiende 
] 
[10]  
An Enemy of the People 
 is a work by this author who wrote about Hedvig and the title creature who is 
wounded in the attic in his  
The Wild Duck 
. 
ANSWER: Henrik  
Ibsen 
064-09-12-12217 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  11 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. For 10 points, name these organizations involved in trade in Europe. 
[10] This league of German merchants and trading cities dominated trade in the Baltic region starting in the 
twelfth century. 
ANSWER:  
Hanseatic 
 League [or League of  
Hansa 
] 
[10] This German customs union was founded in 1834 and lasted for about thirty years, until Prussia started 
negotiating with other countries on its own and the rest of the German states followed Prussia’s 
arrangements. 
ANSWER:  
Zollverein 
[10] This first post-World War II European economic alliance, which was founded with the 1951 Treaty of 
Paris, included Italy, France, West Germany and the Benelux countries. It attempted to provide a common 
market for the two namesake commodities. 
ANSWER:  
European Coal and Steel Community 
 [or  
ECSC 
] 
003-09-12-12218 
19. This man was killed at the battle of Ramoth Gilead by the forces of Aram. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this biblical king, the wicked husband of Jezebel, who schemed to murder Naboth and stole his 
vineyard before receiving his divine punishment. 
ANSWER:  
Ahab 
[10] Ahab controlled this mountainous strip as a vassal; along with the Ammonites, inhabitants of this 
region were excluded from congregations for opposing the invasion of Canaan. 
ANSWER:  
Moab 
[10] Jezebel was eventually killed when this charioteer seized control of Israel and killed the kings of Israel 
and Judah. He would order Jezebel thrown to her death, where she would be trampled by horses. He then 
proceeded to butcher Ahab’s family and the priests of Baal. 
ANSWER:  
Jehu 
052-09-12-12219 
20. Plans to construct an amusement park here in 2005 were scrapped after the discovery of more artifacts. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this archaeological site in Punjab, which contains the ruins of a certain Bronze Age civilization. 
It is located to the northeast of the similar city of Mohenjo-Daro. 
ANSWER:  
Harappa 
[10] Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro were both cities in this civilization which flourished around 2000 BCE. It 
was centered around its namesake river and encompassed most of modern-day Pakistan. 
ANSWER:  
Indus Valley 
 Civilization 
[10] Another ancient archaeological site is this Neolithic settlement in Turkey, which survives today as a 
gigantic mound. Figurines dedicated to female deities have been found here, as have many domestic 
buildings with murals. 
ANSWER:  
Catal Huyuk 
052-09-12-12220 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  12 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
21. One of this play's title characters repeatedly replaces the last word in \"Give us this day our daily bread\" 
in order to rhyme with a remark by his partner. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play whose third act is set on a ship bound for England, where the title characters decide not 
to destroy a fatal letter, and watch the Player and a troupe of tragedians act out mock deaths. 
ANSWER:  
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
[10] This British playwright wrote  
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
, as well as the 1993 play  
Arcadia 
 and  
The Real Inspector Hound 
. 
ANSWER: Tom  
Stoppard 
 [or Tomas  
Straussler 
] 
[10] Stoppard fictionalized the intellectual debates of Russian anarchists such as Mikhail Bakunin and 
Alexander Herzen in this trilogy, which consists of the plays  
Voyage Shipwreck 
,  , and  
Salvage 
. 
ANSWER:  
The  Coast of Utopia 
034-09-12-12221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 12     Page  13 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
