NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 TOSSUPS  
1. The title character of this book is instructed to cover his lip and forgo the bread of mourners  
after his wife dies. Part of this book describes the uselessness of the wood of the vine among the  
trees of the forest. This book describes how a man eats a scroll, only to find that it tastes like  
honey. The tradition of merkabah mysticism grew out of an image in this book, of four creatures  
each bearing the faces of a man, a lion, an eagle, and an ox. Like Revelation, this book contains  
an apocalyptic passage describing the destruction of Gog and Magog. For 10 points, name this  
Old Testament prophetic book containing many visions, such as the valley of dry bones.  
ANSWER: Book of  Ezekiel   
2. The Purgatoire River flows into this river near the John Martin Reservoir, and this river's  
namesake navigation system enters it northeast of Muskogee. The Trail of Tears Overlook is  
located along this river at Fort Smith, and this river is the location of a city that is home to the  
Phillips Oil \"Philcade\" and the John Hope Franklin Reconciliation Park. That city on this river  
was the loction of a 1921 race riot that killed 300 people, as well as Oral Roberts University, and  
is Tulsa. Another city on this river is located at the foothills of the Ouachita Mountains and is the  
location of Central High School. For 10 points, name this river that flows through the capital of  
its namesake state, Little Rock.  
ANSWER:  Arkansas  River  
3. This locale is the setting for \"The Death of Schillinger\" and several other stories narrated by  
Tadek in a book by Tadeusz Borowski. Another author divided its populace into \"the Drowned\"  
and \"the Saved\" in a book whose title translates as  If This Is a Man.  Madame Schachter sees  
visions of fire before reaching this place in another book. Theodor Adorno argued that \"to write a  
poem after [this place] is barbaric.\" A hanging boy captivates the attention of Shlomo's son in  
this place, where Eliezer loses faith and refuses to commemorate Rosh Hashanah. For 10 points,  
name this place survived by Primo Levi, a setting in  This Way for the Gas, Ladies and  
Gentlemen  and in  Night,  an autobiographical novel by Elie Wiesel.  
ANSWER:  Auschwitz -Birkenau [prompt on  concentration camp ; prompt on Nazi  death camp ;  
do not accept or prompt on \"Armory Show\"]  
4. Theodore de Bry's  Grand Voyage  engravings depict many people of this profession. Many  
members of this profession were killed in the Siglo XX (twenty) massacre. This profession was  
paid a fee called the pepena and illegal movements made by members of this profession were  
called kajcheos. Members of this profession worked to pay the  Real Situado  and the  quinto real .  
These people frequently used the patio process. Workers in this profession were given the name  
mitayos  as a result of being subjected to the  mita  system in the viceroyalty of Peru. For ten  
points, name this profession that worked in places like Huancavelica and Potosi, people who  
brought mercury and silver out of the ground.  
ANSWER:  miner s [or  mining ; accept specific types such as silver  miner s] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 TOSSUPS  
5. The consideration of a space homotopy equivalent to these things and a homotopy equivalence  
of these things homotopic to a diffeomorphism is the subject of surgery theory, which is used to  
classify them in greater than five dimensions. A smooth, compact one of these things of  
dimension n can be smoothly embedded into the real numbers with dimension two n according to  
the Whitney embedding theorem, which implies that they have a Riemannian metric. A simply- 
connected, closed, three-dimensional one is homeomorphic to a sphere according to a famous  
conjecture. These things are defined by atlases, which are a collection of coordinate charts. For  
10 points, name these locally Euclidean topological spaces whose two-dimensional form is a  
surface.  
ANSWER: topological  manifold s  
6. This man’s power was the subject of Barton Gellman’s Pulitzer winning series of  Washington  
Post  articles. He was the intended target of the 2007 Bagram Airfield bombing. This man did not  
serve in Vietnam, explaining that he “had other priorities in the ‘60s,” and he was criticized for  
giving the one-word reply “So?” to a question about declining public confidence. His one-time  
chief of staff, Lewis “Scooter” Libby, was charged with leaking CIA information. In February  
2006, this man, while quail hunting, accidentally shot Texas lawyer Harry Whittington. As  
Secretary of Defense, this one-time Halliburton CEO oversaw Operation Desert Storm. For 10  
points, name this Vice-President under George W. Bush.  
ANSWER: Richard “Dick”  Cheney   
7. According to kinetic theory, this quantity equals the thermal conductivity times two-thirds  
times mass over Boltzmann's constant, which makes it scale with the square root of mass times  
temperature. The normal stress on a control volume includes a term equal to two-thirds this  
quantity, times the divergence of velocity. The Laplacian of velocity is multiplied by a tensor  
representing this quantity in the Navier-Stokes equations. A non-zero value for this quantity  
leads to the no-slip condition in boundary layers. This quantity is the slope of a graph plotting  
shear stress against strain rate; consequentially, it decreases at increasing shear stress for dilatant  
fluids. It is in the denominator of the Reynolds number. It's constant for Newtonian fluids. For 10  
points, name this quantity measured in centipoise, which is roughly the fluid’s resistance toward  
flowing.  
ANSWER:  viscosity  [or  kinematic viscosity ; or  dynamic viscosity ]  
8. After this man criticizes Idomeneus for “always laying down the law,” he is mocked for  
having a “vile temper.” The Athenians named their 9th tribe after this hero, who gives the third  
and most convincing appeal in the embassy episode. This husband of Tecmessa names his son,  
Eurysaces, after the shield he uses protect his half-brother in battle. During a war, this brother of  
Teucer gives Hector a purple sash and receives a sword after fighting him to a draw. In a play by  
Sophocles, he is entranced by Athena and slaughters a flock of sheep believing they are his  
rivals. This man goes insane and kills himself after he loses a contest to Odysseus to obtain  
Achilles’ armor. For 10 points, name this king of Salamis who fought in the Trojan War.  
ANSWER:  Ajax  the Greater [or Telamonian  Ajax ; or Telamonian  Aias ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 TOSSUPS  
9. Before being crowned ruler, this man mythically received the gift of healing after visiting the  
Egyptian Temple of Serapis. Josephus wrote that he tested the Dead Sea’s buoyancy by throwing  
people who could not swim into it, shortly after the destruction of Jericho. As emperor, he  
appointed Tacitus’ father-in-law, Agricola, to the governorship of Britain. During this emperor’s  
reign, the mass suicide of rebels at Masada took place at the end of the Great Jewish Revolt. He  
defeated Vitellius to take the throne and his project of the Coliseum was completed by his  
successor, Titus. For 10 points, name this final ruler in the Year of the Four Emperors and  
founder of the Flavian dynasty.  
ANSWER:  Vespasian   
10. In the process of crafting a deterministic linear-time algorithm to construct these objects,  
which has a runtime proportional to the inverse Ackermann function, Bernard Chazelle invented  
the soft heap. The verification step from Boruvka's algorithm for finding these objects is  
sometimes used in other algorithms for them. Because the set of forests of a graph forms a  
graphic matroid, greedy algorithms are very effective at constructing these objects. Constructing  
one of these objects often relies on finding a light edge that crosses a cut. Two algorithms used to  
find these objects, which run in big O of edges times log of vertices, are Kruskal's algorithm and  
Prim's algorithm. For 10 points, name these acyclic subgraphs that connect all the vertices of a  
graph, with smallest edge cost.  
ANSWER:  minimum -weight  spanning trees  [or  MST ; prompt on partial answer]  
11. The protagonist of this short story has a fishing rod called Killall, which scares trout enough  
to want to jump in his pockets. Another man in this story hits rock bottom when his plowshare  
crashes on a rock and his horse starts coughing. In this story, Miser Stevens' voice is heard  
coming out of a handkerchief. A resident of Marshfield partially titles this story, which  
references a Whittier poem when one character predicts another's future, saying \"They will call  
you Ichabod.\" In this story, Judge Hathorne presides over a jury of twelve dead men, who rule in  
favor of Jabez Stone against Scratch. For 10 points, name this story in which a New Hampshire  
farmer's soul is saved by the lawyering of an American senator, by Stephen Vincent Benet.  
ANSWER: \"The  Devil and Daniel Webster \"  
12.  Contemporary philosophers of this concept often analyze the problem of supertasks. After  
the Other is met in face-to-face encounter, Levinas argued that people grasp this idea in a book  
contrasting it with Totality. Book III of Aristotle's  Physics  argued that this concept's \"actual\"  
form can never arise from its \"potential\" form. For Kant, the failure of reason to comprehend this  
idea produces the sublime. Giordano Bruno was burned in part because his non-Copernican  
cosmology featured a set of worlds with this property. Spinoza held that the one substance of  
God had a set of attributes with this property. Aristotle wrote that time has this property, but that  
the space of the universe does not. For 10 points, identify this property which names an  
argumentative \"regress\" where no single premise can be found to begin an argument.  
ANSWER: the  infinite  [or  infinity ; accept more specific answers such as \" infinite  time\" or  
\" infinite ly long\" or \" infinite ly many worlds\"] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 TOSSUPS  
13. A composer born in this modern-day country preferred the name  Fantaisies symphoniques  
for his sixth symphony, and produced a double concerto for two string orchestras, pianos, and  
timpani. A tone poem that depicts the sounding of a hunting horn signaling for the slaughter of  
men by warrior women was composed by another denizen of this country, who included a high,  
sustained harmonic E played by the first violin to signify his tinnitus in his string quartet  From  
My Life.  Another of its composers produced a popular seventh  Humoresque,  and drew on Native  
American and African-American music for his  New World Symphony.  For 10 points, name this  
home country of Bohuslav Martinu, Bedrich Smetana, and Antonin Dvorak.  
ANSWER:  Czech Republic  [or  Ceska Republika ]  
14. During a rainstorm, this film's protagonist tails an old man to a church serving lunch. One  
character in this film says, \"There's a cure for everything except death,\" in a restaurant scene that  
constantly cuts to a richer family. In this film, a set of dowry bedsheets is taken to a pawn shop  
and added to a mountain of bedding so that its protagonist can get a job posting advertising bills.  
In its final scene, two characters walk off together, crying, into a crowd; shortly before, the father  
had been mobbed by policemen after jumping on an unattended object, becoming one of the title  
people. For 10 points, name this Vittorio de Sica film in which Bruno helps his father Antonio  
recover a stolen vehicle, a masterpiece of neorealism.  
ANSWER:  The  Bicycle Thief    [or  Bicycle Thieves ; or  Ladri di Biciclette ]  
15. In advance of his \"sour period,\" this painter cast a nude against a surprisingly abstract  
background in his  Torso of a Woman in Sunlight.  This painter depicted a three-year-old boy with  
uncut hair who is dressed identically to his sister in a portrait commissioned by his benefactor  
Mademoiselle Charpentier. A seated man picks his teeth and a dancing couple occupies the left  
of a painting by this man that is set on a Sunday afternoon in Montmarte's \"pancake mill.\" He  
abandoned Impressionism soon after painting his wife Aline Charigot playing with a dog and his  
friend Gustave Caillebotte wearing a straw hat on a balcony along the Seine River. For 10 points,  
name this painter of  Bal du Moulin de la Galette  and  Luncheon of the Boating Party.   
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste  Renoir   
16. This poem imagines people saying “I’ll concentrate more on my work” before asking “Who  
can speak for the dumb?” The speaker of this poem states that he is made of “Eros and dust.\"  
This poem claims that “accurate scholarship” can determine “what huge imago made a  
psychopathic God,\" and it mentions “what mad Nijinsky wrote about Diaghilev.” The author of  
this poem wishes to \"show an affirming flame,\" and he later came to dislike its line “We must  
love one another or die.” For 10 points, name this poem beginning, “I sit in one of the dives on  
Fifty-second Street, uncertain and afraid,” which was written by W. H. Auden and titled for the  
first day of World War II.  
ANSWER: “ September 1, 1939 ” 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 TOSSUPS  
17. An ethnography about part of this present-day country used the fall of Bre-X to illustrate  
\"spectacular accumulation\" and the formation of \"zones of awkward engagement.\" This present- 
day country, in which Anna Tsing's  Friction  is set, also was the subject of a book that describes  
the  abangan santri ,  , and  priyayi  streams of religion. The term \"theatre state\" was coined to  
describe the negara government of a place in this country, whose character was explored in a  
photographic analysis by Margaret Mead and Gregory Bateson. A study of a culture from this  
country borrows Jeremy Bentham's term for a game with stakes too high to be rational. The  
cockfight on one of its islands is the subject of \"Deep Play.\" For 10 points, name this subject of  
Clifford Geertz's  The Religion of Java.   
ANSWER: Republic of  Indonesia   
18. Fibrosis or infiltration of this tissue causes the appearance of dacrocytes, or teardrop cells.  
Azathioprine and parvovirus B19 can cause a dangerous suppression of this tissue. One gigantic  
type of cell found in this tissue undergoes repeated endoreplication to become 32-ploid before  
fragmenting. Mesenchymal stem cells are found in this tissue, and it is commonly collected via  
aspiration at the iliac crest, though that doesn’t preserve its architecture. In mice, this tissue is  
commonly ablated using ionizing radiation. Transplantation of this tissue can sometimes cause a  
beneficial \"graft-versus-tumor\" phenomenon, and this tissue comes in red and yellow types. For  
10 points, name this tissue located in the epiphysis, which is the source of lymphocytes and red  
blood cells.  
ANSWER: bone  marrow   
19. A peasant supporting this group supposedly fed a cow the last remaining grain in his city to  
trick a besieging force into thinking that the city still had a huge amount of food left. This group  
established a commune that was derisively nicknamed “the straw city” for its thatched roofs.  
Amos Cassioli painted some great moments in this group’s history, including its foundation by  
the Oath of Pontida. The mythical Alberto da Guissano led a “Company of Death” that defended  
this group’s battle standard in an engagement that led one of its enemies to strip Henry the Lion  
of his lands for refusing to support him. Formed in resistance to the Diet of Roncaglia, this  
alliance signed the Peace of Constance after defeating its greatest enemy at the Battle of  
Legnano. For 10 points, name this league including Milan and Venice that resisted Frederick  
Barbarossa’s attempts to control northern Italy.  
ANSWER:  Lombard  League [or Lega  Lombarda ]  
20. This character is laughed at after trying to express “mankind’s essential illness” by asking,  
“What’s the dirtiest thing there is?” After helping some children pick fruit, this character admires  
the butterflies and flowers in a secluded clearing. This character faints after imagining that he is  
“in the mouth” of a figure who calls him a “poor, misguided boy.” This character is killed amid  
shouts of “Cut his throat! Spill his blood!” after bringing news about a dead parachutist, and his  
body is surrounded by glowing fish as it floats out of the lagoon. For 10 points, name this Christ- 
like boy who is murdered by Jack’s followers in William Golding's  Lord of the Flies.   
ANSWER:  Simon 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 TOSSUPS  
21. Solutions to this equation for a periodic system can be combined according Bloch's theorem.  
One method of solving this equation for an N-body system is to select a trial function and then  
use the variational principle in order to iterate the choice. Another method to solve this equation  
decomposes a Hamiltonian into a zeroth-order part and adds a quantity V, which is the  
perturbation theory named for Rayleigh and this equation's namesake. Solvable with the Hartree- 
Fock method, it can be written as E psi equals H psi in its time-independent formulation, and  
solving this equation for the hydrogen atom gives orbitals. For 10 points, name this fundamental  
equation of quantum physics, used to define the wavefunction, that is named for a German.  
ANSWER:  Schroedinger  equation  
22. A vice-presidential candidate from this party accused a man of having \"sold his birthright.\"  
That Oregonian, a member of this party, was Joseph Lane. The Indiana residence of another  
member of this party, Jesse D. Bright, was converted to a hospital after he was deemed  
treasonous. Another member of this party was dubbed \"the worst doughface of them all,\" though  
lesser doughfaces from this party included Charles Atherton, the author of the \"gag rule.\"  
William Yancey led several \"Fire-Eaters\" belonging to this party who convened in Richmond  
and nominated William C. Breckinridge as president, dissatisfied with the \"Little Giant\" who  
promulgated the Freeport Doctrine. For 10 points, name this fragmented party which lost the  
1860 election to Abraham Lincoln.  
ANSWER:  Democratic  Party [or  Democrat s; accept  Southern Democrats  and  Northern  
Democrats ]  
23. In a play set in this country, a man continually recites a poem beginning, \"How calmly does  
the olive branch observe the sky begin to blanch.\" In that play, Wolfgang, Hilda, and the  
Fahrenkopfs are Germans in this country who delight in listening to Nazi propaganda songs. In  
this country, Maxine Faulk runs a cheap hotel, and the defrocked Reverend T. Lawrence  
Shannon works as a tour guide. It's not the United States, but John Grady Cole and Rawlins find  
work at a ranch here in a Cormac McCarthy novel. For 10 points, name this country, the setting  
of Tennessee Williams' play  The Night of the Iguana  and a setting of  All the Pretty Horses,  in  
which cowboys journey here from Texas.  
ANSWER:  Mexico  [or the  United Mexican States ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 BONUSES  
1. Name these celebrities who entertained troops during the Vietnam War, for 10 points each.  
[10] This ultra-conservative actor and early MPAA president directed  The Green Berets  to drum  
up support for the Vietnam War. He visited American troops before the conflict escalated.  
ANSWER: John  Wayne  [or Marion Mitchell  Morrison ; or Marion Robert  Morrison ]  
[10] This other, more famous entertainer who went on tour in Vietnam was known for his 57  
tours over 50 years for the United Service Organizations. He was unpopular, since he was pro- 
war when anti-war sentiment was high.  
ANSWER: Bob  Hope  [or Leslie Townes  Hope ]  
[10] This black entertainer made a 1972 tour to Vietnam with the USO, but he's best known for  
financing the Civil Rights Movement, having one eye, and converting to Judaism.  
ANSWER: Sammy  Davis  Jr. [or Samuel George  Davis , Jr.]  
2. According to an old joke, a kid asks an old man how to get to this place, to which the man  
replies \"Practice!\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this prestigious classical music venue in Manhattan that was established by a steel  
mogul.  
ANSWER:  Carnegie Hall   
[10] Carnegie Hall was where Daniel Barenboim performed this composer's  Interventions  for his  
hundredth birthday party. This American composer used a chiasmatic structure for the seven  
movements of his  Double Concerto  for harpsichord, piano, and two chamber orchestras.  
ANSWER: Elliott  Carter   
[10] This Italian-born conductor gave a series of concerts at Carnegie Hall as director of the  
NBC Symphony Orchestra, in which capacity he premiered Barber's  Adagio for Strings.  Earlier,  
while conducting Puccini's  Turandot,  he said, \"Here the opera ends, because at this point the  
maestro died.\"  
ANSWER: Arturo  Toscanini   
3. Two men climb trees to get a better view in this building's  Christ Entering Jerusalem.  For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this Paduan building that contains a famous 1305 fresco of  The Lamentation  with  
angels flying around wildly.  
ANSWER:  Arena Chapel  [or  Scrovegni Chapel ; or  Cappella degli Scrovegni ]  
[10] The Arena Chapel frescoes were painted by this Florentine, who, alongside his teacher  
Cimabue, is counted among the first artists of the Renaissance.  
ANSWER:  Giotto  di Bondone  
[10] Vasari related that, later in his life, Giotto demonstrated his skill to the Pope by performing  
this action with red paint.  
ANSWER: drawing a  perfect circle  [prompt on drawing a  circle ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 BONUSES  
4. After this action occurs, Cassius wonders if \"the persuasion of his augurers\" will persuade  
Caesar not to attend the Capitol. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this famous anachronism that appears in Act 2, Scene 1, of  Julius Caesar.  It serves to  
interrupt a character's thoughts about assassinating the title character.  
ANSWER: a  clock strikes  [or obvious equivalents]  
[10] After the clock strikes, this character says \"count the clock.\" Caesar famously asks \"et tu?\"  
to this man as he is stabbed by him.  
ANSWER: Marcus Junius  Brutus   
[10] This name in the play is shared by both a conspirator and by an innocent poet. Unluckily for  
the poet, having this name results in him getting torn apart by a mob.  
ANSWER:  Cinna   
5. These structures are essentially rings whose multiplicative operation has inverses for all non- 
zero values. For 10 points each;  
[10] Name these constructs from abstract algebra, which satisfy the group relations for both  
addition and multiplication. Finite ones have an order equal to a power of a prime.  
ANSWER:  field s  
[10] These numbers form the only Archimedean complete, totally ordered field. A field  
extension of these numbers created by adjoining the square root of negative one creates the  
complex numbers.  
ANSWER:  real  number  
[10] This mathematician names a \"little theorem\" which states that every finite domain is a field.  
ANSWER: Joseph  Wedderburn   
6. Teenager Peter Fechter was killed while trying to accomplish this action. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this action which Fechter failed to do, prompting a media incident in which Fechter  
bled to death for an hour while soldiers from two different countries could only watch.  
ANSWER:  crossing the Berlin Wall  [or  crossing from East Germany to West Germany ; or  
anything to indicate an illegal crossing out of East Germany; prompt on  defection ]  
[10] Fecther's death occurred at Checkpoint C, the best known crossing point of the Berlin Wall,  
which the Western Allies referred to using this alliterative first name.  
ANSWER:  Charlie   
[10] The 1968 film  The Wicked Dreams of Paula Schultz  depicts an East German woman who  
crosses the Berlin Wall using this method. In the real world, Sergey Bubka is generally  
considered the greatest of all time at this activity.  
ANSWER:  pole vault ing 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 BONUSES  
7. This event will be preceded by the Fimbulwinter and take place on the Vigrid Plain. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this event, at which the Norse gods will face off against Surt, Loki, and the monsters  
under their control. It is the end of the world in Norse mythology.  
ANSWER:  Ragnarok  [or the  twilight of the gods ]  
[10] At Ragnarok, Surtr will kill Freyr because the latter gave up his magic sword to this servant  
so that this man would woo Gerd.  
ANSWER:  Skirnir   
[10] This servant and confidante of Frigg is, for unknown reasons, the third of three deities that  
Baldr sends gifts from Hel. In the Merseburg Incantation, she is Frigg's sister who helps her heal  
a horse.  
ANSWER:  Fulla   
8. Name some unusual phenomenon that may or may not be explained by the periodic table, for  
10 points each.  
[10] This effect is the reason why the most common oxidation states for thallium and lead are  
plus one and plus two respectively, two lower than the rest of their families. No theory  
explaining this effect has been fully accepted.  
ANSWER:  inert pair  effect  
[10] Atomic radius increases when going down and to the left on the table. Pairs of atoms that lie  
one below and one to the right of each other tend to share similar qualities, and are said to have  
this relationship.  
ANSWER:  diagonal  relationship [accept anything mentioning  diagonal ]  
[10] Halogens have a high electron affinity because they like to gain an extra electron due to this  
rule, which states elements prefer having the namesake number of electrons in their outermost  
valence shell.  
ANSWER:  octet  rule  
9. Answer the following about the geography of Antarctica, for 10 points each.  
[10] This largest ice shelf of Antarctica is named for the British explorer who discovered it.  
ANSWER:  Ross  Ice Shelf  
[10] This district is divided into areas such as Sabrina Land and Knox Land. Bordering on Adélie  
Land, it is claimed by Australia.  
ANSWER:  Wilkes  Land  
[10] This mountain, which is part of the Ellsworth mountains, is the highest mountain in  
Antarctica.  
ANSWER:  Vinson  Massif 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 BONUSES  
10. Answer these questions about the military tactics at the 1415 Battle of Agincourt, for 10  
points each.  
[10] At Agincourt, the superior range of this English weapon helped Henry V's troops defeat  
Charles d'Albret. It was usually slightly taller than a grown man.  
ANSWER:  longbow s [prompt on \"bow\", etc.]  
[10] This segment of the English operation was attacked in the only successful French assault of  
the battle, commanded by Ysembart d'Azincourt. Upon hearing that this area had been attacked,  
Henry V executed the French prisoners in his care.  
ANSWER: the English  baggage train  [or the English  supply  caravan; accept any answer  
indicating the part of the English encampment where supplies are stored; prompt on \"camp\"]  
[10] The English set up these devices at an angle to ward off charges from French cavalry.  
ANSWER: pointed wooden  stake s [or  paling s; or  fence s; do not accept or prompt on \"spears,\"  
\"lances,\" or any type of polearm weapon]  
11. An alternate version of this law states that stress is equal to Young's modulus times strain.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this law, usually written as F equals negative k x, that is often used to describe the  
restoring force in springs.  
ANSWER:  Hooke 's Law  
[10] Integrating the restoring force over the displacement gives this quantity for a spring as one- 
half k times the square of the displacement.  
ANSWER: elastic  potential energy  [prompt on  energy ; do not accept \"kinetic energy\" or other  
wrong answers]  
[10] Hooke's Law is only valid below the yield point on a stress-strain diagram; above the  
ultimate strength on a stress-strain diagram, ductile materials experience this phenomenon before  
they eventually fracture. Below the ultimate strength, strain hardening occurs.  
ANSWER:  necking   
12. The title structure is commissioned by the Ottoman Grand Vizier, who was kidnapped as a  
ten-year-old Christian boy from the same area. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this novel by Yugoslav author Ivo Andric, whose characters include the suicidal bride  
Fata. It spans four centuries of history for the town of Visegrad.  
ANSWER:  The  Bridge on the Drina   
[10] A mysterious stone mason of this ethnicity is said to haunt the bridge on the Drina after he  
died building it. Meursault shoots a man of this ethnicity on the beach in Camus's  The Stranger.   
ANSWER: an  Arab   
[10] In  The Bridge on the Drina,  Milan Glasicanin spends most of his time on this activity. In a  
Dostoevsky novella, Alexey Ivanovich does this activity in the fictional town of Roulettenberg.  
ANSWER:  gambling  [or obvious equivalents] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 BONUSES  
13. This sculptor produced a surprisingly erotic rendition of Genesis 6:2 in his marble group  The  
Sons of God Saw the Daughters of Men That They Were Fair.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this New England sculptor who commemorated the Battles of Lexington and Concord  
with  The Minute Man,  and who created a giant 1920 statue of a seated President.  
ANSWER: Daniel Chester  French   
[10] This is the aforementioned President, who sits inside a Greek Doric temple next to a giant  
Reflecting Pool in his monument on the National Mall.  
ANSWER: Abraham  Lincoln   
[10] French also produced  Alma Mater,  a seated statue of Athena with outstretched arms and an  
owl hidden underneath her cloak. That statue is situated on the steps leading to Low Memorial  
Library on the campus of this university.  
ANSWER:  Columbia  University in the City of New York  
14. These two countries recently entered a territorial dispute when one of then moved the Ocean  
Oil 981 platform towards the other's territory. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these two countries that previously fought a battle over the Paracel Islands.  
ANSWER: People's Republic of  China  and  Vietnam  [either order]  
[10] China is currently undergoing a dispute over these uninhabited islands with Japan. In 2013,  
China set up an air defense zone around these islands.  
ANSWER:  Senkaku  Islands [or  Diaoyu  Islands; or  Pinnacle  Islands; or  Diaoyutai  Islands]  
[10] The Spratleys and the Paracels are within this line of demarcation used by China to note its  
territories in the South China Sea. It's been criticized for flouting the UN Convention of the Laws  
of the Sea.  
ANSWER:  nine-dotted line  [or  U-shape line  or  nine-dash map  or  Nine-segment line  of the  
South China Sea or  cow's tongue line  or  nanhai jiuduan xian  or  Duong luoi bo ]  
15. Robert Parker completed the unfinished last novel featuring this character,  Poodle Springs.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this detective who first appeared in  The Big Sleep  and is the most famous character of  
Raymond Chandler.  
ANSWER:  Philip  Marlowe [or Philip  Marlowe ]  
[10] This 1944 Chandler essay, which also titles a short story collection, argues for realistic  
mysteries and severely critiques the works of A. A. Milne and other English authors.  
ANSWER: “The  Simple Art of Murder ”  
[10] Chandler praised Dashiell Hammett, whose most famous novel describes Sam Spade’s quest  
for a falcon statue created on this island.  
ANSWER:  Malta  [prompt on  Maltese ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 BONUSES  
16. A man elbows you out of the way while you are entering a convenience store, which makes  
you think he is rude. For 10 points each:  
[10] Since the man is actually a paramedic trying to save a person's life inside, you have just  
shown a good example of this psychological phenomenon, which makes you think a person's  
internal disposition was the cause of their behavior rather than the situation.  
ANSWER:  fundamental attribution error  [or  FAE ]  
[10] This related phenomenon is the belief that if a bad thing happens to a person, then that  
person must be intrinsically bad, and if a good thing happens to a person, then that person must  
be intrinsically good.  
ANSWER:  just-world  phenomenon [or anything mentioning  just-world ]  
[10] The just-world phenomenon is an example of these errors in information processing, which  
also include the halo effect and the confirmation type.  
ANSWER: cognitive  bias   
17. In this play, Colonel Redfern comes by a Midlands apartment to take his daughter Alison  
away before she loses her baby. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this British play in which Alison returns to her lower-class husband Jimmy Porter,  
despite the attempts of Helena to wreck their marriage.  
ANSWER:  Look Back in Anger   
[10] John Osborne was among these authors, who took an honest look at the discontentment and  
socioeconomic issues in post-World War II Britain.  
ANSWER:  Angry Young Men  [or  kitchen sink  playwrights; or  kitchen sink  realism]  
[10] Another so-called \"angry young man,\" Alan Sillitoe, wrote this short story about Smith, a  
poor boy who refuses to win a footrace for his juvenile detention center despite his talent.  
ANSWER: \"The  Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner \"  
18. These events usually take place at shamashanas, and water from the Ganges River is often  
given to those undergoing this event. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these events, central to Antyesti. Traditionally,  sati  occurred during these events in  
Hindu society.  
ANSWER: Hindu  funeral s [or Hindu  cremation s; or equivalents]  
[10] Deceased Hindu men are often anointed with this substance, or vibuti, before cremation.  
Catholics anoint their foreheads with this substance on the first day of Lent.  
ANSWER:  ash es  
[10] The Purana named for this deity in Hindu myth gives the most information about funeral  
rites. This son of Vinata and Kashyapa is the sworn enemy of the  nagas , his brothers.  
ANSWER:  Garuda 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 16 BONUSES  
19. This man was variously known as the \"People's William\" or as \"G.O.M.,\" which stood for  
either \"Grand Old Man\" or \"God's Only Mistake.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this politician who served four times apiece as Chancellor of the Exchequer and  
Prime Minister, the archrival of Benjamin Disraeli.  
ANSWER: William Ewart  Gladstone   
[10] Gladstone won reelection in 1880 after excoriating Disraeli in a series of foreign policy  
speeches in this successful political campaign, named for the Scottish district where Gladstone  
stood as MP.  
ANSWER:  Midlothian  Campaign  
[10] Matthew Arnold quipped that \"Gladstone influences all round him but\" this man, who  
influences Gladstone. This Catholic author of a projected \"History of Liberty\" is best known for  
his maxim \"Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely.\"  
ANSWER: Lord  Acton  [or John Emerich Edward Dalberg-Acton, 1st Baron  Acton ; or Sir John  
Dalberg-  Acton , 8th Bt]  
20. A species of these animals can suffer from parasitism from Varroa mites, and they can also  
suffer from Nosema disease. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these insects of the clade  Anthophila , which live in hives and sometimes produce  
honey.  
ANSWER:  bee s  
[10] Bees communicate the location of food via this behavior, which was elucidated by Karl von  
Frisch.  
ANSWER:  waggle dance  [prompt on \"dance\"]  
[10] So-called \"cuckoo\" bees practice this form of parasitism, in which the parasite steals food  
from its target.  
ANSWER:  klepto parasitism  
21. These compounds are produced from the reaction of alkylaluminum with titanium tri or  
tetrachloride. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these catalysts that can link up terminal alkenes such as propylene, and confer  
tacticity on the product.  
ANSWER:  Ziegler -Natta catalysts  
[10] Ziegler-Natta catalysts catalyze the production of these kinds of compounds, which consist  
of repeating units and are made by step-growth and chain-growth mechanisms. They typically  
constitute plastics.  
ANSWER:  polymer s  
[10] Polyacetylenes, polypyrroles, and polyanilines and their copolymers often have this  
property, which have a bunch of contiguous Pz orbitals with delocalized electrons that are doped  
by oxidation.  
ANSWER:  conductive  polymer [or word forms; accept things like  they conduct  electricity] 
