NASAT 2012 
Round 11 
Tossups 
1. This man dove into a lake to find a red ring for a young girl, but instantly became an old man after 
stepping out. He tricked a giant into thinking he had super-strong teeth by eating a normal griddle cake 
while the giant struggled on one with irons in it. Water poured from this man's hands had the power to heal 
wounds, but he let it slip through his fingers rather than heal his rival in love, Diarmuid. Credited with 
creating the Giant's Causeway, he also defeated the fire-breathing Aillen and gained the respect of his 
enemy, Goll mac Morna. While a student of Finegas, he accidentally gained the ability to receive 
knowledge by sucking his thumb. For 10 points, name this Irish hero who ate part of the Salmon of 
Wisdom. 
ANSWER:  
Fionn 
 mac Cumhaill [or  
Finn 
 MacCool] 
140-12-59-11102 
2. Florian Geyer's Black Company was a unit in this conflict. One leader in this conflict lost his hand at the 
earlier siege of Landshut, which was replaced with an iron hand. The Swabian League was a force that 
helped end this conflict. This conflict's decisive battle occurred at the Battle of Frankenhausen. Goethe 
wrote about Götz von Berlichingen's role in this conflict. The Twelve Articles were published by one side 
in this conflict, which was led in part by Thomas Müntzer. \"Against the Murdering, Thieving Horde\" was a 
tract that Martin Luther wrote condemning this event. For 10 points, name this conflict that occurred from 
1524 to 1525 in Germany and involved an uprising of lower class individuals. 
ANSWER:  
Peasants' War 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"Peasants' Revolt\"] 
030-12-59-11103 
3. This politician is advised by the \"Girls Camp\" circle and once joked about seeing her predecessor 
\"finally strung up\" upon the unveiling of that opponent's official portrait. She agreed to establish a 
minimum wage in order to maintain a former coalition with the Social Democrats, but now rules in 
conjunction with Guido Westerwelle's Free Democrats. This chemist called for the resignation of her 
mentor after he was caught in a slush fund scandal. She more recently opposed the issuing of \"eurobonds\" 
as well as the EU bailout of Greece. She become the first person raised in the formerly Communist part of 
her country to attain the chancellorship. For 10 points, name this current head of government of Germany. 
ANSWER: Angela  
Merkel 
105-12-59-11104 
4. In  
The Mosquito Coast, 
 Allie Fox tries to invent a machine to make this substance in the jungles of 
Honduras. In a novel, a chained giant with a copper ring through his nose opens a chest containing this 
substance, which the founder of a town declares is \"the great invention of our time.\" Georgia native Sally 
Happer decides not to marry Harry Bellamy while in this kind of \"Palace,\" and Black Panther Eldridge 
Cleaver wrote an essay collection called \"Soul on\" this substance. At the beginning of  
One Hundred Years 
of Solitude, 
 Colonel Aureliano Buendia recalls his father taking him to discover this substance. For 10 
points, name this substance, whose \"nine\" variant features prominently in  
Cat's Cradle. 
ANSWER:  
ice 
 [prompt on  
water 
] 
080-12-59-11105 
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  1 of 11 
5. The ladder operators on the spherical harmonics can be constructed from the operators for this quantity’s 
components. Those components do not commute with each other, but do commute with this quantity’s 
square. The subscript in a term symbol gives the total amount of this quantity. The effective potential is 
equal to a term proportional to this quantity squared plus potential energy. Kepler’s second law is 
equivalent to the conservation of this quantity. In quantum physics, this quantity’s intrinsic type is known 
as spin. The time derivative of this quantity is torque. For 10 points, name this quantity often calculated as 
“r cross p,” a conserved quantity that measures an object’s rotation. 
ANSWER:  
angular momentum 
 [do not accept or prompt on “momentum”] 
132-12-59-11106 
6. This man collaborated with Gambian kora player Foday Musa Suso on  
Jazz Africa 
. He briefly took the 
Swahili name \"Mwandishi,\" which sometimes refers to a set of three albums that also includes  
Crossings 
and  
Sextant 
. This man's quintet V.S.O.P. reunited him with Ron Carter, Tony Williams, and Wayne 
Shorter, with Freddie Hubbard filling in for a by-then deceased Miles Davis. He won an Academy Award 
for his score to  
'Round Midnight 
 and also wrote the score for  
Blow-Up 
. His solo debut album,  
Takin' Off 
, 
features the song \"Watermelon Man.\" For 10 points, name this keyboard player equally adept at post-bop 
and jazz fusion styles, whose funk-inspired 1973 album  
Headhunters 
 became the best-selling jazz album of 
all time. 
ANSWER: Herbert Jeffrey  
Hancock 
 [or Herbie  
Hancock 
] 
003-12-59-11107 
7. Jackson and Cheetham attempted to test this theory and Peter Williamson controversially claimed to find 
evidence for this in Lake Turkana. A mathematical toy model of this theory and its destructive counterpart 
replaces the the lowest value in the system and the neighbors of the lowest value with random values. That 
toy model of this theory was proposed by Bak and Sneppen. This theory downplays the role of anagenesis. 
The unofficial motto of this theory is \"stasis is data.\" This theory built upon Ernst Mayr’s ideas about the 
importance of peripatric modes. This theory was first published by Niles Eldredge and Stephen Jay Gould. 
For 10 points, name this theory that states that evolution happens in periodic bursts. 
ANSWER:  
punctuated equilibrium 
127-12-59-11108 
8. This artist produced  
Man With a Cloth Cap 
 and a portrait of a Dominican monk in his series of 9 
portraits of his uncle Dominique wearing different costumes. He enlisted farm hands from his family estate, 
Jas de Bouffan, to model for a painting in which four pipes hang on the wall behind three men seated 
around a desk. In a letter, this artist declared that he treated nature \"by the cylinder, the sphere, the cone.\" 
He created a series of paintings from such vantage points as Bellevue and L’Estaque, all of which show 
rolling farmland leading up to the title landmark. For 10 points, name this \"father of modern art,\" who 
created  
The Card Players 
 and the  
Mont Sainte-Victoire 
 series. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Cézanne 
020-12-59-11109 
9. This man introduced covered arcades called \"five-foot ways\" in a Town Plan named for his engineer, 
Philip Jackson. He served as the first president of the Zoological Society of London and helped found the 
London Zoo. After frustrating negotiations with Sultan Abdul Rahman, this man replaced him with his 
more amenable brother, Hussein. This man discovered the monument Borobudur and ended the slave trade 
while serving as Governor of Java, which he gave back to the Dutch. After negotiations with Johor, this 
man established a city on the bottom of the Malay Peninsula. For 10 points, name this founder of 
Singapore. 
ANSWER: Thomas Stamford  
Raffles 
080-12-59-11110 
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  2 of 11 
10. The title character of  
Ubu Roi 
 absurdly sails past this structure while fleeing Poland at the end of the 
play. The crew of a coal ship named for this structure, which is sailing from Baltimore to Seattle around 
Cape Horn, mutinies in a Jack London novel. In a town named for this building, Adrienne Rosentand is 
jilted at the altar and Morten de Coninck returns from hell to see his sister Eliza. In this building, a man 
unknowingly avoids death by being seen praying, and a “wretched, rash, intruding fool” is stabbed through 
an arras. This namesake of an Isak Dinesen short story from  
Seven Gothic Tales 
 is the place where a 
swordfight with a poisoned blade leads to the death of Laertes. For 10 points, name this fortress in 
Denmark where  
Hamlet 
 is set. 
ANSWER:  
Elsinore 
 Castle 
019-12-59-11111 
11. This man became angry after hearing his brother request to marry Abishag the Shunammite. He then 
secured the throne by executing his scheming brother Adonijah. This man sent a message to king Hiram, 
saying that no one was “skilled in felling timber as the Sidonians.” As king, he killed his father’s general, 
Joab, and he was succeeded by his incompetent son, Rehoboam. This ruler answered some “hard 
questions” from the Queen of Sheba and used cedar from Lebanon to construct the temple in Jerusalem. In 
one story, this son of Bathsheba makes a wise judgment by threatening to cut a baby in half. For 10 points, 
name this successor to David as king of Israel, who was noted for his wisdom. 
ANSWER:  
Solomon 
052-12-59-11112 
12. In one battle from this campaign, invading forces set up catapults on an eastern summit to besiege the 
legendary Rock of Aornus. The return from this campaign involved a costly march through the Gedrosian 
Desert. This campaign, which resulted in the development of the Gandhara style of art, ended after the 
invading army mutinied and refused to cross the Beas River. In the most famous battle from this campaign, 
the winning side used pikes to drive war elephants amok among their own forces, leading to the defeat of 
King Porus. The climax of this campaign came at the Battle of the Hydaspes River. For 10 points, name 
this offensive into an Asian subcontinent by a Macedonian king. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander 
 the Great's  
invasion of India 
 [or  
Alexander 
 the Great's  
invasion of Pakistan 
; or 
equivalent answers; do not accept \"Alexander the Great's conquest of India\"] 
080-12-59-11113 
13. This city hosts the amusement park \"Hell's Street\" and is decorated with exclusive pavilions called  
casetas 
 during its \"April Fair.\" A few miles outside of this city, tourists can visit the Roman ruins at Italica. 
A dodecagonal watch tower called the \"Torre del Oro\" overlooks this city. This city's cathedral houses the 
Tomb of Christopher Columbus and is the largest Gothic cathedral in Europe. This city is home to a 
minaret converted into a belltower now called \"La Giralda,\" as well as the Alcazar Palace of Pedro the 
Cruel. It is located along the Guadalquivir River. For 10 points, name this capital of Spain's Andalusia 
region. 
ANSWER:  
Seville 
, Spain [or  
Sevilla 
] 
080-12-59-11114 
14. One of this author’s works describes a discussion of the problem of how to cook a turbot too large for 
any pan. Another of this author’s works claims that men are crueler than animals and describes a riot in 
Egypt in which a man was torn to pieces and eaten as evidence. Samuel Johnson adapted one of this man’s 
works as \"The Vanity of Human Wishes.\" Speaking through his friend Umbricius, this man wrote that 
Rome is a place where “no decent Roman” belongs. For 10 points, the phrases “bread and circuses” and 
“who will guard the guards themselves” were coined by what Roman author of the  
Satires 
? 
ANSWER:  
Juvenal 
 [or Decimus Junius  
Juvenal 
is] 
030-12-59-11115 
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  3 of 11 
15. This man put forth two models of marriage exchange in one of his works, which also proposed alliance 
theory. This man created a binary distinction that differentiates objects based on the degree of socialization 
they have experienced from their natural state. This anthropologist suggested that totemism was 
meaningless in his most famous work, for which he studied Aboriginal tribes. In that work, this author of  
The Elementary Structure of Kinship 
 differentiated between “engineers” and “bricoleurs”. This man 
included volumes called  
The Origin of Table Manners 
 and  
The Raw and the Cooked 
 in  
Mythologiques 
. For 
10 points, name this author of  
The Savage Mind 
, a structural anthropologist from France. 
ANSWER: Claude  
Levi-Strauss 
117-12-59-11116 
16. Peter Pin-Shan Chen wrote an influential paper on the entity-relationship model of these constructs. 
Integrity, distribution independence, and the nonsubversion rule are part of a set of \"12 Rules\" for these 
constructs, created by Edgar F. Codd. One with no repeating elements or groups of elements satisfies their 
first normal form. A hash join is a popular algorithm used with these constructs. Links between subunits of 
these constructs can be created by using foreign keys. A popular language used with these constructs is 
SQL. Records are stored in rows in these constructs, which are found in tables. For 10 points, identify these 
constructs used to organize data. 
ANSWER: relational  
database 
s 
066-12-59-11117 
17. This composer exclaimed \"What a pity!\" after the intended soloist of his  
Violin Concerto 
 said “no” 
when asked if he could handle the E to top A chord that opened each movement. A lyrical tenor solo sings 
from the Song of Songs in a piece intended to be played at St. Mark’s Basilica. This composer of  
Canticum 
Sacrum 
 used a \"barking E minor triad\" to open the \"Exaudi\" movement of a work written for the 50th 
anniversary of the Boston Symphony. He named an E-flat concerto for the Bliss family estate in DC. For 
10 points, name this composer of  
Symphony of Psalms 
 and the  
Dumbarton Oaks Concerto 
, as well as  
The 
Rite of Spring 
. 
ANSWER: Igor Fyodorovich  
Stravinsky 
020-12-59-11118 
18. This poet declared, \"The pure products of America go crazy\" in a poem about a materialist with 
\"ungainly hips and flopping breasts,\" \"To Elsie.\" Responding to T.S. Eliot's \"The Wasteland,\" he described 
the \"stiff curl of wildcarrot leaf\" that grows up in the muddy terrain \"by the road to the contagious 
hospital.\" This poet of  
Spring and All 
 befriended Ezra Pound at Pennsylvania Medical School and coined 
the maxim \"no ideas but in things.\" His works include a lengthy poem about a town in New Jersey and a 
shorter poem describing an object \"glazed with rain water beside the white chickens.\" For 10 points, name 
this American modernist poet who wrote  
Paterson 
 and “The Red Wheelbarrow.” 
ANSWER: William Carlos  
Williams 
149-12-59-11119 
19. In one process which produces this compound, nitrogen oxides are removed from the liquid phase to the 
gas phase in the Glover tower, which is connected by the namesake units to the Gay-Lussac tower. In 
another process which produces this compound, a container of silica with a vanadium (V) oxide catalyst 
produces its namesake element’s trioxide, which is converted to oleum. Those processes for producing this 
compound are the lead chamber process and the contact process. For 10 points, name this strong acid, the 
only one to be diprotic, with a chemical formula of H SO . 
2 4 
ANSWER:  
sulfuric acid 
 [or  
H SO 
2 4 
 before it is read] 
014-12-59-11120 
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  4 of 11 
20. This policy was satirized by the Canadian \"Godfrey-Milliken Bill.\" It was strengthened after two 
Brothers to the Rescue planes were shot down in 1996. Before this policy went into effect, Pierre Salinger 
acquired 1,200 H. Upmann products. The \"Torricelli Law\" and the Helms-Burton Act strengthened this 
policy by imposing penalties on offending companies, but it was lessened after 2001's Hurricane Michelle. 
The Chamber of Commerce claims this policy costs the U.S. economy over a billion dollars a year in lost 
sales and exports. First imposed in October 1960, it has remained in existence despite pressure to end it, 
probably due to support from exiles in Florida. For 10 points, name this policy that bans U.S. business with 
a Caribbean nation. 
ANSWER: United States  
embargo against Cuba 
 [or equivalent answers] 
052-12-59-11121 
21. During this man's time as Prime Minister, his enemies mocked him with the slogan \"Starve with 
Strachey and shiver with Shinwell,\" referring to some of his ministers. His government tried a failed plan to 
cultivate peanuts in the so-called \"Tanganyika Groundnut Scheme.\" Near the end of this man's ministry, his 
Minister of Labour, Aneurin Bevan, resigned in protest of an austerity budget set up by Chancellor of the 
Exchequer Hugh Gaitskell to fund war efforts. During his ministry, he implemented William Beveridge's 
proposals by creating the National Health Service. For 10 points, name this Prime Minister whose party 
claimed it could better rebuild postwar Britain than the Conservatives, allowing this man to defeat Winston 
Churchill in 1945. 
ANSWER: Clement Richard  
Attlee 
052-12-59-11122 
22. The same year that this writer was diagnosed with cancer, she wrote a thorough verse-by-verse 
examination of the Book of Revelation. This author wrote a love poem that concludes that \"Better by far 
you should forget and smile than that you should remember and be sad\" and another work which states that 
\"there is no friend like a sister in calm or stormy weather.\" This author of  
The Face of the Deep 
 wrote the 
lyrics to the carol \"In the Bleak Midwinter\" and was criticized for the erotic imagery of a girl eating pulp 
off of her sister's body in a poem in which a lock of hair is offered to a group of disgusting fruit-purveyors 
who repeat, \"come buy, come buy.\" For 10 points, name this author of \"Goblin Market,\" the sister of the 
Pre-Raphaelite Dante. 
ANSWER:  hristina Georgina  
C Rossetti 
 [prompt on  
Rossetti 
] 
020-12-59-11123 
23. A function partially named for this symbol is equal to the limit of a Gaussian distribution as the 
standard deviation approaches zero. A function that is defined as zero everywhere except for when its two 
inputs are equal is partially named for this symbol. It’s not sigma, but this symbol is commonly used to 
denote the uncertainty in a particle’s position. This symbol lends its name to a function that is equal to zero 
everywhere but at zero, where it is equal to one. Frequently, a function f of x is said to have a limit at a if 
for a each real epsilon greater than zero there is a number, represented by this symbol, greater than zero 
such that the absolute value of x minus a is less than this symbol. For 10 points, name this Greek symbol 
that is frequently used in math to denote a change in a quantity’s value. 
ANSWER:  
delta 
149-12-59-11124 
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2012 
Round 11 
Bonuses 
1. Cebes and Simmias question the affinity argument made in this dialogue, which claims the souls of those 
who did not live a virtuous life will be “imprisoned in another body.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this dialogue, whose main speaker's belief in the immortality of the soul makes him not fear his 
impending death by hemlock. 
ANSWER:  
Phaedo 
[10] The main speaker in the Phaedo is this Greek philosopher, the teacher of Plato. 
ANSWER:  
Socrates 
[10] Socrates argues for the soul's immortality with his theory of recollection, which also appears in the  
Meno. 
 That dialogue begins with Meno asking whether this quality can be taught. This Greek term is often 
translated as “virtue” or “excellence,” and refers to fulfilling one's highest potential. 
ANSWER:  
arete 
121-12-59-11201  
2. Quartz is the second most abundant mineral in this group. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this mineral group whose basic building block is composed of four oxygen atoms surrounding 
its namesake element. 
ANSWER:  
silicate 
 [reverse prompt on  
tectosilicate 
s; do not prompt or accept any other subgroups] 
[10] This green silicate mineral is found at the top of the discontinuous branch of Bowen's reaction series. It 
consists of either two magnesium or two iron atoms bonded to SiO . 
4 
ANSWER:  
olivine 
[10] The two branches of Bowen’s reaction series converge at this tectosilicate mineral, which has 
chemical formula KAlSi O . 
3 8 
ANSWER:  
orthoclase 
 [or  
alkali feldspar 
; or  
potassium feldspar 
] 
149-12-59-11202  
3. This linguist used syntagmatic and paradigmatic analyses to develop his semiotic theories. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this author who discussed the arbitrariness of the sign in  
Course in General Linguistics 
. 
ANSWER: Ferdinand  
de Saussure 
[10] This member of the Prague Circle was influenced by de Saussure in his formulation of a theory of 
phonology. He discussed the deficiency in any language in  
On Linguistic Aspects of Translation 
. 
ANSWER: Roman  
 Jakobson 
[10] Saussure distinguished the sign-system of  
langue 
 from this other form of language, the actual speech 
acts of people. 
ANSWER:  
parole 
127-12-59-11203  
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  6 of 11 
4. Frits Zernike developed a model using circle polynomials to describe this phenomenon. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this optical phenomenon in which light does not converge into a single point, causing blurriness 
in a transmitted image. 
ANSWER: optical  
aberration 
[10] One general class of aberration occurs using this type of light that has a single frequency. 
ANSWER:  
monochromatic 
 light 
[10] Monochromatic aberration becomes problematic when this quantity exceeds a certain point. This 
quantity is equal to the index of refraction times the sine of the maximum half angle of the light that can 
pass through the lens; it defines the resolution of a lens. 
ANSWER: numerical  
aperture 
064-12-59-11204  
5. This poem took its subject matter from an incident involving Arabella Fermor and Lord Petre. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this Alexander Pope poem in which the Baron cuts a lock of Belinda's hair. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Rape of the Lock 
\" 
[10] In \"The Rape of the Lock,\" Belinda is guarded by these ineffectual spirits, who fail to prevent the 
Baron from accomplishing his ends. 
ANSWER:  
sylph 
s 
[10] This character gives the Baron the scissors he uses to cut Belinda's hair. In later editions, she explains 
that \"charms strike the sight, but merit wins the soul\" in a parody of Sarpedon's speech to Glaucus. 
ANSWER:  
Clarissa 
080-12-59-11205  
6. This movement spread its tendrils into English interior design, particularly into the London home of 
Frederic Leighton. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this kitschy nineteenth century art movement, exemplified by the works of Jean-Leon Gerome 
and in depictions of the garb of the Three Magi. 
ANSWER:  
Oriental 
ism 
[10] One Orientalist painting is this Delacroix work, depicting three of its title subjects lounging in their 
apartment, smoking hashish. 
ANSWER:  
The  Women of Algiers  (In Their Apartment) 
[10] Many Orientalist portraits were of these slave women in Ottoman seraglios. Ingres painted a \"grande\" 
one with an extra vertebra or three. 
ANSWER:  
odalisque 
s [or  
odalik 
] 
020-12-59-11206  
7. This character is described as having \"blue eyes wet with victory\" after she reveals to her husband that 
she is pregnant, and that she lied about it to Ellen Olenska. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this wife of Newland Archer. 
ANSWER:  
May 
 Welland [or May  
Welland 
] 
[10] Newland Archer is the protagonist of  
The Age of Innocence, 
 a novel by this American author. 
ANSWER: Edith  
Wharton 
 [or Edith Newbold  
Jones 
] 
[10] In Wharton's novel  
Ethan Frome 
, the title character is partially paralyzed as a result of this type of 
accident, in which he attempts to kill himself in a suicide pact with Mattie Silver. 
ANSWER:  
sled 
ding accident 
052-12-59-11207  
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  7 of 11 
8. This action was responded to by the USS  
New Jersey 
 engaging in a massive shore bombardment in the 
Bekaa valley. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1983 attack carried out by two truck bombs, killing 299 American and French servicemen. 
ANSWER: 1983  
Beirut barracks bomb 
ings [prompt on partial answer] 
[10] The bombing energized this paramilitary group based in Lebanon, headed since 1992 by Hassan 
Nasrallah. 
ANSWER:  
Hezbollah 
 [or  
Hizb Allah 
; or  
Hizbullah 
] 
[10] A crazy conspiracy theory implicates this organization in the attack. In the Lillehammer affair, they 
took revenge for the Munich massacre. 
ANSWER:  
Mossad 
 [or Ha 
Mossad 
 leModi'in uleTafkidim Meyuchadim; or  
Institute 
 for Intelligence and 
Special Operations] 
020-12-59-11208  
9. Conidiospores are produced during asexual reproduction in one phylum of this kingdom that normally 
reproduces with sporangiophores. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this kingdom that includes the zygomycete  
Rhizopus stolonifer 
, or black bread mold, and the 
basidiomycetes which include mushrooms. 
ANSWER:  
fungi 
[10] This phylum of fungi has septate hyphae and produces asci in the hymenium. These sac fungi include  
Candida albicans 
, the causative agent of yeast infections. 
ANSWER:  
Ascomycota 
 [or  
ascomycetes 
] 
[10] Fungal cells form filaments called hyphae, which combine to form this large, undifferentiated mass. 
ANSWER:  
mycelium 
 [or  
mycelia 
] 
124-12-59-11209  
10. According to Ovid, Anna Perenna tricked this god into marrying her by pretending to be his sister, 
Minerva. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this war god, the Roman analog of Ares. 
ANSWER:  
Mars 
[10] Mars is also known for impregnating this Vestal Virgin, whose uncle Amulius then imprisoned her. 
ANSWER:  
Rhea Silvia 
 [or  
Ilia 
] 
[10] These \"jumping priests\" dressed in archaic garb and used shields called  
ancilia 
 in rituals celebrating 
Mars. 
ANSWER: the  
Salii 
080-12-59-11210  
11. This art form's  
aragoto 
 style relied on emotive poses called  
mie 
 to establish character. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this form of Japanese dance-drama created by Okuni of Izumo. 
ANSWER:  
kabuki 
[10] A popular kabuki play,  
Chushingura 
, tells the story of these historical warriors. These former retainers 
of Asano Naganori killed an official named Kira to avenge their master. 
ANSWER: the  
47 Ronin 
 [or  
47 Samurai 
; prompt on partial answer] 
[10] These female Japanese entertainers were trained in music and dance. Arthur Golden wrote the 
\"Memoirs\" of one of these people. 
ANSWER:  
geisha 
080-12-59-11211  
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  8 of 11 
12. Some members of this group protested when Nepal decided to allow people other than them to enroll in 
Sanskrit-language schools. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this highest of the four traditional castes, supposedly stocked with people with the greatest 
degree of spiritual knowledge. 
ANSWER:  
brahmin 
s 
[10] Brahmin teenage boys undergo this action as part of a coming of age. It is also performed by most 
Buddhist monks and nuns upon being ordained. 
ANSWER: head  
shaving 
[10] Another major event in the life of a Brahmin boy is the upanayana ceremony, in which the boy learns 
to pronounce the Gayatri Mantra and is given this object to wear over his left shoulder. 
ANSWER: sacred  
thread 
 [or  
jeneu 
] 
020-12-59-11212  
13. Pierre Laval, Ramsay MacDonald, and Benito Mussolini agreed to support the independence of this 
country in the Stresa Agreement. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country formed by the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye and later ruled by President 
Wilhelm Miklas. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Austria 
 [or Republick  
Oesterreich 
] 
[10] This is the name given to Nazi Germany's 1938 annexation of Austria. Austrian Chancellor Kurt 
Schuschnigg controversially put this issue to a referendum. 
ANSWER:  
Anschluss 
[10] This Nazi was installed as Austrian Chancellor after the Anschluss. He was executed after the war 
because he sent Dutch Jews to Auschwitz while serving as the Nazi governor of the Netherlands. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Seyss-Inquart 
079-12-59-11213  
14. If a function has this property, then for any epsilon, there is some delta such that, for any two points in 
its domain within delta of one another, the difference in its values at those two points will be less than 
epsilon. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this stricter form of continuity. 
ANSWER:  
uniform continuity 
[10] A function of one variable is not uniformly continuous if it approaches a \"vertical\" one of these lines, 
which can be seen in functions like one over x. 
ANSWER: vertical  
asymptote 
[10] If a continuous function is defined on a finite set of this type, the function is uniformly continuous. 
These sets contain their own limit points. 
ANSWER:  
closed 
 sets 
080-12-59-11214  
15. This author founded a London police force called the Bow Street Runners. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author, who parodied Samuel Richardson’s  
Pamela 
 with  
Shamela 
 and also wrote a comic 
novel titled  
Joseph Andrews. 
 His best known novel is about a lad who falls in love with Sophia Western. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Fielding 
[10] The latter novel by Fielding tells the story of this foundling, who is raised by Squire Allworthy. 
Eventually, it turns out that he is actually the Squire’s nephew. 
ANSWER:  
Tom 
 Jones [or Tom  
Jones 
] 
[10] This antagonist of  
Tom Jones 
 is the son of Squire Allworthy’s sister, Bridget, and a naval captain. He 
turns out to be Tom’s half-brother because Bridget is also Tom’s mother. 
ANSWER: Master  
Blifil 
052-12-59-11215  
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  9 of 11 
16. Answer the following about mass settings in classical music, for 10 points each. 
[10] The most famous baroque mass, the  
Mass in B minor 
, was composed by this musician for the 
newly-crowned Augustus III. 
ANSWER:  ohann  ebastian  
J S Bach 
 [prompt on just  
Bach 
] 
[10] In Mozart's  
Requiem 
, this movement is a double fugue. Its name is Greek for \"Lord, have mercy.\" 
ANSWER:  
kyrie 
 eleison 
[10] A particularly long  
Gloria 
 and  
Credo 
 are present in this D major mass by Beethoven, dedicated to 
Archduke Rudolf of Austria. 
ANSWER:  
Missa Solemnis  in D Major, Op. 123 
020-12-59-11216  
17. This dynasty was founded by Childeric I and named for his father. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Frankish dynasty that gained control of all of Gaul under Clovis. 
ANSWER:  
Merovingian 
 dynasty 
[10] Merovingian kings delegated power in some areas, such as Austrasia, to men holding this office once 
held by Charles Martel. 
ANSWER:  
Mayor of the Palace 
 [or  
majordomo 
] 
[10] This western part of the Merovingian kingdom was ruled by mayors of the palace, including Charles 
Martel and Pepin the Short. 
ANSWER:  
Neustria 
105-12-59-11217  
18. The speaker of this poem claims, \"My love is such that rivers cannot quench,\" and requests, \"let's so 
persevere that when we live no more, we may live ever. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem that begins, \"If ever two were one, then surely we.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
To My Dear and Loving Husband 
\" 
[10] \"To My Dear and Loving Husband\" was written by this early American poet of  
The Tenth Muse, 
Lately Sprung Up in America. 
ANSWER: Anne  
Bradstreet 
[10] Bradstreet is the subject of a poem by this other American poet, who explored a parallel self named 
Henry in a collection with an entry beginning, \"Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so.\" 
ANSWER: John  
Berryman 
064-12-59-11218  
19. The Lewis theory of these compounds defines them as electron pair acceptors. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give this general term for compounds which are proton donors according to the Bronsted-Lowry 
definition. 
ANSWER:  
acid 
s 
[10] This compound reacts with water in a Lewis acid-base reaction to form carbonic acid. 
ANSWER:  
carbon dioxide 
 [or  
CO2 
] 
[10] This element's trifluoride compound is a common Lewis acid due to its electron deficient nature. This 
element's hydride compounds are described by Wade's rules. 
ANSWER:  
boron 
132-12-59-11219  
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  10 of 11 
20. For 10 points each, name the following about American spies for Soviet Russia. 
[10] This German physicist worked on the Manhattan project before he was convicted of espionage for 
trying to give the Soviets information about the hydrogen bomb. 
ANSWER: Klaus Emil Julius  
Fuchs 
[10] This couple was controversially sentenced to death for working with David Greenglass to pass nuclear 
secrets to the U.S.S.R. 
ANSWER: Ethel Greenglass and Julius  
Rosenberg 
 [or  
Rosenberg 
s] 
[10] This Treasury official was accused of passing critical information on to Russia during World War II; 
he died three days after testifying in front of the HUAC. 
ANSWER: Harry Dexter  
White 
088-12-59-11220  
21. In the last chapter of the work he appears in, this character finds a former colleague working for the 
sensationalist tabloid  
Extra. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character, who appears in a work with chapters alternating between his narration and the 
increasingly unhinged works of Pedro Camacho. 
ANSWER:  
Mario 
 Vargas Llosa [or Mario  
Vargas Llosa 
; or  
Marito 
; or  
Varguitas 
] 
[10] Mario appears in this novel by Mario Vargas Llosa in which Pedro Camacho is the second title 
character. 
ANSWER:  
Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter 
 [or  
La  Tía Julia y el Escribador 
] 
[10] Mario narrowly manages to save Pedro Camacho from an attack by two people from this country, 
whom Camacho routinely vilifies in his scripts. The second book of  
Hopscotch 
 takes place in this country, 
the birthplace of its author, Julio Cortázar. 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
 [or  
Argentine Republic 
; or Republica  
Argentina 
] 
121-12-59-11221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 11     Page  11 of 11 
