NASAT 2011 
Round 20 
Tossups 
1. In the study of this force, the Bjorken scaling helped find the dependence of the structure function in the 
large angle deflection of electrons in deep inelastic scattering. This led to the parton model. With long 
wavelengths, particles that interact via this force have a full Yukawa cloud, but for short wavelengths, this 
force vanishes. In a vacuum below .2 GeV, a condensate of particles that interact via this force can form. 
Separating two particles that interact via this force that has asymptotic freedom requires infinite energy. 
Gluons carry this force that confines colors, which means only hadrons can be seen and not the constituent 
particles. For 10 points, name this force that holds quarks together in the protons and neutrons, as opposed 
to the weak force. 
ANSWER:  
strong 
 nuclear force/interaction 
107-11-30-20102 
2. This artist depicted a snorkel emerging from the water as a woman grasps her breasts in  
Woman in Tub 
. 
A recent Hunter Jonakin piece is composed of an arcade game in which the player wanders a museum 
destroying this man’s work with a rocket launcher. He created three identical porcelains of a golden clad 
pop star holding a monkey titled  
Michael Jackson and Bubbles 
. This artist used shiny metallic surfaces for 
his sculpture of  
Tulips 
, which is located in Bilbao near his sculpture of a puppy which is made from 
flowers. For 10 points, name this American artist best known for kitschy sculptures of balloon animals and 
other mundane objects. 
ANSWER: Jeff  
Koons 
015-11-30-20103 
3. In quantum mechanics, the Fourier transform of this quantity's operator is represented by the position 
operator, and this quantity's operator is equal to negative i times h bar times the gradient. Translation 
invariance of the Hamiltonian or Lagrangian implies conservation of this quantity, which is equal to the 
product of h bar and the wave number for a photon. It is conserved in both elastic and inelastic collisions, 
and its change in a given time interval is the impulse. Its time derivative is equal to the product of mass and 
acceleration by Newton's Second Law. For 10 points, identify this product of mass and velocity. 
ANSWER: linear  
momentum 
 [do not accept \"angular momentum\"] 
081-11-30-20104 
4. One of these animals named Maera brought Erigone to the body of her father, Icarius. Another of these 
animals was depicted next to the throne of Serapis, the official god of Ptolemaic Egypt. The female doctor 
Procris of Athens was given one of these animals as a gift after she cured King Minos. One of these 
animals named Orthrus had two heads and was killed by Hercules during the labor involving the cattle of 
Geryon. One of these animals, Laelaps, was turned to stone by Zeus after he created a paradox by chasing 
an uncatchable fox. Odysseus owned another of these animals named Argos. For 10 points, name this 
animal, examples of which include Cerberus. 
ANSWER:  
dogs 
021-11-30-20105 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. The man who implemented this policy defended it by claiming a recent eruption of the island of Thera 
showed God’s wrath. Artabasdus seized power to end this policy, but was overthrown and blinded when 
Constantine retook control. This policy was supported at the Council of Hieria, which prompted the Syrian 
monk John of Damascus to attack it. It was partially implemented to curtail the influence of Germanus, and 
it was defended by Empress Irene. It began when a cross was placed over the Chalke Gate at 
Constantinople. For 10 points, name this policy implemented by Leo III, in which pictures of saints were 
destroyed. 
ANSWER:  
iconoclasm 
080-11-30-20106 
6. One section of this poem ends with the declaration, \"Everything indicates . . . A necessary film envelops 
all, and envelops the Soul for a proper time.\" The speaker claims \"the dark threw patches down upon me\" 
before comparing himself to \"the wolf, the snake, the hog\" to explain his assertion \"I am he who knew what 
it was to be evil.\" The speaker asks, \"What is the count of the scores or hundreds of years between us?\" 
after repeatedly claiming \"I am with you\" and I project myself.\" The first section of this poem addresses 
\"Crowds of men and women attired in the usual costumes\" and begins, \"Flood-tide below me! I watch you 
face to face.\" For 10 points, name this member of the \"Calamus\" poems in which Walt Whitman describes 
a trip across the East River in Manhattan. 
ANSWER: \" 
Crossing Brooklyn Ferry 
\" 
024-11-30-20107 
7. Though he is not Fragonard, this artist painted a woman in a blue and white dress timidly stepping on the 
title object in his painting  
The Swing 
. He painted a woman in a striped dress in front of a man peering 
through opera glasses in his painting of a theater box. This artist painted a red background behind a pair of 
sisters dressed in the title colors in his  
Pink and Blue 
. One painting by this artist shows a woman in a blue 
and yellow striped dress being leaned over by another woman at a party, and in another painting this artist 
shows a female figure attempting to kiss a small dog as three different people wear yellow straw hats. For 
10 points, name this artist of  
Dance at the Moulin de la Galette 
 and  
Luncheon of the Boating Party 
. 
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste  
Renoir 
088-11-30-20108 
8. This state retained control of Seavey’s Island in a 2001 Supreme Court case contesting its border with its 
southern neighbor at the Piscataqua River. The first transatlantic balloon crossing was launched from its 
city of Presque Isle. Much of this state is watered by the Penobscot River, which becomes navigable after 
running past the city of Bangor. The “Hundred-Mile Wilderness” in this state culminates in Mount 
Katahdin, the northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail. For 10 points, name this state which was 
partitioned entirely out of Massachusetts and which has cities named Portland and Augusta. 
ANSWER:  
Maine 
015-11-30-20109 
9. This author wrote a travelogue about his journey through the Caucasus region in which he describes a 
Jewish peddler who attempted to sell him a cheap watch. This author of  
In Wonderland 
 included that 
episode in his novel  
Vagabonds 
. He wrote about a writer named Johannes who is unable to marry the title 
character after she marries a lieutenant named Otto, while in another work the protagonist shoots his dog 
Aesop rather than give it to his lover Edvarda. This author wrote about Thomas Glahn in  
Pan 
 and described 
the peasants Isak and Inger in  
The Growth of the Soil 
. He wrote about an unnamed man who meets Ylajali 
while suffering from the title affliction in a novel that ironically ends with him refusing a free breakfast. 
For 10 points, name this Norwegian author of  
Hunger 
. 
ANSWER: Knut  
Hamsun 
040-11-30-20110 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. Iconic photographs of this event were taken by Boris Yaro and Bill Epperidge, one of which showed 
Juan Romero shaking the target’s hand. Irwin Stroll and Paul Schrade were wounded in this event. George 
Plimpton, Rafer Johnson, and Rosey Grier subdued the instigator of this event. Bill Barry disarmed the 
aggressor in this event, who is currently serving time in Pleasant Valley State Prison and was believed to be 
motivated by anti-Zionism. The victim had just spoken after a victory in the California primary. This event 
took place in the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel. For 10 points, name this event in which Sirhan Sirhan 
killed a Senator and brother of an assassinated president. 
ANSWER:  
assassination of R 
obert Francis  
Kennedy 
 [or  
assassination of RFK 
; accept equivalent 
answers such as  
killing of Bobby Kennedy 
; prompt on  
assassination of Kennedy 
] 
048-11-30-20111 
11. One test of this phenomenon found participants would impulsively touch people holding a live electric 
wire. In addition to Clark and Word's study about ambiguity's role in promoting it, one test had participants 
fill out a survey while pumping the room full of smoke, while another test had subjects listen to a recording 
of a woman screaming. It was first outlined by Bibb Latane and John Darley in an article that argued it may 
result from the \"diffusion of responsibility.\" For 10 points, name this psychological effect exemplified by 
the murder of Kitty Genovese that posits people in a large group are less likely to help someone during a 
crisis. 
ANSWER:  
bystander 
 effect [prompt on Kitty  
Genovese 
 effect before the name is read] 
109-11-30-20112 
12. In one section of this work, the double bass plays a slowed-down, ponderous version of the \"Dance of 
the Sylphs\" from  
The Damnation of Faust 
. Two pianists play rapid scales up and down the piano in its third 
section. An offstage clarinet repeats the ostinato C, A flat in a section of this work in order to imitate a 
being \"from the depths of the woods.\" It instructs performers to deliberately hit wrong notes after playing 
simple scales in its section \"Pianists,\" and mocks its composer by using a xylophone to quote sections of  
Danse Macabre 
 in its section \"Fossils.\" Featuring the movements \"Aviary,\" \"Aquarium,\" and \"The Swan,\" 
for 10 points, name this \"Grand Zoological Fantasy\" by Camille Saint-Saens. 
ANSWER:  
The  Carnival of the Animals 
 [or  
Le  Carnaval des animaux 
] 
001-11-30-20113 
13. The story that a horned baby of the Devil appeared at this place due to the violent actions of a woman's 
husband was told in the book  
The Long Road of Woman's Memory 
. It began as a kindergarten after its 
building was rented from Helen Culver for sixty dollars a month. Doctors who lived here included Grace 
Meigs and Alice Hamilton. This location was based on an institution that provided a place for college 
students in the summer to gain work experience called Toynbee Hall. It expanded to include the first public 
baths and playground in its city and advocated social welfare issues to the state legislature. For 10 points, 
name this Chicago house of Ellen Gates Starr and Jane Addams. 
ANSWER:  
Hull House 
040-11-30-20114 
14. Ferroxyl solution is prepared by adding sodium chloride, potassium hexacyanoferranate, and this 
substance to water, and when bonded to two extra hydrogen atoms it contains a benzene ring fused to a 
gamma-lactone. Fluorescin has a higher quantum yield than this molecule due to an additional bridging 
oxygen, and its most notable property occurs when one of its benzene rings twists out of plane with respect 
to the other two. When mixed with bromothymol blue, thymol blue, and methyl red, it forms a universal 
indicator. For 10 points, name this chemical which turns pink in basic solutions and orange in acidic ones. 
ANSWER:  
phenolphthalein 
048-11-30-20115 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. This thinker defended his belief in the world-to-come in his  
Treatise on Resurrection. 
 In another work 
this man used the example of a winged elephant to demonstrate how belief in a corporeal god is tantamount 
to idolatry. This thinker propounded thirteen principles of faith and, though he is not Muslim, this man's 
most famous work is written in Arabic. In that work, this man attempts to reconcile Aristotelian philosophy 
with Judaism. For 10 points, name this Jewish philosopher who wrote commentaries on the Mishnah in 
addition to his  
Guide for the Perplexed 
. 
ANSWER: Moses  
Maimonides 
 [or  
Rambam 
] 
081-11-30-20116 
16. This character convinces the swineherd Gurth to open a gate by whispering a few unknown words into 
his ear. That incident occurs while he is disguised as a palmer and helping out Isaac of York. He enters a 
tournament under the name “Desdichado,” is captured by Maurice de Bracy, and fights a duel with the 
Templar Brian de Bois-Guilbert. This son of Cedric the Saxon befriends the outlaw Robin Hood and the 
disguised Richard the Lionhearted. He rescues the Jewess Rebecca from burning at the stake but ultimately 
marries Lady Rowena. For 10 points, name this title character of a Sir Walter Scott novel. 
ANSWER: Wilfred of  
Ivanhoe 
015-11-30-20117 
17. The kenning for Baldr’s funerary boat contains the name of this figure, whose descendent Grani is a 
companion of the hero Sigurd. In the  
Prose Edda 
, Gangleri is told how Thor bet Hrungnir that this figure 
was superior to Gullfaxi. He is born after the gods wager the sun, the moon, and Freyja against a builder’s 
ability to build Valhalla without another man’s help. The builder makes incredible progress with his animal 
helper Svadilfari, so Loki seduces Svadilfari while disguised as a mare, later giving birth to this figure. For 
10 points, name this eight-legged horse of Odin. 
ANSWER:  
Sleipnir 
079-11-30-20118 
18. Some members of this class remain stationary with the help of byssal threads. The species  
Crassostrea 
gigas 
 in this class introduced the parasite MSX to a closely related species. When this class of animals first 
evolved, they outcompeted and almost entirely replaced a phylum of similar-looking animals called 
brachiopods. These animals often feed by using elongated siphons to filter water. These animals have an 
open circulatory system with hemolymph, and like other members of their phylum they move using a single 
fleshy foot. Unique parts of their anatomy include a hinge, and they are bilaterally symmetrical. For 10 
points, name this class of mollusks with two shells, which includes clams and oysters. 
ANSWER:  
bivalves 
 [or  
bivalva 
; or  
pelecypoda 
; prompt on “mollusks” or “mollusca”] 
021-11-30-20119 
19. This man related finding himself standing in “Ten million emblems and mementos of Modern Love” 
during a beachside stroll with Thomas Mann in his essay on sanitation engineering, “Hyperion to a Satyr.” 
He represented D. H. Lawrence as Bill Hamblin in  
The World of Light 
, and earlier represented him as the 
painter Mark Rampion in a work also featuring excerpts from the journal of Philip Quarles. In another 
work, this man described the sport of Centrifugal Bumble-Puppy, the Bokanovsky process, and a caste 
system of Alphas through Epsilons. For 10 points, name this author of  
Point Counter Point 
 who also 
envisioned the Malthusian Drill in his  
Brave New World 
. 
ANSWER: Aldous  
Huxley 
003-11-30-20120 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. According to Pliny, this man lost a bet when his lover drank a pearl dissolved in a glass of vinegar. This 
man violated sanctuary laws in ordering the death of Arsinoe IV at the Temple of Artemis in Ephesus. He 
paved the way for Herod the Great’s rule by killing Antigonus the Hasmonean after his disastrous attempt 
to recapture Crassus’s eagles from the Parthians. This target of Cicero’s  
Philippics 
 lost a naval battle to 
Agrippa and defeated Cassius at Philippi. With Lepidus and Octavius, he formed the second triumvirate. 
For 10 points, name this loser at Actium, the friend of Julius Caesar and lover of Cleopatra 
ANSWER: Mark  
Antony 
 [or Marcus  
Antonius 
] 
015-11-30-20121 
21. One of this poet’s speakers claims “I rocked shut as a seashell” so they \"had to pick the worms off me 
like sticky pearls.” This poet wrote a poem opening “Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children” while 
another poem has an image of a “statue with one grey toe big as a Frisco seal and a head in the freakish 
Atlantic.” The speaker asserts “I have done it again. One year in every ten I manage it” in a poem ending 
with the line “I eat men like air.” This poet of “Munich Mannequins” and “Tulips” wrote a poem whose 
speaker asserts, “There’s a stake in your fat black heart” before telling the title figure “you bastard, I’m 
through.” For 10 points, name this wife of Ted Hughes who wrote “Lady Lazarus” and “Daddy.” 
ANSWER: Sylvia  
Plath 
109-11-30-20122 
22. The antibiotic rotenone inhibits one step of this process, whose final protein has an oligomycin 
sensitive region. This process sees a protein containing an iron-sulfur cluster interact with a semiquinone 
intermediate. Coenzyme Q is responsible for transferring substrates to the cytochrome bc1 complex in this 
process, which then transfers those substrates to cytochrome c oxidase. Peter Mitchell showed that this 
process operates by chemiosmosis, in which a proton gradient drives the rotation of ATP synthase. NADH 
and FADH2 from the Krebs cycle feed into this process, which occurs on the inner membrane of the 
mitochondria. For 10 points, name this final step of oxidative phosphorylation in which 32 ATP are 
synthesized by moving namesake negatively charged particles from one complex to another. 
ANSWER:  
Electron transport chain 
 [prompt on  
oxidative phosphorylation 
; prompt on aerobic  
respiration 
; prompt on  
ATP synthesis 
] 
048-11-30-20123 
23. In one campaign, this man convinced King Bocchus I of Mauretania to betray a former ally. In  
The 
Prince 
, Machiavelli describes this man as being half fox and half lion. This man is credited as being the 
primary brains behind the victory of the Cimbri tribe at the Battle of Vercellae. Sulpicius Rufus’s 
opposition to the appointment of this man to a high post, along with the ensuing chaos, led this man to lead 
a march on his capital. After a brief skirmish with Dorylaeus, this man defeated Archelaus at the Battle of 
Orchomenus. Along with Crassus, this man defeated Samnite forces at the Battle of Colline Gate. This man 
defeated the forces of the Kingdom of Pontus led by Mithradates VI and earlier captured King Jugurtha of 
Numidia while working under Gaius Marius. For 10 points, name this Roman dictator who ruled in 81 BC. 
ANSWER: Lucius Cornelius  
Sulla 
 Felix 
064-11-30-20124 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 20 
Bonuses 
1. This building is locally known as \"The Quarry,\" and it presaged many other buildings built in a 
biomorphic style. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this large apartment block which was built for the wealthy widow Rosario Segimo. 
ANSWER:  
Casa Mila 
[10] Casa Mila was designed by this Catalan architect who also designed the Casa Batllo and other 
Barcelona landmarks. 
ANSWER: Antoni  
Gaudi 
[10] Gaudi’s most famous building is this still unfinished church located in Barcelona. The original plan 
called for 18 spires which represented various holy figures. 
ANSWER: Basilica and Expiatory Church de la  
Sagrada Familia 
 [or Church of the  
Holy Family 
] 
100-11-30-20201 
2. This theory involves multi dimensional membranes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 11 dimensional theory that attempts to unite previous theories with supergravity as a low 
energy limit. 
ANSWER:   theory 
M 
[10] M theory is one of these theories that attempts to unite quantum mechanics and general relativity. It 
involves small one dimensional vibrating lines. 
ANSWER:  
string 
 theory 
[10] M theory incorporates this symmetry between particles of different spin. If it is unbroken, every boson 
has a corresponding fermion with the same mass and other quantum numbers. However, this symmetry is 
generally thought to be broken. 
ANSWER:  
supersymmetry 
107-11-30-20202 
3. During the French revolution he had a central role at the Battle of Valmy. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who came to power in his own right following the July Revolution. 
ANSWER:  
Louis Philippe 
 I 
[10] Louis Philippe replaced the solid white flag used by the Bourbon restoration with this revolutionary 
flag of France. 
ANSWER: the  
tricolor 
[10] To come to power, Louis overthrew this Bourbon monarch who had decreed the Saint Cloud 
ordinances. 
ANSWER:  
Charles X 
015-11-30-20203 
4. The pimp Mr. Edwards beats this character when he discovers she murdered her parents. For 10 points 
each; 
[10] Name this character who adopts the name Kate while working at Faye’s brothel, which she takes over 
by poisoning Faye. She abandoned her husband when she gave birth to the twins Caleb and Aron. 
ANSWER:  
Cathy 
 Ames 
[10] Cathy Ames marries Adam who is a member of this central family of the novel  
 East of Eden 
. 
ANSWER: The  
Trask 
 family 
[10] This California author wrote  
 East of Eden 
 and described the Joad family in another novel. 
ANSWER: John  
Steinbeck 
109-11-30-20204 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This language’s words for “sea monster” and “poison” contain masculine endings but are actually 
neuter. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this basis of the Romance languages that has five declensions of nouns, some of which end in 
\"u.\" 
ANSWER:  
Latin 
[10] This Latin case is often used to indicate agency and is often taught as being used for motion away 
from an object. Its not the dative, but the singular suffix form of this case for masculine and neutered 
second declension nouns replaces the “us” with “o.” 
ANSWER:  
ablative 
 case 
[10] This type of clause uses a noun and accompanying participle, both in the ablative case, and is usually 
translated with an awkward English construction such as \"with the bonus having been answered.\" 
ANSWER: ablative  
absolute 
033-11-30-20205 
6. This technique often uses fludeoxyglucose tagged with the radioactive isotope fluorine-18. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this type of imaging that labels cells by their metabolic activity, often used in conjunction with 
CT scans and MRIs. Images are detected when emitted radiation annihilates with nearby electrons. 
ANSWER:  
PET 
 imaging [or  ositron  mission  omography imaging; accept equivalents for \"imaging\" 
P E T 
such as \"scan\"] 
[10] PET imaging works because fludeoxyglucose is taken up instead of glucose in this metabolic pathway 
that generates a net of 2 ATP molecules and two pyruvate molecules. 
ANSWER:  
glycolysis 
[10] This other imaging technique uses a radioactive tracer like PET, but the tracer emits gamma rays. The 
device rotates a camera around the subject and obtains true 3D information. 
ANSWER:  
SPECT 
 [or  
single photon emission computed tomography 
] 
066-11-30-20206 
7. Name these William Golding novels, for 10 points each. 
[10] In this novel, Ralph and Jack lead rival groups of boys on an isolated island after a plane crash. 
ANSWER:  
Lord of the Flies 
[10] Golding’s favorite, this novel concerns the extinction of a pre-human tribe including Lok and Fa. 
ANSWER:  
The  Inheritors 
[10] Golding won the 1980 Booker Prize for this novel, which is in the form of a journal written by 
Edmund Talbot as he travels to Australia aboard a British warship. 
ANSWER:  
Rites of Passage 
015-11-30-20207 
8. This policy was enacted in part with the May 1988 Law on Cooperatives. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Soviet policy, literally meaning \"restructuring,\" that along with one of political openness 
paved the way for the dissolution of the Soviet Union. 
ANSWER:  
perestroika 
[10] Perestroika is often contrasted with the \"socialism with Chinese characteristics\" put forth by this man, 
who became paramount leader of China in 1978. 
ANSWER:  
Deng 
 Xiaoping 
[10] Gorbachev's reforms led to the creation of this new legislature, the highest Soviet body from 1989 to 
1991. Only one set of members was elected to this body in competitive elections. 
ANSWER:  
Congress of People's Deputies 
 of the Soviet Union 
081-11-30-20208 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. This character claims “we were the first that ever burst into that silent sea” after stopping a wedding 
guest and telling his story. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who reveals “I shot the Albatross” in a “rime” by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. 
ANSWER: the  
Ancient Mariner 
[10] The title character in Coleridge’s “Kubla Kahn” decrees a stately pleasure dome in this location, 
where “Alph, the sacred river, ran through caverns measureless to man.” 
ANSWER:  
Xanadu 
[10] In this unfinished Coleridge poem, the title character goes to pray at night and finds Geraldine, who 
claims she has been abducted. 
ANSWER: \" 
Christabel 
\" 
015-11-30-20209 
10. One of the disputes during this conflict centered on the rights to the Blue Rock Ferry. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this series of border skirmishes between Maryland and Pennsylvania that occurred during the 
1730s. This \"war\" was ended by intervention from George II. 
ANSWER:  
Cresap's 
 War 
[10] The eventual boundary between Maryland and Pennsylvania would be part of this \"line,\" named for 
two surveyors, that is often considered to be a cultural demarcation between the north and the south. 
ANSWER:  
Mason-Dixon 
 Line 
[10] The ferries that were fought over during Cresap's War spanned tributaries of this river. James Clinton 
dammed this river near its source of Otsego Lake and then destroyed the dam to make it navigable during 
the Revolutionary War. 
ANSWER:  
Susquehanna 
 River 
040-11-30-20210 
11. The liquid form of this compound is often employed in the Birch reduction. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this compound with chemical formula NH3. 
ANSWER:  
ammonia 
[10] Ammonia created in the Haber process may be used in this process, in which ammonia is oxidized in 
air to create nitric oxide, which in turn is used to create nitric acid. 
ANSWER:  
Ostwald 
 process 
[10] This chemical has formula N2H4 and is made by the Raschig process. 
ANSWER:  
hydrazine 
081-11-30-20211 
12. Name some things about deer in mythology, for 10 points each. 
[10] Some stories claim this daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra was substituted with a deer before 
she could be sacrificed for better winds. 
ANSWER:  
Iphigenia 
[10] This man is turned into a deer and devoured by his dogs after watching Artemis bathe. 
ANSWER:  
Actaeon 
[10] In the fourth branch of the Mabinogion, Math turns this magician and his brother Gilfaethwy into deer 
to punish them for killing Pryderi. 
ANSWER:  
Gwydion 
015-11-30-20212 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. He was the first presidential candidate of the Republican Party. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this explorer and politician known as the Pathfinder. 
ANSWER: John Charles  
Fremont 
[10] By trampling a Native American with his horse, Fremont saved the life of this man, who often guided 
his expeditions. 
ANSWER: Christopher Houston Kit  
Carson 
[10] After the Battle of Wilson’s Creek in this state, Fremont imposed martial law and emancipated its 
slaves, leading Lincoln to relieve him from command of the Department of the West. 
ANSWER:  
Missouri 
015-11-30-20213 
14. This character had an epiphany the morning he was planning to duel the man who married his beloved, 
leading him to drop to his knees and beg forgiveness rather than return fire during the duel. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this monk who was a rival of Father Ferapont and was widely believed to be a saint, which led 
to disappointment among the townspeople when his corpse began to decay rapidly rather than give any 
miraculous signs. 
ANSWER: Father  
Zossima 
[10] Father Zossima is the mentor of Alyosha in this Dostoevsky novel centering on Dmitri's trial over the 
murder of his father Fyodor. 
ANSWER:  
The  Brothers Karamazov 
[10] This illegitimate son of Fyodor suffers from epilepsy, and reveals to Ivan that he was the murderer of 
their father. 
ANSWER: Pavel Fyodorovich  
Smerdyakov 
081-11-30-20214 
15. One work by this philosopher advocates for a world whose nations are all republics and is written in the 
form of a treaty. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author of  
Perpetual Peace 
, who proposed that individuals act as legislators of the “kingdom 
of ends” by refusing to treat others as means as one formulation of the categorical imperative in his  
Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
[10] This aesthetic tract by Kant argues that humans perceive aesthetic beauty by their own internal 
feelings, but can also ascribe a universal validity to that feeling through the \"free play of the imagination.\" 
ANSWER:  
Critique of Judgment 
 [or  
Kritik del Urteilskraft 
] 
[10] Kant’s essay  
An Idea for a Universal History 
 claims that humans will build the tower of human 
progress ever higher with reason; despite that, he laments that “no straight thing was ever made” from this 
metaphorical substance which titles an Isaiah Berlin essay collection. 
ANSWER: the  
crooked timber 
 of humanity [or “ 
warped wood 
 of humanity”; or  
krummem Holze 
] 
104-11-30-20215 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. His first symphony was widely known as the “first Russian symphony,” and he is sometimes credited 
with writing the first Russian symphonic poem with  
Sadko 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer who used the Russian Orthdox Liturgy as the basis for his  
Russian Easter 
Festival Overture 
. 
ANSWER: Nikolai  
Rimsky-Korsakov 
[10] The title figure of this Rimsky-Korsakov suite is represented by a sinuous solo violin. It is based on  
One Thousand and One Nights 
. 
ANSWER:  
Sheherazade 
[10] Rimsy-Korsakov collaborated with the four other members of the Five on this never-completed ballet. 
Borodin composed the music of its fourth act, while Mussorgsky adapted his music for its witches' sabbath 
for  
Night on Bald Mountain 
. 
ANSWER:  
Mlada 
015-11-30-20216 
17. Madame Delise's servant Manna-Loulou tells a tale about the title princess in her short story \"La Belle 
Zoraide.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this American author of \"The Storm\" and \"Athenaise\" who wrote a story in which Armand 
burns all the belongings of his wife Desiree because he falsely believed she was part of black. 
ANSWER: Kate  
Chopin 
[10] Kate Chopin wrote about this woman in  
The Awakening 
 who has a complicated relationship with 
Robert Lebrun and ends up drowning herself. 
ANSWER:  
Edna 
 Pontellier [prompt on  
Pontellier 
] 
[10] Chopin also wrote this story ending when Louise Mallard dies of heart attack when she sees her 
husband Brently after being told he died in a train crash. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Story of an Hour 
\" 
015-11-30-20217 
18. In this process' namesake lamp, a ballast sends voltage through a wire coiled around a ferrous core. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this process by which a voltage is produced in the presence of a changing magnetic field. 
ANSWER: electromagnetic  
induction 
[10] The negative sign in Faraday's law of induction is a consequence of this law. It states the magnetic flux 
of an induced current will oppose the change that induced the current. 
ANSWER:  
Lenz's 
 law 
[10] In an RL circuit, this is the percent of the maximum current reached after one time constant. 
ANSWER:   % [or  
63 63.2% 
; or  
1-e^-1 
 %] 
066-11-30-20218 
19. Name these sculptors of equestrian statues for 10 points each: 
[10] This war correspondent during the Spanish-American War is best remembered for scenes from the old 
West like 1909’s  
The Bronco Buster 
. 
ANSWER: Frederic  
Remington 
[10] This French Rococo sculptor was commissioned by Catherine the Great to create  
The Bronze 
Horseman 
 an equestrian statue of Peter the Great that rests on a pedestal known as the Thunder Stone. 
ANSWER: Etienne Maurice  
Falconet 
[10] This Irish-born American artist sculpted an equestrian William Tecumseh Sherman for Central Park in 
addition to designing the Robert Gould Shaw Memorial in Boston. 
ANSWER: Augustus  
Saint-Gaudens 
015-11-30-20219 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. His son Richard ruled unsuccessfully after his 1658 death and was forced to flee to France to escape his 
debts. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this key figure in the English Civil War who served as Lord Protector of Ireland. 
ANSWER: Oliver  
Cromwell 
[10] Cromwell was instrumental in creating this military unit after a feud with Henry Montagu. It was 
trained and led effectively by Sir Thomas Fairfax. 
ANSWER:  
New Model Army 
[10] Cromwell advocated this 1645 legislation, whereby members of Parliament were not permitted to have 
positions in the parliamentary army. 
ANSWER:  
Self-denying Ordinance 
015-11-30-20220 
21. One type of these organisms are distinguished by their square shell and dense hair on their claws and is 
the Chinese mitten type. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these decapods which include the fiddler type which has a giant claw. 
ANSWER:  
crab 
s [or  
Brachyura 
] 
[10] Crabs are a member of this phylum along with Arachnids. 
ANSWER:  
Arthropoda 
 [or  
Arthropods 
] 
[10] The European shore crab can adapt to a variety of salt conditions, making it one of these organisms, as 
opposed to stenohaline organisms. 
ANSWER:  
euryhaline 
066-11-30-20221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 20     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
