NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 TOSSUPS  
1. During this war, a group of peasant soldiers called Tafurs were accused of eating babies. A  
siege in this war ended when Firouz let troops into the Tower of the Two Sisters. Early in this  
war, Emicho of Flonheim declared himself the “last World Emperor” and led pogroms in the  
Rhineland. The subject of an account by Fulcher of Chartres, this war featured a siege during  
which Peter Bartholomew dug up a “holy lance,” leading to a dispute between commanders  
Raymond of Toulouse and Bohemond of Taranto. One campaign during this war was ambushed  
at Civetot and led by Peter the Hermit. At the end of this war, Godfrey of Bouillon was declared  
king of an Outremer state. It started with the cry of “God wills it!” at the Council of Clermont.  
For 10 points, name this campaign that conquered Jerusalem and was called by Urban II.  
ANSWER:  First Crusade  [anti-prompt on “People’s Crusade” or “German Crusade”]   
2. An experiment within this larger study had to be scrapped due to a thin film of iron oxide  
preventing a machine from accurately judging scores. A participant in this study was nicknamed  
\"Nudie,\" and several refused to participate in one of the experiments due to the brand of pencil  
used. Another experiment in this study asked participants to estimate the length of a tug-of-war  
contest. Two participants in this study, Davis and Boyd, failed to complete all three stages  
because they were sent home prior to Stage 2. This study concerned the development and  
reduction of intergroup conflict between the \"Rattlers\" and the \"Eagles,\" two groups of twelve- 
year-old boys. For 10 points, name this study conducted in the namesake State Park in Oklahoma  
by Muzafer Sherif.  
ANSWER:  Robbers Cave  Experiment  
3. This modern-day country is home to a structure where people routinely made thirteen meter  
jumps so that their wishes would be granted. Forty years after the killing of the twenty-six  
martyrs of this country, its Christian community went underground as the \"hidden Christians\"  
lest they be forced to trample on images of Jesus or Mary. A large place of worship in this  
country is dismantled and rebuilt every twenty years, and is said to hold the Sacred Mirror, one  
of the three items in this country's regalia. This country is also home to lintel-topped vermillion  
gates known as  torii.  For 10 points, name this country whose inhabitants supposedly die  
Buddhist, but are born Shinto.  
ANSWER:  Japan  [or  Nippon ; or  Nihon ]  
4. The I-V curve of one of these devices shows a vertical jump named for Shapiro. In one model  
of these devices, they are governed by a parameter theta that \"slides\" down a washboard  
potential. Considering the phase angle of these devices as equivalent to the angle of displacement  
of a pendulum leads to an equation in which these devices are damped by the Stewart- 
McComber parameter. Putting a pair of these devices in parallel creates a device used to measure  
very weak magnetic fields. A constant of proportionality governing this effect is equal to one  
over the flux quantum. For 10 points, name these devices that operate using a namesake effect in  
which Cooper pairs tunnel across a junction of superconductors.  
ANSWER:  Josephson  junction 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 TOSSUPS  
5. In a piece of film, this event is commemorated by the actions of the so-called \"Dancing Man\"  
in Sydney, Australia. A public domain photograph about this event taken by Victor Jorgensen  
shows the Chemical Bank and Trust Building in the background. Edith Swain and George  
Mendonca, among various others, claimed to be in another photograph about it. This event was  
celebrated in a photograph taken by Alfred Eisenstaedt while standing south of 45th Street near  
Broadway. A famous photograph taken during a celebration of this event shows a sailor kissing a  
woman in a white dress in Times Square. For 10 points, name this event commemorated by  
various photographs taken on August 14, 1945.  
ANSWER:  V-J Day  [or  Victory over Japan Day ; or  end of World War II ; prompt on  soldiers  
coming home  or similar answers; do not accept \"V-E Day\"]  
6. After winning the Prix de Rome, Jacques-Louis David was approached by Polish nobleman  
Stanislaw Potocki to produce this kind of painting. Seigneur de St. Antoine and a man passing  
through a triumphal arch appear in another painting of this kind. A dark wood and stormy sky  
provide contrast in an example of this genre of painting set after the Battle of Muhlberg. A man  
in a black hat strolls leisurely in a painting of this kind that depicts its subject \"at the hunt.\"  
Rocks with the names of Hannibal and Charlemagne lie at the bottom left of a portrait of this  
kind, whose subject gestures with his right hand toward the Alps. For 10 points, name this kind  
of portrait that Titian made of Charles V and van Dyck made of the dismounted Charles I.  
ANSWER:  equestrian  portraits [or portraits on  horse back; or portraits of people riding  horse s;  
prompt on  royal portrait s or answers along the lines of  portraits of king s; prompt on  portrait s  
until it is read]  
7. In one story from this collection, a man delivers a monologue about the benefits of whipping  
to two truant boys. One of its stories features a man who yells at his baby after meeting a more  
successful old friend, and another ends with the narrator staring into a darkening hall and feeling  
“derided by vanity.” A character in one of this collection’s stories decides to include a Robert  
Browning quote in a speech. “A Little Cloud” appears in this collection, which also features a  
story about a boy who goes to buy a gift for Mangan’s sister at a bazaar. In another, Gabriel’s  
wife remembers how a childhood love died after visiting her in a rainstorm. For 10 points, name  
this collection featuring “Araby” and “The Dead” by James Joyce.  
ANSWER:  Dubliners   
8. A prepared piano solo begins the first of six compositions of this type by Alfred Schnittke.  
Ralph Vaughan Williams wrote one of these pieces for an orchestra split into sections by skill.  
Handel wrote one of them to be performed between the parts of  Alexander's Feast.  The eighth  
member of a set of twelve of these pieces ends with a 12/8 time \"Pastorale ad libitum\"  
movement. These compositions feature interplay between a larger ripieno group and a smaller  
concertino group. The most famous individual piece in this genre is Arcangelo Corelli's  
Christmas Concerto . For 10 points, name this Baroque genre that features a group of soloists and  
the orchestra, a precursor to the solo concerto.  
ANSWER:  concerto grosso  [or  concerti grossi ; or  grand concerto  or equivalent answers;  
prompt on  concerto  or  concerti  until \"concerto\" is read]  
9. This poet wrote that a certain \"self-shriveled\" class of people \"begin with gaunt and marvelous  
concession. YOU are the costume and our fundamental bone.\" In another poem by this author, 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 TOSSUPS  
the narrator declares that \"a girl gets sick of a rose\" and that she \"wants a peek at the back where  
it's rough and untended and hungry weeds grow.\" This poet wrote \"Primer for Blacks\" and \"a  
song in the front yard,\" the latter of which was included in her collection  A Street in Bronzeville.  
In another of her poems, she wrote about a group of seven pool players who \"shoot straight,\"  
\"Jazz June,\" and \"die soon.\" For 10 points, name this African-American poet of \"We Real Cool.\"  
ANSWER: Gwendolyn  Brooks   
10. A possible Democratic nominee in this election was scuttled after he compared being  
president to executing “the orders of my superiors.” In response to the formation of a ticket in  
this election, a party leader shouted “Don’t any of you realize that there’s only one life between  
that madman and the Presidency?” This was the first election in which Eugene V. Debs ran for  
President. The winner of this selection used the slogan “Four More Years of the Full Dinner  
Pail\" and again used his successful “front porch” campaign while based in Canton. That winner  
added Teddy Roosevelt as running mate. For 10 points, name this presidential election which  
was a rematch of William Jennings Bryan and William McKinley.  
ANSWER: Election of  1900   
11. A Hecatomnid ruler of this city ruined the Second Athenian Empire by inciting Rhodes, Cos,  
and Chios to revolt in the Social War. Memnon of Rhodes lost this city to Alexander in a 334  
B.C. siege. A historian from this city named Dionysius is best known for his  Roman Antiquities .  
The sculptors Leochares, Scopas, Bryaxis, and Timotheus created an Amazonomachy scene for a  
building in this city planned by Pythios and Satyros. This hometown of Herodotus was ruled by a  
commander who inspired Xerxes' comment that his men had become women, \"and women men,\"  
with her performance at the Battle of Salamis. In this capital of Caria, queen Artemisia built a  
marble tomb for her husband and brother. For 10 points, name this city in southwest Anatolia  
that contained the Mausoleum.  
ANSWER:  Halicarnassus   
12. Eighty-seven people were killed in a fire in this city in a major tourist attraction owned by  
Kirk Kerkorian. Another tourist attraction here is the \"Fremont Street Experience,\" otherwise  
known as \"Glitter Gulch.\" Betty Willis developed a sign in this city which says \"Drive Carefully- 
Come Back Soon\" on its back, with its front welcoming visitors to this \"fabulous\" city. Many of  
its tourist attractions were developed by a man who remarked \"We only kill each other,\" Bugsy  
Siegel. The lights on a street in this city were only dimmed three times, including in tribute to  
Dean Martin and Frank Sinatra. For 10 points, name this city where the Tropicana and Caesars  
Palace are located on the \"Strip.\"  
ANSWER: City of Las  Vegas 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 TOSSUPS  
13. A set of numbers used to calculate this quantity in several equations has numbers measured  
at integer square roots times the radius of the coordination sphere. That set of numbers depends  
only on crystal geometry, is found by summing Coulombic interactions, and are the Madelung  
constants, which are used in the Born-Mayer and Born-Landé (LAHN-day) equations to  
calculate this quantity. Using the atomization enthalpy of two species, and the first ionization  
energy and electron affinity of the species, one can apply Hess's law to calculate this law with the  
Born-Haber cycle. For 10 points, name this energy needed to convert a solid ionic compound  
into its gaseous components.  
ANSWER:  lattice  energy [or  lattice  enthalpy; or energy of  crystallization ]  
14. This author wrote a short story in which Holanda, Letitia, and the narrator play the game  
“Statues and Attitudes.” One of this author’s novels includes a scene in which everyone in a  
room is aware that the baby in their presence is dead except the baby's mother. The VIP is  
kidnapped by the revolutionary group “the Screwery” in this author’s novel  A Manual for  
Manuel.  He wrote a novel in which La Maga is brought to the Serpent Club by Horacio Oliveira.  
That novel of his provides a “Table of Instructions” instructing the reader to start at chapter 73  
and then alternate back and forth. For 10 points, name this Argentinian novelist, the author of  
Hopscotch.   
ANSWER: Julio  Cortázar   
15. Every finitely generated Abelian group can be decomposed by taking this operation over a  
series of cyclic groups. Taking this operation on a set of groups creates a new group with a pair  
of homeomorphisms to the original groups called the coordinate functions. Taking it on a series  
of compact topological spaces returns a compact topological space according to Tychonoff's  
theorem while taking it on a pair of sets returns a set of ordered pairs when taking the Cartesian  
form of this operation. A ring whose nonzero elements form an Abelian group under this  
operation is called a field. This operation doesn't have inverses for the integers, but does for the  
rational numbers. For 10 points, name this operation that can be viewed as repeated addition.  
ANSWER:  product  [or  multiplying ; or Cartesian  product ; or direct  product ]  
16. A woman in this play proclaims, \"I shall take this pencil for your memory!\" after her love  
interest cries, \"E finita la commedia!\" in the final act. In Act 3 of this play, a woman is told to  
fall in love with a water-sprite and subsequently asks about a cartogram showing deforestation to  
probe another character's feelings for Sonya. The title character of this play surrenders a bottle of  
morphine he stole for a suicide attempt. A subplot in this play concerns Dr. Astrov's love for the  
married woman Yelena. After realizing that the professor whose household he managed for years  
is a fraud, the title character of this play attempts to kill Alexander Serebryakov. For 10 points,  
name this Anton Chekhov play about Ivan Voynitsky.  
ANSWER:  Uncle Vanya 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 TOSSUPS  
17. This man concluded the Treaty of Deogaon, which made British territory continuous between  
Calcutta and Madras. This man was frequently consulted by government officials at his home at  
Apsley House, which thus became known as No. 1 London. This man engaged in a duel with Sir  
Christopher Hatton, and he responded to the threat of the publication of the courtesan Harriette  
Wilson's memoirs with the retort, “Publish and be damned.” Following William IV's pledge to  
create new peers, this man abstained from blocking the Reform Bill of 1832. Earlier in his  
career, he led his troops to victory at the Battle of Salamanca during the Peninsular War. For 10  
points, name this British commander during the Battle of Waterloo who was nicknamed the  
“Iron Duke.”  
ANSWER: Arthur  Wellesley  [or the Duke of  Wellington ]  
18. One story from this myth system relates how a woman allowed her caterpillar husband to  
suck her blood every night. Children who wander off alone along a shore may be taken by a  
creature called the Qalupalik from this mythology. According to this mythology, the energy that  
drives life is called Sila. One of its gods, Anguta, found his daughter had married a bird and tried  
to take her back. However, after a storm created by the bird led him to throw his daughter  
overboard, that god from this mythology was forced to chop off her fingers when she tried to  
hold on, and the severed fingers turned into seals and walruses. For 10 points, identify this myth  
system which has the sea goddess Sedna and is found in the Arctic populations of North  
America.  
ANSWER:  Inuit  mythology [prompt on  Eskimo  mythology]  
19. In a 2012 speech, this person proclaimed that \"since World War II,\" the United States has  
stood for \"free peoples and free markets.\" That speech ended with this speaker recalling being  
told that even if she could not have a Woolworth's hamburger, she could be President someday.  
Pat Dye said \"to understand football, you've got to play with your hand in the dirt,\" when  
criticizing this woman's appointment to the College Football Playoff selection committee. Drop- 
Dropbox.com has organized a boycott against Dropbox because of her appointment to the  
company's board of directors. She recently declined to speak at the commencement ceremony for  
Rutgers University when students protested her connections to the George W. Bush  
administration. For 10 points, name this first female African-American Secretary of State.  
ANSWER: Condoleezza  Rice   
20. A reaction catalyzed by this enzyme forms an endoperoxide that spontaneously hydrates, is  
cleaved into 2-phosphoglycolate, and eventually forms serine. This enzyme is regulated by  
CA1P, a transition state analog synthesized by its namesake activase. This enzyme is only active  
at high pHs and requires a magnesium cation cofactor to coordinate an intermediate carbamate. It  
has an extremely low turnover number of 3 inverse-seconds. 3-phosphoglycerate is a product of  
one of its reactions. This enzyme, which is present in mesophyll but not bundle-sheath cells in  
C4 plants, can catalyze photorespiration at low carbon dioxide levels. It makes up the majority of  
protein leaves. For 10 points, name this most abundant protein on Earth, which is vital for the  
Calvin Cycle.  
ANSWER:  RuBisCo  [or  ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase /oxygenase] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 TOSSUPS  
21. The grandfather of Lord Byron, John Byron, lost a battle off the coast of this country to  
Charles Hector, comte d'Estaing. One prime minister of this country was arrested by Bernard  
Coard, escaped, attempted to regain control of the government, and was captured and executed  
all in a single day. Prime Minister Eric Gairy, who had led the country from its 1974  
independence from Britain, was ousted by Maurice Bishop in this country, the leader of the New  
Jewel Movement. The safety of a medical school attended by 800 students was the supposed  
grounds for one campaign in this country. For 10 points, name this island country which was the  
target of the 1983 Operation Urgent Fury, authorized by Ronald Reagan.  
ANSWER:  Grenada  [do not accept  Granada ]  
22. The BepiColombo craft will test one hypothesis about the formation of this body. That  
hypothesis has to account for the fact that this body's core is unusually iron-rich, which explains  
its dipolar magnetic field. A ring of lava eruption remnants surrounds the Caloris basin on this  
structure, which lies antipodal to a patch of \"weird terrain\". Mariner 10 performed a flyboy of  
this body, which is currently orbited by the MESSENGER probe. This body has the largest  
orbital eccentricity and smallest tilt of all objects in its class, and it rotates three times for every  
two revolutions. The perihelion shift of this object by around 40 arcseconds per year matches the  
predictions of general relativity. For 10 points, name this planet, the closest to the sun.  
ANSWER:  Mercury   
23. In this novel, a character relates how the protagonist replaced two million fake rubles with  
two million real rubles in order to avoid arrest. During a town hall meeting, the protagonist of  
this novel is supposed to be Napoleon in disguise, and also thought to be a one-armed, one- 
legged former soldier named Captain Kopeikin. The protagonist of this novel is rumored to have  
attempted to kidnap the Governor of N.'s daughter. That rumor in this novel is spread by the liar  
Nozdryov. Petrushka and Selifan help the protagonist of this novel in his dealings with the  
landowners Sobakevich and Manilov. For 10 points, name this Nikolai Gogol novel in which  
Chichikov attempts to buy deceased serfs.  
ANSWER:  Dead Souls  [or  Myortvye dushi ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 BONUSES  
1. This man lusted after Hera, so the chief god made a cloud in the shape of Hera and tricked this  
man into having sex with it. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this villain from Greek mythology, who ends up being expelled from Olympus and  
bound to a winged fiery wheel.  
ANSWER:  Ixion   
[10] Ixion's sexual tryst with the cloud ends up creating this race of creatures with the head,  
arms, and torso of a human and the body and legs of a horse.  
ANSWER:  Centaurs   
[10] Ixion was already on thin ice having thrown Deioneus, a man with this relation to him, onto  
a bed of burning coals and wood. Ixion thus became the first kin-slayer in Greek mythology.  
ANSWER: his  father-in-law  [or his  wife's father ; prompt on  father ]  
2. In the title location of this story, the houses do not have windows. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this story in which a mountaineer discovers the title location and realizes he can  
effectively be the king. He falls in love with Medina-Sarote, but the village elders demand he  
undergo an operation giving him a physical disability.  
ANSWER: \" Country of the Blind \"  
[10] \"Country of the Blind\" is by this British author of such science fiction novels as  The  
Invisible Man  and  The Time Machine.   
ANSWER: H. G.  Wells   
[10] Wells's novel  Tono-Bungay  is about George Ponderevo, a salesman for the title substance,  
which is this type of produce. George believes it to be a swindle.  
ANSWER: patent  medicine  [or  drug ; or obvious equivalents]  
3. The Big Four of these institutions included Mitsui, Sumitomo, and Yasuda. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name these massive family owned conglomerates that dominated the industry of Japan until  
World War II.  
ANSWER:  zaibatsu   
[10] This was the last of the Big Four zaibatsu. During World War II it manufactured the A6M,  
better known as the “Zero.”  
ANSWER:  Mitsubishi   
[10] The zaibatsu became a factor in this period of Japanese modernization, which occurred after  
the fall of the Tokugawa Shogunate.  
ANSWER:  Meiji  restoration  
4. This novel ends with the death of the formerly villainous Mrs. Crayton, which teaches us that  
vice only leads to \"misery and shame.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 1794 sentimental novel by Susanna Rowson. The title character is seduced by  
Montraville and dies after giving birth to Lucy in a scene that moved many early American  
readers.  
ANSWER:  Charlotte Temple   
[10] Charlotte, who is originally from England, dies in this American city. In J.D. Salinger's  The  
Catcher in the Rye,  Holden takes a train to this city and goes to the Museum of Natural History  
there.  
ANSWER:  New York  City 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 BONUSES  
[10] The reader of 1790s American literature may find more enjoyment in this author's Gothic  
novel  Wieland.   
ANSWER: Charles Brockden  Brown   
5. This country is home to Mount Kinabalu. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this country of Southeast Asia which is divided in half by the South China Sea.  
ANSWER:  Malaysia   
[10] This city, the largest and the capital of Malaysia, is home to the Menara Telekom Building  
and Sultan Abdul Samad Building.  
ANSWER:  Kuala Lumpur   
[10] A namesake strait separates this Malaysian state from Singapore. The southernmost state of  
the peninsular portion of Malaysia, it corresponds to a former sultanate of the same name.  
ANSWER:  Johor   
6. This technique is classically used to define the factorial function. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this technique in which a function calls itself. Relations of this type are used to define  
a sequence in terms of its previous terms.  
ANSWER:  recursion   
[10] Recursion is used to solve this problem, in which there's a series of pegs with rings of  
decreasing size and you have to move the rings from one end to the other.  
ANSWER:  Towers of Hanoi   
[10] One way of speeding up a recursive function is to use one of these functions, which calls an  
auxiliary function without recursing itself.  
ANSWER:  wrapper  function  
7. James Ensor painted himself as Christ in a modern rendition of this scene titled  Christ and the  
Critics.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this common scene that follows the Flagellation and Crowning of Christ in painting  
cycles depicting the Passion. In these scenes, Jesus is paraded around by Pilate, who yells the  
title mocking cry.  
ANSWER:  Ecce Homo  [or  Behold the Man ]  
[10] \"Speech bubbles\" in the form of Gothic inscriptions appear above the heads of Pilate and the  
mob in this artist's first rendition of  Ecce Homo.  He also painted  The Garden of Earthly Delights.   
ANSWER: Hieronymous  Bosch  [or Jheronimus van  Aken ]  
[10] In 2012, an  Ecce Homo  fresco by the painter Elias Garcia Martinez gained notoriety when it  
was \"restored\" by an untrained octogenerian woman, resulting in Christ resembling this type of  
animal. The painting received an unofficial punning retronym.  
ANSWER:  monkey  [or  primate ; or  Ecce  Mono ]  
8. The Latin text in John Rutter's piece of this kind is interspersed with the English poem \"Of a  
Rose, a Lovely Rose.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this setting of a twelve-movement composition whose sixth and seventh movements  
are \"Et misericordia\" and \"Fecit potentiam,\" and which was written for Christmas in 1723.  
ANSWER:  Magnificat   
[10] This man, known for solo keyboard pieces like the  Solfeggieto  and his oratorio  The  
Israelites in the Desert,  composed a setting of the  Magnificat  just like his father did. 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 BONUSES  
ANSWER:  arl Philip Emanuel  C Bach  [prompt on  Bach ]  
[10] CPE Bach is often regarded as the bridge between the Baroque period and this period of  
Western music, which was exemplified by Mozart and Haydn.  
ANSWER:  Classical  period  
9. The constitutively active “I” gene in this system codes for its namesake repressor, and this  
system can be modulated by cyclic AMP activation of the CAP protein. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this set of bacterial genes that are coordinately regulated, and are responsible for  
cleaving their namesake disaccharide into glucose and galactose.  
ANSWER:  lac  operon  
[10] The lac operon was characterized by Jacob and Monod in this common species of laboratory  
bacterium, whose O157:H7 subtype can cause kidney failure and hemorrhagic diarrhea.  
ANSWER:  E. coli   
[10] Along with beta-galactosidase and transacetylase, the lac operon also codes for this protein,  
which is a symporter that brings lactose into the cell.  
ANSWER: lactose  permease   
10. Jean Froissart and Francois Guizot wrote accounts of these events, which rose from  
discontent with taxation and France’s losses in the Hundred Years’ War. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this series of peasant rebellions in France during the fourteenth century, led by  
Guillarme Cale. It lent its name to later, similar rebellions.  
ANSWER:  Jacquerie   
[10] During the time of the Jacquerie, the power struggle to rule France was being won by this  
group, led by Etienne Marcel, as it had the power to levy taxes. It was famously reconvened in  
1789.  
ANSWER:  Estates-General   
[10] The king of Navarre at the time, who allied with the Estates-General and was known as “the  
Bad,” had this name. Kings of France who had this regnal name include ones nicknamed“the  
Fat” and “the Bald.”  
ANSWER:  Charles   
11. The penultimate act of this opera includes a set of Oriental dances, consisting of an \"Arabian  
Dance,\" a \"Persian Dance,\" and the pan-ethnic lezginka. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Glinka opera that uses a dissonant whole tone scale to represent the magic cast by  
the sorcerer Chernomor, who aims to separate the title pair of lovers of a fairy tale epic by  
Pushkin.  
ANSWER:  Ruslan and Lyudmila  [or  Ruslan i Lyudmila ]  
[10] This character from  Ruslan and Lyudmila  conceals a cursed sword that was destined to kill  
him and his brother Chernomor. Naturally, Ruslan spears this character and takes the sword with  
him.  
ANSWER: severed  head  of a giant  
[10] Glinka's other major opera,  A Life for the Tsar,  broke ground by using quintuple meter in a  
musical number of this kind. A better-known operatic excerpt of this kind is sung by women  
accompanying Elsa in  Lohengrin,  and is often used with a march from Mendelssohn's incidental  
music for  A Midsummer Night's Dream.   
ANSWER:  bridal  chorus [or  wedding  march; or equivalent answers such as  marriage  song] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 BONUSES  
12. Identify some things about the NFPA safety diamond, for 10 points each.  
[10] The red part of the diamond indicates the danger of ignition while heating, which is  
measured by this value. Another way of defining this value is the lowest temperature at which a  
chemical may catch fire.  
ANSWER:  flash point   
[10] The section with this color indicates the reactivity of the compound, or how likely it will  
detonate when exposed to pressure, or sometimes, water.  
ANSWER:  yellow   
[10] This very common chemical quickly reacts with moisture on the skin and in the body to  
form an extremely strong base, giving it a 3 in the blue health hazard section. Stimulated  
emission of this compound was the basis for the first maser.  
ANSWER:  ammonia   
13. During his Congressional campaign, this man described how he refused to accept a paycheck  
from the Santa Fe Railroad Company, unlike two colleagues at his law firm. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 20th century Congressman who supported the construction of Route 66 by saying  
that it was necessary to connect the Frost Belt with the Sun Belt. He famously wore cowboy gear  
back at his district in Texas.  
ANSWER: Sam  Rayburn  [or Samuel Taliaferro  Rayburn ]  
[10] Sam Rayburn is best known as the longest holder of this position, at 17 years. Other  
powerful holders of this position included Tip O'Neill and Newt Gingrich.  
ANSWER:  Speaker of the House  of Representatives [or  Speaker of the United States House  
of Representatives ; prompt on  Speaker ]  
[10] This Tennessee politician served very briefly as Speaker of the House during the Jackson  
presidency and as William Henry Harrison's Secretary of War, but is best known as candidate of  
the Constitutional Union party in the 1860 election.  
ANSWER: John  Bell   
14. This section of a larger work features suicide victims tormented by harpies. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this section from Dante's  Divine Comedy  which describes the nine circles of hell.  
ANSWER:  Inferno   
[10] In the second circle, Dante encounters this lusty woman, who was murdered by her husband  
Giovanni after committing adultery with Giovanni's brother.  
ANSWER:  Francesca  da Rimini [or  da Rimini ]  
[10] Dante sees this former teacher of his in the third ring of the seventh circle. Dante respects  
and thanks this man, who was apparently placed in the circle for being a sodomite.  
ANSWER:  Brunetto  Latini [or Brunetto  Latini ]  
15. This man's popular works include \"Hark! the Herald Angels Sing\" and \"O for a Thousand  
Tongues to Sing.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this man who wrote thousands of hymns for a fledgling church founded by his  
brother.  
ANSWER:  harles  C Wesley  [prompt on  Wesley ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 BONUSES  
[10] Charles Wesley and his brother John were leaders of this Christian denomination, which  
prioritized careful Bible study and open air preaching.  
ANSWER:  Methodism  [or  Methodist ]  
[10] Phillis Wheatley memorialized this early leader of the Methodist movement. This leader of  
the First Great Awakening looked like a giant baby.  
ANSWER: George  Whitefield   
16. An urban legend about this king states he had a tattoo on his chest that read, \"Death to  
Kings!\" For 10 points each,  
[10] Identify this man who founded a dynasty that succeeded the House of Holstein-Gottorp in  
Sweden.  
ANSWER:  Charles XIV  of Sweden [or Jean-Baptiste  Bernadotte ]  
[10] Bernadotte held the title of \"Marshall of the Empire\" under this emperor of France, who  
reformed his nation’s legal system with his namesake \"code.\"  
ANSWER:  Napoleon  Bonaparte  I  [accept either underlined portion]  
[10] Bernadotte became Crown Prince thanks to a vote from this unicameral legislative body in  
Sweden, whose current 349 members are led by Speaker Per Westerberg.  
ANSWER:  riksdag en  
17. This character's death, foreseen by an astrologer to occur at the hand of Whitmore, is  
hastened when he is captured at sea and boasts of his high birth to his captors. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Identify this character who is exiled for his part in ordering the murder of Gloucester. In a  
famous scene, his severed head is cradled by his lover Margaret, whom he had captured on a  
battlefield.  
ANSWER: William de la Pole, 1st Duke of  Suffolk   
[10] Suffolk appears in the first two plays in a trilogy about this king. The second part of this  
trilogy has the largest cast of all of Shakespeare's plays.  
ANSWER:  Henry VI  [prompt on  Henry ]  
[10] The  Henry VI  plays are examples of this type of play by Shakespeare, published alongside  
his tragedies and comedies in the  First Folio.   
ANSWER:  histories  [or  history  plays]  
18. Current leads the voltage for these components. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this circuit component, whose simplest variety consists of a pair of parallel plates  
with a dielectric sandwiched between them.  
ANSWER:  capacitor   
[10] Subjecting a capacitor to an increasing electric field is an easy way of deriving this quantity,  
symbolized J. This quantity is equal to permittivity times E plus the polarization vector.  
ANSWER:  displacement  current  
[10] Ampere’s law can also be written as the line integral of this quantity around a loop equals  
the free current. This letter denotes a quantity equal to the B-field over the permeability of free  
space all minus the magnetization.  
ANSWER:  -field  H 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 9 BONUSES  
19. This person is the subject of an argument in which the author assumes that he is not gouging  
the owners and that contracts last for one year. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this figure who is the subject of a philosophical argument which states that an  
unequal distribution of wealth can still be considered \"fair\" if it is entered into with willing  
transfers.  
ANSWER: Wilt  Chamberlain  [or  Wilt the Stilt ]  
[10] The Wilt Chamberlain argument appears in this libertarian tome by Robert Nozick, which is  
a takedown of John Rawls's  A Theory of Justice.   
ANSWER:  Anarchy, State, and Utopia   
[10] Nozick’s  Philosophical Explanations  introduced his \"truth-tracking\" theory of this concept.  
The study of this concept is called epistemology.  
ANSWER:  knowledge   
20. This book coined the term \"universe-maintenance,\" which refers to processes taken by users  
of an outdated symbolic universe becomes useless. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this landmark text by Peter Berger and Thomas Luckmann, which claims that groups  
that interact socially create mental images of other groups' actions, leading to the groups'  
fulfilling the roles the others imagine of them.  
ANSWER:  The  Social Construction of Reality   
[10]  The Social Construction of Reality  claims that this process results in the creation of specific  
knowledge. A pin factory is used to illustrate this concept in  The Wealth of Nations.   
ANSWER:  division of labor   
[10] Emile Durkheim’s  The Division of Labor in Society  defines this term, which is integration  
within a society brought about by homogenous education, lifestyle, and work. It is a hallmark of  
more traditional societies.  
ANSWER:  mechanical solidarity   
21. This woman co-composed the American Indian opera  The Sun Dance.  For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Dakota author and political activist. She is best known for her autobiographical  
series of stories collected in  American Indian Stories,  such as \"The School Days of an Indian  
Girl,\" in which she describes having her hair cut at an Indian school.  
ANSWER:  Zitkala-Sa  [or Gertrude Simmons  Bonnin ]  
[10] Zitkala-Sa was published in the  Atlantic Monthly,  a distinguished cultural magazine whose  
first editor, back in 1857, was this author. This man created \"Birdofredum Sawin\" in his  The  
Biglow Papers.   
ANSWER: James Russell  Lowell   
[10] Lowell took two days to write a poem in memory of those killed in the Civil War, but was  
overshadowed at the ceremony by this Boston poet, the author of \"Old Ironsides,\" \"The  
Chambered Nautilus,\" and  The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table.   
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell  Holmes  Sr. 
