This is page 1 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2015  
Round 4  
First Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. The protagonist of this story dreams about performing an operation on a woman and resolving  
to continue even when the knife digs all the way to her heart. In this story, the protagonist’s wife,  
Georgiana, dies after drinking a potion he prepares to remove a prominent feature. For 10 points,  
name this short story about the scientist Aylmer (ALE-mur), a story by Nathaniel Hawthorne  
titled for the red defect on Georgiana’s cheek.  
ANSWER: “The  Birth-Mark ”  
2. Backcrossing is impossible when this process results in allopolyploidy (AA-loh-PAH-lee- 
ploid-ee). This process can occur in namesake “zones” during speciation. No interordinal  
examples of this process are known, and very rare interfamilial examples are observed between  
guinea fowl and chickens. Unlike most other products of this reproductive process such as the  
hinny and zedonk, the beefalo is not sterile. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which two  
species breed and produce offspring such as ligers and mules.  
ANSWER:  hybrid ization [prompt on  crossing ; prompt on  heterozygote ]  
3. In 2012, this country’s oppressed Islamic minority, the Rohingya (roh-HING-yuh), rioted in  
its Rakhine (raa-KEEN) state. A group known as “Merrill’s Marauders” fought during World  
War II in this country, whose namesake “road” helped supply China. U (OO) Thant was a United  
Nations Secretary-General from this country. Another politician from this country was placed  
under house arrest for opposing its military junta, which relocated its capital from Yangon to  
Naypyidaw. For 10 points, name this country, the home of Aung (ONG) San Suu Kyi.  
ANSWER:  Burma  [or Republic of the Union of  Myanmar ]  
4. Pablo de Sarasate (sah-rah-SAH-tay) refused to play a piece of this kind because it gave a  
prominent part to the oboe. Beethoven’s D major piece in this genre begins with four timpani  
beats. A set of Baroque pieces of this type depict scenes such as a sleeping dog in spring and  
raindrops during winter, in movements such as “L’inverno” and “La primavera.” For 10 points,  
name this type of piece, exemplified by Antonio Vivaldi’s  The Four Seasons , which is scored for  
the smallest string instrument and orchestra.  
ANSWER:  violin concerto  [prompt on  concerto ]  
5. This actress played aviator Franny Cook in  Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow . The  
actress provided the voice of Master Tigress in the  Kung Fu Panda  film series, and also appeared  
as Grendel’s mother in the 2007 motion capture adaptation of  Beowulf . This actress played Lara  
Croft in the  Tomb Raider  film series and directed the 2014 film  Unbroken . For 10 points, name  
this actress, who played Maleficent in a 2014 reimagining of  Sleeping Beauty .  
ANSWER: Angelina  Jolie  [or Angelina Jolie  Voight ] 
This is page 2 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. The partition coefficient is the relative difference between two values for this property in a  
liquid-liquid extraction. For a binary ionic compound, this quantity equals the square root of its  
namesake product constant. Addition of a common ion diminishes this property. According to  
Henry’s Law, this property is proportional to partial pressure of a gas. A substance which lacks  
this property is usually written with a downward arrow in chemical reactions, indicating  
precipitation. For 10 points, name this property in which one compound dissolves in another.  
ANSWER:  solubility  [or word forms; or  dissolving  until it is read; prompt on  concentration  or  
molarity ]  
7. This artist included the wire-and-cloth  Fanni, the Belly Dancer  in his namesake animatronic  
“circus.” This man’s grandfather sculpted the statue of William Penn on top of Philadelphia City  
Hall. He created the red painted-steel  Flamingo  for Chicago’s Federal Plaza. For the main  
stairwell of New York City’s MoMA, he suspended one of his earliest examples of kinetic  
sculpture, the wire-and-steel  Lobster Trap and Fish Tail . For 10 points, name this American  
sculptor of stabiles and mobiles.  
ANSWER: Alexander  Calder  [or Sandy  Calder ]  
8. For whole numbers, the gamma function equals this other function. This function appears in  
the denominator of the probability mass function for the Poisson (pwuh-SAHN) distribution and  
in the denominator of terms in a Taylor series. This operation on “N minus 1,” times N, equals  
this operation on N. The number of permutations of a set of N distinct objects is equal to this  
operation on N. For 10 points, name this operation denoted by an exclamation point, which is the  
product of all whole numbers less than or equal to some number.  
ANSWER:  factorial   
9. The Arabic diacritic shadda (SHAH-duh) is used to indicate when these elements are doubled,  
and in Japanese the sokuon represents elongation of these units. These elements can’t be  
geminated when they are affricates (AFF-ruh-kits). Tremulants are a kind of the liquid type of  
these elements. Sibilants are a subtype of the fricative kind of these linguistic units. In the  
English written alphabet, there are eighteen to twenty of these elements, depending on the  
behavior of the letters “w” and “y.” For 10 points, name these speech sounds that are not vowels.  
ANSWER:  consonant s  
10. In a story by this author, Doctor Rabin’s mental deterioration leads to his death in ward  
number six. He wrote about Dmitri Gurov’s affair with the “Lady with a Lapdog.” In a play by  
this author, Solyony (sul-YAH-nee) and Tuzenbach fight for the love of Irina. This playwright  
created Konstantin Treplyov (TREH-pul-yof), who kills himself after shooting a bird. Another of  
his plays concludes with the destruction of a portion of the Ranevskaya (rah-NEV-sky-uh) estate.  
For 10 points, name this Russian playwright of  The Seagull  and  The Cherry Orchard.   
ANSWER: Anton  Chekhov  [Anton Pavlovich  Chekhov ] 
This is page 3 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. These people were targeted by members of the Knights of Labor in the Rock Springs  
Massacre. The Magnuson Act repealed legislation that targeted these people, and the Burlingame  
Treaty encouraged these people to settle in the United States. These people, who worked  
extensively on the Central Pacific Railroad, had their immigration privileges restricted by  
Chester A. Arthur, who signed their namesake “Exclusion” Act into law. For 10 points, name  
these people who emigrated from a large East Asian country.  
ANSWER:  Chinese -Americans  
12. In a novel set in this country, Bam and Maureen Smales flee their home city in a vehicle  
called a bakkie (BAH-kee). In another novel set here, Arthur Jarvis, the son of a businessman, is  
murdered by Absalom. The title character of a novel set in this country is a servant named July.  
In this country, Reverend Stephen Kumalo heads to the capital to find his son. For 10 points,  
name this country, the setting of books such as Alan Paton’s  Cry, the Beloved Country , which  
prominently features apartheid as a theme.  
ANSWER:  South Africa   
13. This king used the Blowing Stone to summon troops to the Battle of Ashdown. This ruler  
translated Pope Gregory’s  Pastoral Care  and created a legal code called the  Doom Book . In the  
Treaty of Wedmore, this king established Watling Street as a boundary with the Danelaw  
(DAIN-law) after defeating Guthrum at the Battle of Edington. For 10 points, name this ruler of  
Wessex who became the first king of England and the only one known as “the Great.”  
ANSWER:  Alfred  the Great  
14. Einstein notation is used to implicitly perform this operation over pairs of repeated indices.  
One of the axioms of vector spaces is that applying this operation to two vectors always yields a  
third vector. A capital sigma sometimes represents the repeated application of this operation to  
form an infinite series. As a child, Gauss apocryphally found a way to do this operation quickly  
on the numbers 1 through 100. When applied to fractions, it requires finding a common  
denominator. For 10 points, name this operation which, when applied to 2 and 3, gives 5.  
ANSWER:  addition  [or  summation ; or  plus ]  
15. This person wrote a letter instructing its addressee to accept the runaway slave Onesimus  
(oh-NEE-see-mus) as a “dear brother.” He stressed the importance of donning the “full armor of  
God” and explained that “the wages of sin is death.” This apostle wrote that “love is patient, love  
is kind” in his first letter to the people of Corinth. This apostle changed his name from Saul after  
he was blinded on his way to Damascus. For 10 points, name this author of epistles such as  
Romans.  
ANSWER:  Paul  [or  Saul  until it is read] 
This is page 4 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 4  
Directed Round   
1A. What is the term for the process in which a substance transitions directly from a solid to a  
gas without becoming a liquid?  
ANSWER:  sublimation  [or word forms]  
1B. What English poet, the sister of a pre-Raphaelite painter, wrote the narrative poem “Goblin  
Market”?  
ANSWER:  hristina  C Rossetti  [prompt on  Rossetti ]  
2A. What mayor of West Berlin and member of the SPD launched the policy of Ostpolitik (OST- 
”politic”) during his time as chancellor of West Germany?  
ANSWER: Willy  Brandt   
2B. What square matrix operation is defined for the 2-by-2 matrix “a b, c d” as “a d minus b c”?  
ANSWER:  determinant   
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. The smallest side of a triangle is 3 inches long.  
Another side is 5 inches long. Give the interval in which the length of the third side must lie.  
ANSWER:  between 3 and 8  inches [do not accept “between 2 and 8 inches”]  
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the square root of 64 x to the sixth y to the  
fourth z to the tenth?  
ANSWER:  8 x cubed y squared z to the fifth   
4A. What Hindu festival, celebrated in spring, begins with a bonfire and features participants  
spraying each other with colors?  
ANSWER:  Holi   
4B. What name refers to the region of grassland and savanna that lies immediately south of the  
Sahara Desert?  
ANSWER: the  Sahel   
5A. What scientist names the force exerted on a charge by electric and magnetic fields?  
ANSWER: Hendrik  Lorentz  [Hendrik Antoon  Lorentz ]  
5B. Sculptures such as  Laocoon  (lay-AH-coh-on)  and his Sons  and the  Winged Victory of  
Samothrace  (SAH-moh-thrace) were produced in what cosmopolitan period of Greek art, which  
followed the Classical period?  
ANSWER:  Hellenistic  period 
This is page 5 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6A. What Jewish American author wrote such novels as  American Pastoral  and  Portnoy’s  
Complaint ?  
ANSWER: Philip  Roth   
6B. In what Harold Pinter play do the hitmen Ben and Gus receive instructions to kill one  
another through the title contraption?  
ANSWER:  The  Dumb Waiter   
7A. Name the restaurant which introduced a “never-ending pasta pass” in September 2014 to go  
along with its unlimited breadsticks and soup.  
ANSWER:  Olive Garden   
7B. Provide the English translation for the feeling that a German person has if he is “wutend,”  
(VOO-tend) a French person has if he is “fache” (FAHSH) or a Spanish person has if he feels  
“enojado” (ey-noh-HA-doh).  
ANSWER:  angry   
8A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Points A and B on circle O are chosen such that  
angle AOB measures 60 degrees. The lines tangent to circle O at points A and B intersect at  
point C. If circle O has a radius of 3 units, what is the perimeter of quadrilateral OACB? Express  
your answer in simplest radical form.  
ANSWER:  6 plus 2  times the square  root  of   [or  3 6 plus 2  times  rad ical  ]  3 
8B. This is a 30-second calculation question. If cosine to the fourth of theta minus sine to the  
fourth of theta equals negative one-third, then what is cosine of two theta?  
ANSWER:  -1/3  [or  negative one-third ]  
9A. What kind of poem or stanza is composed of three lines and may or may not follow the same  
rhyming scheme?  
ANSWER:  tercet  [or  terza rima ; or  tristich ]  
9B. What Arizona Republican Presidential candidate was criticized for his willingness to use  
nuclear weapons in the 1964 “Daisy” political advertisement?  
ANSWER: Barry  Goldwater  [Barry Morris  Goldwater ]  
10A. What series of fortifications, named for the French Minister of War who ordered their  
construction, were bypassed by Germany marching through Belgium instead in 1940?  
ANSWER:  Maginot Line   
10B. What country’s president, Blaise Compaore (com-POW-ray), was removed from power in  
October 2014 after he attempted to extend term limits to maintain his hold on the presidency?  
ANSWER:  Burkina Faso 
This is page 6 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 4  
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. This island’s sulfur-rich Ijen (IH-jen) region is home to a crater that emits blue flames. Eugene  
Dubois (doo-BWAH) first discovered  Homo erectus  fossils on this island. A Buddhist temple  
named Borobudur (BORE-uh-buh-door) is located near this island’s center. This island, whose  
major cities include Surabaya (sur-uh-BUY-uh), is separated by the Sunda Strait from Sumatra  
(soo-MAH-truh). For 10 points, name this most populous island in the world, an Indonesian  
island home to Jakarta and known for coffee production.  
ANSWER:  Java   
2. In a speech given in Canada, this person said “Some chicken! Some neck!” This person’s  
“Sinews of Peace” speech coined term for a border extending from “Stettin to Trieste” (TREE- 
est). He declared “Never was so much owed by so many to so few” and once promised that he  
had “nothing to offer but blood, toils, sweat, and tears.” Other speeches by this leader include the  
lines “We shall fight them on the Beaches” and “This was their finest hour.” For 10 points, name  
this prime minister who led Britain during World War II.  
ANSWER: Winston  Churchill  [Winston Leonard Spencer- Churchill ]  
3. A play about this man ends with the declaration that “we cannot call a mortal being happy”  
until he has died. This character is told that a plague in his home kingdom is due to an  
unpunished murderer. He erroneously believes himself to be the son of Polybus. This man blinds  
himself after he realizes he murdered Laius (LAI-us). He dies at Colonus (cuh-LOH-nus),  
leaving behind his daughter Antigone (an-TIG-uh-nee). For 10 points, name this king of Thebes  
(THEEBZ) who kills his father, marries his mother Jocasta, and stars in two plays by Sophocles.  
ANSWER:  Oedipus   
4. This man pushed the limits of 78 RPM records with his long piece “Creole Rhapsody.” This  
musician attempted to distill the black American experience into a jazz symphony titled  Black,  
Brown, and Beige.  This man made his career playing white audiences at the Cotton Club, where  
he met his wife Mildred Dixon. This man’s signature piece was a standard composed by his  
collaborator Billy Strayhorn, whose title references a New York City subway line. For 10 points,  
name this pianist, known for his renditions of “Mood Indigo” and “Take the “A” Train.”  
ANSWER: Duke  Ellington  [or Edward Kennedy  Ellington ] 
This is page 7 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5. This golfer carried a pager with him during the 1999 U.S. Open in case his wife went into  
labor. This golfer beat Ernie Els by one stroke to win the 2004 Masters. This golfer criticized  
U.S. captain Tom Watson’s leadership style after he and partner Keegan Bradley were held out  
of both Saturday matches of the 2014 Ryder Cup. At the 2013 British Open, this golfer rallied  
from five strokes back on Sunday to win the tournament. For 10 points, name this five-time  
major tournament champion, who is nicknamed “Lefty.”  
ANSWER: Phil  Mickelson  [Philip Alfred  Mickelson ]  
6. Some of these agents contain excipients (eck-SIP-ee-ents) that can cause anaphylaxis (AA- 
nuh-fuh-LACK-sis) in people with egg allergies. These materials can be enhanced with  
adjuvants (AA-joo-vunts). BCG is an example of the attenuated form of these agents. Their  
effectiveness was first shown when Edward Jenner noted a link between cowpox infection and  
resistance to smallpox. One of these substances was developed by Jonas Salk. For 10 points,  
name these agents found in booster shots that stimulate immunity to diseases such as polio.  
ANSWER:  vaccine s  
7. This man personally tortured participants in a revolt that was put down by Patrick Gordon.  
This ruler established the nine collegia and organized his court with the Table of Ranks. As a  
boy, he directed mock battles with his toy army and was controlled by his half-sister Sophia. He  
worked in a shipyard while leading his Grand Embassy to the West, after which he instituted a  
beard tax on his country’s boyars. For 10 points, name this reforming tsar known as the “Great.”  
ANSWER:  Peter  the  Great  [or  Peter I ; or  Peter  after “Great” is read; prompt on Peter until  
“Great” is read]  
8. Using an appropriate transformation, one can define physical laws to be the same in reference  
frames named for this property. In general relativity, the equivalence principle links the notion of  
gravitational mass and mass named for this property. The rotational analogue of mass is named  
after the moment of this property. It is described by Newton’s first law, which states that an  
object will maintain a given velocity unless acted on by an external force. For 10 points, name  
this property that causes objects to resist changes in motion.  
ANSWER:  inertia   
9. This man remarked in 2009 that he wouldn’t “go anywhere in confined places right now,”  
prompting an apology from Robert Gibbs. While speaking at Harvard, he made a profane joke  
about his job while talking to a student council member. This politician apologized in 2014 for  
suggesting that Turkey was the U.S.’s “biggest problem” in regards to the Syrian Civil War, one  
of many gaffes possibly preventing him from receiving the Democratic Presidential nomination  
in 2016. For 10 points, name the current Vice-President of the United States.  
ANSWER: Joe  Biden  [Joseph Robinette  Biden , Jr.] 
This is page 8 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
10. A man in this short story passes by a tulip plant which is said to be haunted by the ghost of  
Revolutionary War traitor John André. Another character in this story is rumored to be a Hessian  
(HESH-in) soldier who was hit by a cannonball in a nameless battle of the Revolution. The  
protagonist of this story wishes to marry Katrina Van Tassel, but is scared out of town by Brom  
Bones. For 10 points, name this story about Ichabod Crane and the ghostly Headless Horseman,  
written by Washington Irving.  
ANSWER: “The  Legend of Sleepy Hollow ”  
11. This god hid with Thetis (THEE-tis) after being driven out of Thrace, leading him to trick  
Lycurgus (LYE-kur-gus) into butchering his son with shears after mistaking him for a patch of  
ivy. Followers of this god engaged in the sparagamos (spuh-RAH-guh-mos) ritual. Acoetes (aa- 
coh-EE-teez) warned a group of pirates not to kidnap this god, who turned the pirates into  
dolphins. This god was born after the true sight of Zeus incinerated his mother, Semele (SEH- 
muh-lee). For 10 points, name this final Olympian, the Greek god of wine.  
ANSWER:  Dionysus  [or  Bacchus  until “Zeus” is read]  
12. This city is home to a museum of regional art, the MALBA. During the 1970s and 80s,  
mothers organized in this city to protest the disappearance of their children, meeting on the Plaza  
de Mayo in front of this city’s presidential residence, the Casa Rosada (CAH-suh roh-SAH-duh).  
Residents of this city are called porteños (por-TANE-yohs), as this city once served as an  
important port for Europeans heading to South America. For 10 points, name this city, located on  
the Rio de la Plata across a bay from Montevideo, that is the capital of Argentina.  
ANSWER:  Buenos Aires   
13. The dot product of two vectors equals the product of their magnitudes times this function.  
Given two sides of a triangle and the angle between them, a law named for this function  
computes the length of the third side. Its reciprocal is the secant, and this function’s first zeroes  
are at “plus or minus pi over 2 radians.” This function appears in the denominator of the  
definition of tangent. For 10 points, name this trigonometric function equal to the length of the  
adjacent side over the hypotenuse.  
ANSWER:  cosine  [do not accept “sine”]  
14. Despite one of these things claiming to be unique, five thousand of these specific objects are  
found by a resident of Asteroid B-612. This item appears in the title of a novel narrated by Adso  
of Melk. Despite its vanity and goading, the title boy regrets leaving one of these things back  
home in Antoine de Saint-Exupery’s  The Little Prince.  A series of deaths are investigated by  
Franciscan friar William of Baskerville in a novel with this plant in its title. For 10 points, name  
this flower whose “name” titles a novel by Umberto Eco.  
ANSWER:  rose  [or  The Name of the  Rose ; prompt on  flower  until it is read] 
This is page 9 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
15. Near this colony, Thomas Morton’s Merrymount settlement held drunken parties under a  
giant maypole. Many residents of this colony had previously lived in Leiden (LYE-den). This  
colony is described in the text  Mourt’s Relation  and in the journal of its governor William  
Bradford. Miles Standish served as a military adviser for this colony, and it was also aided by  
King Massasoit (MAH-suh-SOY-it) and Squanto. For 10 points, name this colony which was  
governed by the Mayflower Compact and inhabited by the Pilgrims.  
ANSWER:  Plymouth  Bay Colony [or New  Plymouth ; do not accept “Massachusetts”] 
This is page 10 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 4  
Tiebreaker/replacement questions   
1. This symphony’s first movement opens in Adagio tempo with the unusual time signature 4/8.  
It’s not by Tchaikovsky, but this symphony’s “Allegro con fuoco” (FWO-coh) finale opens in  
the home key of E minor. In the second movement of this symphony, the main theme is  
introduced by an English horn solo. That theme from this symphony was later used for the  
melody of the song “Goin’ Home.” For 10 points, name this final symphony by Antonin Dvorak  
(duh-VOR-jack), which was inspired by folk music of America.  
ANSWER:  New World  Symphony  [or  From the New World ; or  Z noveho sveta ; or  Dvorak’s  
9 th symphony; or   or  9 ninth  after “Dvorak” is read]  
2. A quantity named for this scientist is equal to charge times h-bar over two times the rest mass.  
That quantity, which describes the magnetic moment of an electron, is known as his namesake  
“magneton” (MAG-nuh-tahn). This scientist, with Heisenberg, developed the Copenhagen  
interpretation of quantum mechanics, which theorizes that unobserved quantum particles  
simultaneously exist in all possible states. For 10 points, name this Danish physicist who  
proposed that electrons traveled in circular orbits around an atomic nucleus.  
ANSWER: Niels  Bohr  [Niels Henrik David  Bohr ]  
3. Several countries avoided participating in this war at the Nyon conference. After the outbreak  
of this war, 510 tons of gold were shipped to Moscow by the Negrin (nay-GRIN) government.  
The term “fifth column” was coined during this war, which American volunteers called the  
Abraham Lincoln Brigades participated in. In this war, the Carlist faction fought alongside the  
Falange (fuh-LONJ) party. The German Condor Legion bombed Guernica during this war. For  
10 points, name this conflict that led to the formation of Francisco Franco’s dictatorship.  
ANSWER:  Spanish Civil  War  
4. At the beginning of this poem, the speaker observes he had “abandoned the true way” in “the  
middle of life’s journey.” This poem’s speaker encounters a leopard, a lion, and a she-wolf who  
halts his ascent before he meets his literary idol. The narrator of this poem passes under a gate  
inscribed, “Abandon all hope, you who enter here,” and is led through nine circles of Hell by  
Virgil. For 10 points, name this first part of  The Divine Comedy  by Dante.  
ANSWER:  Inferno  [or  The Divine  Comedy  until it is read; or  La Divina  Commedia  until  
“Divine Comedy” is read] 
This is page 11 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 4 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5. This composer’s only piano concerto begins with a timpani roll that crescendos into a loud A  
minor chord played by the entire orchestra. “Wedding Day at Troldhaugen” is one of this  
composer’s  Lyric Pieces  for solo piano. This composer’s incidental music to a Henrik Ibsen play  
includes pieces such as “Anitra’s Dance” and “Morning Mood.” For 10 points, name this  
Norwegian composer whose incidental music to  Peer Gynt  includes “In the Hall of the Mountain  
King.”  
ANSWER: Edvard  Grieg  [Edvard Hagerup  Grieg ]  
What landform, which includes the Keweenaw (KEE-wuh-naw) Peninsula and is known for the  
distinctive accent of its residents, is separated from the rest of its state by the Straits of Mackinac  
(MAH-kin-aw)?  
ANSWER:  Upper Peninsula  of Michigan  
This is a calculation question. Suppose that you have a set of four data points. All you know is  
that the range is 20 and one of the data points is 70. What is the difference between the  
maximum and minimum possible values of the mean of the set?  
ANSWER:    30 
