NASAT 2012 
Round 20 
Tossups 
1. According to this man, who is not Ronald Coase, the protective purpose of the firm is survival, whereas 
the affirmative purpose of a firm is corporate growth. In this man’s “revised sequence,” producers create 
consumers' wants so that they buy certain goods; that is known as his “dependence effect.” According to 
this man, the belief that financial crises are normal occurrences is part of the “central tradition” of 
economics. His most famous work argues that previous economic theories explained economies based on 
poverty, and introduced the term “conventional wisdom.” For 10 points, name this author, who advocated 
for a large increase in public works spending in  
The Affluent Society 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Galbraith 
149-12-59-20102 
2. Granules of this mineral are often found in the vacuoles of the  
Closterium 
 genus of algae. This mineral 
can form from tiny crystals of bassanite. An extremely pure form of this mineral is mined at Fort Dodge, 
Iowa. The largest crystals in the world are made of a clear variant of this mineral and are found in the 
Mexican Naica mine. When it has a fibrous appearance, it is known as satin spar. This mineral can be 
formed from the hydration of anhydrite. Its variants include selenite and alabaster and it is the most 
common sulfate mineral. For 10 points, name this mineral with a Mohs hardness of 2, also known as 
hydrous calcium sulfate and used in drywall. 
ANSWER:  
gypsum 
 [or  
calcium sulfate dehydrate 
 before mentioned] 
149-12-59-20103 
3. American oil companies were protected from nationalization in this country by the Bucareli Treaty. The 
mostly-Federalist York Rite of Freemasonry was supported by American minister to this country Joel 
Roberts Poinsett to counter the centralist Scottish Rite. As ambassador, Josephus Daniels helped ease 
tensions between the U.S. and this country when oil companies were nationalized. Daniels was also 
Secretary of the Navy when the navy occupied one of this country's ports after American sailors were 
arrested in Tampico. From World War II to 1964, the Bracero program brought in thousands of workers 
from this country to the United States. For 10 points, name this country from which the United States 
seized California. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
 [or  
United Mexican States 
; or  
Estados Unidos Mexicanos 
] 
121-12-59-20104 
4. The surrealist magazine  
Documents 
 was published in this language. An early draft of  
Ethan Frome 
 was 
written in this language before being translated into English. One novel written in this language concerns 
the search for the missing Anton Vowl and was written entirely without the letter “e.” That work, which 
was published in English as  
A Void, 
 is an example of the Oulipo movement practiced mainly by speakers of 
this language. In the 1950s, a movement in this language which advocated giving each book a different 
style became known as the “new novel” movement. Other works written in this language include  
Notebook 
of a Return to the Native Land, 
 which is an exemplar of the  
Negritude 
 movement. For 10 points, name this 
language used by Georges Perec, Alain Robbe-Grillet and Aime Cesaire. 
ANSWER:  
French 
015-12-59-20105 
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  1 of 11 
5. During the service for this holiday, a priest carves a cross, alpha and omega, and the current year into a 
candle. \"Sunrise services\" often occur in graveyards on this holiday. In one tradition, this holiday includes a 
homily written by John Chrysostom and begins with a vigil called the Midnight Office. This holiday takes 
place on the last day of Triduum. The name of this holiday in some languages is related to that of Passover, 
from which it was once dated. On the day before this holiday, sacraments can only be administered to the 
dying. For 10 points, name this Christian holiday that comes immediately after Holy Saturday and two days 
after Good Friday and celebrates the resurrection of Jesus. 
ANSWER:  
Easter 
 Sunday 
105-12-59-20106 
6. One work of this type is a song cycle whose first and last movements are identical and required Dennis 
Brain to play without moving his fingers. Other movements of that work with this title include settings of 
poems by Cotton, Blake, and Tennyson, sung at the premiere by Peter Pears. That piece is Benjamin 
Britten's work of this type ”for Tenor, Horn, and Strings.” Dvorak wrote one of these in D minor for winds, 
and one in E major for strings. Another work of this type had a now-lost minuet fifth movement and opens 
with the notes G, D-G, D-G-D-G-B-D. For 10 points, name these compositions similar to divertimenti, 
which include Mozart’s  
Eine Kleine Nachtmusik 
. 
ANSWER:  
serenades 
020-12-59-20107 
7. This man's victories led to his presence at a treaty signing at Mount Papua. This man grew famous after 
digging ditches in front of his \"household cavalry\" to secure a victory at Dara. This man's godson 
Theodosius made him a cuckold after being seduced by this man's wife Antonina. He landed at Lepcis 
Magna in one war after Hilderic was murdered and usurped by Gelimer, whom this man defeated at Ad 
Decimum and Tricamarum. In a legend unsupported by evidence, he was blinded and forced to beg on the 
streets. This victor over the Vandals in North Africa struggled to conquer Italy after working with Narses to 
crush the 532 Nika riots in Constantinople. For 10 points, name this general who served the Emperor 
Justinian. 
ANSWER: Flavius  
Belisarius 
104-12-59-20108 
8. Exchange of this substance is used to determine which amino acid residues of a protein are exposed, and 
in spectroscopy a lamp containing this substance is used to create a continuous spectrum in the UV range. 
Reacting two atoms of this substance together produces four mega-electron volts of kinetic energy, and this 
substance formed after the universe cooled below 0.1 mega electron-volts a few minutes after the big bang 
in the first step of nucleosynthesis. In IR spectroscopy incorporation of this substance causes absorption to 
shift to lower frequencies. It is the first product of the proton-proton chain and is quickly consumed to form 
helium. For 10 points, name this substance found in heavy water, an isotope of hydrogen with mass two. 
ANSWER:  
deuterium 
 [or  
heavy hydrogen 
 or  
deuteron 
] 
048-12-59-20109 
9. One section of this work states that a carried object does not have some kind of intrinsic property that 
makes it carried. One character says that he has difficulty believing the story of the castration of Uranus. 
Another character in this work argues that the gods would still be unclear about punishing a man who killed 
without cause. Meletus is described as having a beak and a bad beard in this work. The title character is 
pressing charges against his own father because his father allowed one of his slaves to die. It takes place a 
few weeks before Socrates' trial, and Socrates is asking the title character for legal advice since he’s facing 
an impiety charge. For 10 points, name this Platonic dialog which concerns the nature of piety. 
ANSWER: the  
Euthyphro 
048-12-59-20110 
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  2 of 11 
10. At the beginning of this story, the protagonist quits his job, prompting Mortimer to shout that the 
protagonist was “Willing! Intelligent! Honest! Grateful!” Before going to New York, the protagonist 
makes money running a series of laundries and becomes engaged to Irene Scheerer. The father of this 
story’s protagonist owns the second-best grocery store at Black Bear Lake. At the end of this story, a man 
named Devlin reveals to the protagonist that the wife of Lud Simms is no longer a great beauty, shattering 
the protagonist’s title illusions and causing him to repeat, “That thing is gone.” For 10 points, name this F. 
Scott Fitzgerald short story about caddy Dexter Green’s love for Judy Jones. 
ANSWER: “ 
Winter Dreams 
” 
052-12-59-20111 
11. Edwin Jaynes and John Maynard Keynes have argued this field should be thought of as an extension of 
logic, and Keynes used Bertrand's paradox as an example of how assuming the “principle of indifference” 
in this field could lead to confusion. Andrey Kolmogorov used concepts from measure theory in 
formulating axioms of this field. John Venn was an early proponent of the frequentist interpretation of it. 
Christiaan Huygens wrote the first modern book on it, though it had been discussed earlier in letters 
between Pascal and Fermat. An alternative to the frequentist approach in this field is the Bayesian. For 10 
points, name this mathematical study of chance. 
ANSWER:  
probability 
121-12-59-20112 
12. This country’s garbage-eating avaava fish is compared to a person in one of its common insults; such 
an insult was used in 2009 on its Prime Minister, who had its roads change from right-side to left-side 
driving. Tourists to this independent country can watch its native “fire knife” dancers or walk the Saleaula 
lava fields. This country’s tallest peak, Mount Silisili, is found north of the Apolima Strait, which divides 
this country’s two landmasses of Savai’i and Upolu. For 10 points, name this island nation with capital at 
Apia, located northwest of an American territory in the same Polynesian archipelago. 
ANSWER: Independent State of  
Samoa 
 [or Malo Sa'oloto Tuto'atasi o  
Samoa 
; or Independent  
Samoa 
; do 
not accept “American Samoa”; do not accept “Western Samoa”] 
104-12-59-20113 
13. The namesake gyrus of this structure contains the striae of Lancisi. The partial absence of this structure 
co-occurs with paroxysmal hypothermia in Shapiro syndrome and may cause Aicardi syndrome in sufferers 
of Klinefelter’s syndrome. Abnormal collections of cells called Probst bundles can result from the agenesis 
of this structure. Roger Sperry’s Nobel lecture concerned this structure. Damage to it can cause a person to 
develop alien hand syndrome. It is not found in monotremes or marsupials, and it is the largest white matter 
structure in the brain. To treat the grand mal seizures associated with severe epilepsy, this structure can be 
severed. For 10 points, name this flat bundle of nerves that links the brain’s hemispheres. 
ANSWER:  
corpus callosum 
079-12-59-20114 
14. A young diver named Euclides brings this character shiny baubles to make him think he has found the 
sunken treasure of the  
San Jose. 
 This character's father was named \"Pius V Loayza\" after his grandmother 
chose a pope at random from a calendar of saints' days. When he wants to read Castilian love poetry, he 
goes to a \"transient hotel\" full of naked prostitutes. He seduces his fourteen-year-old ward, America 
Vicuna, and has over six hundred other love affairs after his rejection by the future wife of Juvenal Urbino 
in his youth. For 10 points, name this character who finally ends up with Fermina Daza in Gabriel Garcia 
Marquez's  
Love in the Time of Cholera. 
ANSWER: Florentino  
Ariza 
 [or  
Florentino 
 Ariza] 
080-12-59-20115 
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  3 of 11 
15. This goddess' sister was a dancer born from an egg she kept under her armpit. This goddess turned the 
poetry goddess Hopoe into stone after her sister failed to return within 40 days. She used astral projection 
to sleep with Lohiau, who ended up betraying her for Hiaka, the aforementioned sister. She digs craters 
across a number of different lands in an attempt to find a home, and eventually sets up shop in a location 
where Namaka cannot reach her. This goddess became the lover of a pig god who could change his size at 
will. She is believed to reside in Mauna Loa. For 10 points, name this fire goddess worshiped in Hawaii. 
ANSWER:  
Pele 
080-12-59-20116 
16. The  
Simpsons 
 character Bleeding Gums Murphy's tendency to play on a bridge was a reference to this 
musician's habit of practicing on the Williamsburg Bridge in New York City. Early in his career, this 
musician was part of experimental usage of methadone as part of therapy for heroin addiction. His 
recordings include \"Shadow Waltz\" on  
Freedom Suite 
 and \"I'm an Old Cowhand\" on  
Way Out West 
. For 10 
points, name this jazz saxophonist whose songs \"You Don't Know What Love Is,\" \"Strode Rode,\" and \"St. 
Thomas\" appear on his album  
Saxophone Colossus 
. 
ANSWER: Sonny  
Rollins 
 [or Theodore Walter  
Rollins 
] 
088-12-59-20117 
17. This monarch was buried at Canterbury Cathedral instead of Westminster Abbey in order to be close to 
Thomas Becket. After the death of his first wife, Mary Bohun, this man married Joan of Navarre, who was 
widely thought to practice witchcraft. As a leader of the Lords Appellant, he helped persecute many of his 
predecessor's favorites. He suffered a debilitating skin disease, which some thought was divine punishment 
for executing Archbishop Richard Scrope. After usurping the throne, this son of John of Gaunt had to put 
down the rebellions of Owen Glendower and Henry Hotspur. This successor to Richard II was known as 
Bolingbroke before assuming the throne. For 10 points, name this king of England who ruled from 1399 to 
1413 and fathered Henry V. 
ANSWER:  
Henry IV 
 of England [accept  
Henry Bolingbroke 
 before read and prompt after; prompt on  
Henry 
] 
015-12-59-20118 
18. One of this artist's sculptures has tennis balls forming the shape of each eye and chicken wire 
supporting a headdress decorated with discarded molds. That work of his is  
Head of a Warrior 
. This artist 
contributed to the pottery renaissance at Vallauris. Another of his works features a skeleton that includes a 
rib cage made of a wicker basket and ceramic jugs as the title creature’s udders. This sculptor of  
She Goat 
created a work of art located in Chicago’s Daley Plaza, a copper maquette of which was called “Tete de 
Baboon.” For 10 points, name this sculptor, probably better-known for paintings like  
Guernica 
. 
ANSWER: Pablo Diego Jose Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno Maria de los Remedios Cipriano de la 
Santisima Trinidad Ruiz y  
Picasso 
030-12-59-20119 
19. During this period, many women were employed as prostitutes in the \"Recreation and Amusement 
Association.\" Also during it, students were told to take brushes and \"black out\" overly patriotic passages in 
history textbooks. This period was ended with the Treaty of San Francisco. Successes of this period 
included the creation of a constitution whose Article 9, or \"Peace Clause,\" outlawed warfare, but the 
attempt to dismantle massive, monopolistic \"financial cliques\" was less successful. This period was 
overseen by the SCAP, a title held by Douglas Macarthur. For 10 points, name this period that lasted from 
1945 to 1952, during which American forces ruled an island nation with the support of Emperor Hirohito. 
ANSWER: American  
Occupation of Japan 
 [or the Allied  
Occupation of Japan 
; prompt on answers like 
the  
period after World War II 
 in Japan] 
080-12-59-20120 
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  4 of 11 
20. In one novel by this author, the narrator is angered that his carriage speeds up while he is observing a 
man mourning a dead ass. One character in another novel by this author gave up buying new horses in 
order to pay for a widow to learn to be a midwife. In that novel by this man, the question of Martin Luther's 
birth date is settled by his Christian name. This author of  
A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy 
also wrote a novel in which the title character's Uncle Toby is obsessed with earthworks. That title 
character's nose is crushed at birth by Dr. Slop's forceps. For 10 points, name this author of  
Tristram 
Shandy. 
ANSWER: Laurence  
Sterne 
105-12-59-20121 
21. The majority of one population described in this work believes in an omnipotent god called Mithras. 
This work describes the legal system of a Persian people called the Polylerites and details another society 
where households are administrated by Stywards, Bencheaters, and Mayors. At one point in this work, a 
fool angers a friar by suggesting that all beggars be turned into monks and nuns at the table of Cardinal 
Morton. One location in this work has the capital Amaurot and tolerates all religions except for atheism. 
This work is framed as two letters from its author to Peter Giles describing the travels of Raphael 
Hythloday, who discovers the title island. For 10 points, name this work by Thomas More, which 
ostensibly describes an ideal society. 
ANSWER:  
Utopia 
080-12-59-20122 
22. Lucky finds and successful communication with strangers were both attributed to this god, who 
protected Priam on his journey to beg Achilles for the body of Hector. This god's name derives from a pile 
of stones set up to mark a boundary. He laid a curse on the house of Pelops after the murder of his son, 
Myrtilus; the nymph Salmacis so loved another of his sons that the two became one creature, half-male, 
half-female. This god of the crossroads also carried a staff that he used to lead the dead to the underworld 
called the caduceus. This god was born on Mount Cyllene on the same day that he stole cattle from Apollo, 
whom he appeased by his creation of the lyre. For 10 points, name this Greco-Roman messenger deity. 
ANSWER:  
Hermes 
105-12-59-20123 
23. The first modern king of this country was Wilhelm of Wied, whose coronation came after the Vlore 
Declaration. One hero of this nation converted to Christianity shortly after taking Kruje. That leader of this 
country waged a lifelong war against the Ottomans and was known as the \"Dragon of\" this country. 
Another leader of this nation fled after it was invaded by Italy in 1939. Yet another leader of this home of 
King Zog broke off relations with Communist China and built thousands of pillboxes on its border with 
Yugoslavia. Skanderbeg is the national hero of, for 10 points, what country that was ruled by communist 
dictator Enver Hoxha from the city of Tirana? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Albania 
 [or  
Shqiperia 
; or  
Republika e Shqiperise 
] 
141-12-59-20124 
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2012 
Round 20 
Bonuses 
1. The shear force over the area is equal to the average of the shear form of this phenomenon. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this measure of the internal forces that are acting within a deformable body. 
ANSWER:  
stress 
[10] This is the maximum stress that a material can withstand before it experience necking, or the 
contracting of its cross-section. It is the opposite of compressive strength. 
ANSWER:  
ultimate 
 tensile  
strength 
 [or  
tensile strength 
] 
[10] This man’s reciprocal theorem states that the stress vectors acting on opposite sides of the same 
surface are equal to in magnitude by have opposite directions. This man’s postulate states that the stress 
vector remains unchanged for all surfaces passing through a given point, which have the same normal 
vector at that point. 
ANSWER: Augustin-Louis  
Cauchy 
149-12-59-20201  
2. Prior to the landings at this battle, the HMS  
Ocean 
 sunk while trying to rescue the  
Irresistible 
, which, 
along with the  
Inflexible 
, had struck a line of mines laid by the  
Nusret 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this campaign in which forces under Ian Hamilton attempted to seize Seddulbahir and Ariburnu 
against forces whose leaders included Ataturk. 
ANSWER:  
Gallipoli 
 Campaign [or  
Dardenelles 
 Campaign] 
[10] This Australian song was written in honor of the ANZAC troops at Gallipoli. At the end of this song, 
the narrator states that his comrades are the \"forgotten heroes of a forgotten war.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
And the Band Played Waltzing Matilda 
\" [do not accept \"Waltzing Matilda\"] 
[10] This man, as First Lord of the Admiralty, received much of the blame for the failed Gallipoli 
campaign. Advised by Fredrick Lindemann, this man once stated \"Never have so many owed so much to so 
few,\" and delivered the \"Sinews of Peace\" speech. 
ANSWER: Winston Leonard Spencer  
Churchill 
149-12-59-20202  
3. This character has a daughter named Azelma and is last seen becoming a slave trader in America. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this villainous fiend who is the father of Eponine and Gavroche in a certain novel. The owner of 
an inn, he adopts Fantine’s daughter, Cosette, and mistreats her. 
ANSWER:  
Thenardier 
 [or  
Thenard 
] 
[10] Thenardier is an antagonist in this Victor Hugo novel about Jean Valjean, who is obsessively tracked 
by Inspector Javert. 
ANSWER:  
Les  Miserables 
 [or  
The  Miserable Ones 
] 
[10] Valjean is originally thrown into jail at Toulon and assigned number 24601 after stealing this item in 
the winter of 1795. He receives the disproportionate sentence of five years for stealing this. 
ANSWER: a loaf of  
bread 
 [prompt on  
food 
] 
052-12-59-20203  
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  6 of 11 
4. Answer the following about alphabets, for 10 points each. 
[10] Based on Greek uncial script, this script also, known as azbuka, was developed in the First Bulgarian 
Empire before being spread throughout the Slavic lands. 
ANSWER:  
Cyrillic 
[10] This abjad, or language with few vowels, is written in cursive from left to right and contains 28 basic 
letters. Similar letters are distinguished by the  
rasm 
 that appear above or below the main part. 
ANSWER:  
Arabic 
[10] This alphabet of 24 letters is written in blocks of two to five letters with at least one consonant and 
vowel. Sejong the Great popularize this official script of the Koreas. 
ANSWER:  
Hangul 
147-12-59-20204  
5. Name some 20th century virtuosi, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Russian-born American pianist was known as \"the last Romantic\" for the many recordings of 
pieces from that era, including the Liszt sonata. 
ANSWER: Vladimir Samoylovich  
Horowitz 
[10] This Lithuanian-born violinist was once attacked after performing a Strauss sonata on tour in Israel. 
ANSWER: Jascha  
Heifetz 
[10] This cellist of Chinese extraction famously played on the first anniversary of 9/11 and during Barack 
Obama's Inauguration. 
ANSWER: Yo-Yo  
Ma 
020-12-59-20205  
6. For 10 points each, answer these questions about Socrates's relation to historical writing. 
[10] A \"Socrates, son of Antigenes\" appears in this Athenian's eight-book history, which includes a funeral 
oration from Pericles in its account of most of the Peloponnesian War. 
ANSWER:  
Thucydides 
[10] After Plato, Xenophon was the main writer of Socratic dialogues, including his own Apology and 
Symposium. Xenophon relates his journey with ten thousand mercenaries across Persia in this work. 
ANSWER:  
Anabasis 
[10] In the  
Anabasis 
, this exclamation was given by the Ten Thousand when they looked out from Mount 
Madur to indicate their joy at reaching a key point in their journey. 
ANSWER: \"the  
sea, the sea 
!\" [or \" 
thalassa, thalassa 
!\"; or \" 
thalatta, thalatta 
!\"] 
104-12-59-20206  
7. You are Herman Cain. For 10 points each: 
[10] While CEO of this pizza chain, you sang a parody of John Lennon’s “Imagine” that hit the web 
during the election season. 
ANSWER:  
Godfather’s Pizza 
[10] At the beginning of 2012, you gave the Tea Party’s response to Obama’s State of the Union address. 
Your speech was assuredly better than the official GOP response, delivered by this Governor of Indiana. 
ANSWER: Mitch  
Daniels 
[10] When a crisis erupts in the former Soviet bloc, you personally convene a summit in Central Asia, but 
have no time to do the proper research. So: who is the president of Uzbekistan? 
ANSWER: Islam  
Karimov 
080-12-59-20207  
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  7 of 11 
8. The loop of Henle is one part of this organ’s functional units. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these bean shaped organs that filter blood. This organ’s functional unit is the nephron. 
ANSWER:  
kidney 
[10] This tubular structure in the nephron filters blood to create urine. Surrounded by Bowen’s capsule, it 
receives blood from the afferent arteriole. 
ANSWER:  
glomerulus 
[10] This is the area of closely packed cells that line the wall of the distal tubule. A decrease in the 
concentration of sodium chloride causes this area to signal for the increase in renin release from the 
juxtaglomerular cells. 
ANSWER:  
macula densa 
149-12-59-20208  
9. Mr. Howland accuses Njoroge of killing Jacobo in this author's  
Weep Not, Child. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author who wrote of a villager named Mugo in  
A Grain of Wheat. 
ANSWER:  
Ngugi 
 wa Thiong'o [or James  
Ngugi 
] 
[10] Ngugi is a native of this country this country. He has written many works about its Mau Mau Uprising. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Kenya 
[10] This Ngugi essay argues that African authors should write in their native languages rather than the 
languages of their former oppressors to achieve the title phenomenon. 
ANSWER: \" 
Decolonising the Mind 
: The Politics of Language in African Literature\" 
064-12-59-20209  
10. Al-Muhasibi and his disciple Junayd are early figures in this tradition. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give this term for for the various ascetic and mystical movements in Islam that includes the dervishes.  
? 
ANSWER:  
Sufism 
[10] Some Sufis are referred to by this term, which was originally used to describe mendicant dervishes. 
Orders of this group in Sufism include the Christhiyah and Qadiriyah. 
ANSWER:  
Fakir 
[10] This Muslim theologian’s  
The Revival of the Religious Sciences 
 made Sufism acceptable in Orthodox 
Islam. He is also the author of  
The Incoherence of the Philosophers 
. 
ANSWER: al- 
Ghazali 
030-12-59-20210  
11. One method for finding these objects relies on measuring changes in the semiamplitude of a star’s 
radial velocity. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these celestial objects that include Gliese 229B. The Kepler mission has found numerous one’s 
of these objects. 
ANSWER:  
exoplanet 
 [or  
extrasolar planets 
] 
[10] This equation is used to estimate the number of habitable planets in the Milky Way. The n-e term in 
this equation is equal to the average number of planets orbiting a star that exist in the habitable zone. 
ANSWER:  
Drake 
 equation 
[10] Due to their proximity to their parent star, most early discovered exoplanets were of this type. 51 
Pegasi b or Bellerophon was the first type of these exoplanets, with masses similar to or greater than the 
largest of the Jovian planets, to be found orbiting a sun-like star. 
ANSWER:  
hot Jupiter 
 [or  
epistellar jovian 
; or  
pegasids 
; or  
pegasean 
 planets] 
149-12-59-20211  
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  8 of 11 
12. This agreement ended the Eighty Years' War between the Dutch and Spanish. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this agreement that also ended the Thirty Years' War and reaffirmed the religious toleration of 
the Peace of Augsburg for Catholics, Lutherans, and Calvinists. 
ANSWER: Peace of  
Westphalia 
[10] Earlier, in 1629, Ferdinand II had tried to enforce the \"Ecclesiastical Reservation\" of the Peace of 
Augsburg by issuing this edict. 
ANSWER: Edict of  
Restitution 
[10] Sweden was represented at the negotiations by Johan Salvius and this man, the son of Sweden's 
chancellor Axel. 
ANSWER: Johan  
Oxenstierna 
105-12-59-20212  
13. This bird is addressed in a lyric which states, “Ewe bleteth after lamb, loweth after calve cow, bulloc 
sterteth, bucke verteth.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this bird instructed to sing in a song that opens with the line, “Sumer is icumen in.” 
ANSWER: the  
cuckoo 
[10] One four-line Middle English lyric addresses this entity prior to the speaker wishing he were in his bed 
again. This entity is called the “breath of Autumn’s being” in an ode by Shelley. 
ANSWER: the  
West Wind 
 [or  
Westron Wind 
; or  
Western Wind 
] 
[10] In another short Middle English lyric, the speaker begins, “I am of” this place, and ends by asking the 
listener to “come and dance with me” in this place. 
ANSWER:  
Ireland 
 [or  
Irlonde 
] 
014-12-59-20213  
14. Answer these questions about Scholastic philosophers of the Middle Ages, for 10 points each. 
[10] This nominalist English friar formulated the principle of parsimony, that multiple causes should not be 
posited for an event beyond necessity. 
ANSWER: William of  
Occam 
[10] This four-book text, used as a standard theology by Scholastic thinkers, was a theological compendium 
built around quotes from the Bible and church fathers such as Augustine. It was compiled by Peter 
Lombard. 
ANSWER: Four Books of  
Sentences 
 [or Libri Quattor  
Sententiarum 
, or  
Sententiae 
] 
[10] This author of a  
Treatise on God as the First Principle 
 devised a logical concept of “thisness” called  
haeccitas 
. He defended the Immaculate Conception six centuries before the Church made it doctrine. 
ANSWER: John  
Duns Scotus 
 [or  
Doctor Subtilis 
] 
104-12-59-20214  
15. Joachim Patinir created a \"landscape\" with this man, and Cranach the Elder depicted Cardinal Albrecht 
as him. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this saint depicted \"in his study\" in an engraving by Albrecht Durer. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Jerome 
[10] In the Durer woodcut, one of these animals, next to a sleeping dog, sits in front of the working Saint 
Jerome. 
ANSWER: a  
lion 
[10] Antonello da Messina's  
Saint Jerome in his Study 
 contains a partridge and one of these creatures in the 
foreground. These creatures, which symbolize eternal life in Renaissance art, are shown fighting in a room 
designed for Frederick Leyland. 
ANSWER: a  
peacock 
080-12-59-20215  
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  9 of 11 
16. The main characters in this novel of the New South marry after making a train trip from New Orleans to 
Chicago. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel featuring Binx Bolling, the title figure who seeks escape via a specific medium.? 
ANSWER:  
The  Moviegoer 
[10]  
The Moviegoer 
 is a novel by this author whose  
Lanterns of the Levee 
 depicts the post-Civil War South 
and whose  
The Second Coming 
 is a fictional treatment of his father’s suicide. 
ANSWER: Walker  
Percy 
[10] Another work associated with New Orleans is this John Kennedy Toole work about Ignatius J. Reilly, 
who organizes the Crusade for Moorish Dignity. 
ANSWER:  
A  Confederacy of Dunces 
030-12-59-20216  
17. One party in this lawsuit was denied the right to operate a steamboat business between New Jersey and 
New York by a lower court. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Supreme Court case that determined that Congress could regulate interstate commerce via 
the Commerce Clause. 
ANSWER:  
Gibbons v. Ogden 
[10] One of Gibbons' attorneys was this Senator and Secretary of State who delivered the \"Reply to Hayne\" 
speech. 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Webster 
[10] Along with Robert Fulton, this politician held the navigation rights to the waters of New York state, 
leading to the  
Gibbons 
 case. As U.S. Minister to France, he negotiated the Louisiana Purchase. 
ANSWER: Robert Robert  
Livingston 
088-12-59-20217  
18. A screenwriter, star, and director eavesdrop on Jonathan Shields describing his new idea for a film after 
unanimously refusing to work with him again at the end of this director’s  
The Bad and the Beautiful. 
 For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this man who also directed such 1950s musicals as  
An American in Paris 
 and  
The Band Wagon. 
ANSWER: Vincente  
Minnelli 
[10] Vincente Minnelli’s daughter Liza starred in this 1972 film adaptation of a musical in which 
American singer Sally Bowles’s relationship with Brian and Max is set against the rise of Nazism. 
ANSWER:  
Cabaret 
[10]  
Cabaret 
 was directed by this dancer and choreographer of stage productions such as  
Chicago. 
 He was 
heavily influenced by Fellini’s  
8½ 
 in his semi-autobiographical film  
All That Jazz. 
ANSWER: Bob  
Fosse 
014-12-59-20218  
19. This reactive oxygen species is typically converted in the body to a less-dangerous form by a namesake 
\"dismutase\" (dis-MEW-tays) enzyme. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this radical ion typically formed by adding a single electron to molecular oxygen. 
ANSWER:  
superoxide 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"peroxide\"] 
[10] In the Haber-Weiss reaction, superoxide radicals form hydroxyl radicals by reacting with this 
compound that is decomposed in the body by catalase. 
ANSWER:  
hydrogen peroxide 
 [or  
H O 
2 2 
; prompt on  
peroxide 
 ion] 
[10] The standard catalyst for the Haber-Weiss reaction is an ionized form of this transition metal, which 
replaced osmium and ruthenium as the most common catalyst for a  
different 
 reaction discovered by Haber. 
ANSWER:  
iron 
 [or  
Fe 
] 
003-12-59-20219  
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  10 of 11 
20. This man returned home accompanied by his friend Pylades. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man, who avenged his father Agamemnon's death by killing his mother Clytemnestra and 
her lover Aegisthus. 
ANSWER:  
Orestes 
[10] Orestes eventually married this daughter of Helen and Menelaus, who was previously married to 
Neoptolemus. 
ANSWER:  
Hermione 
[10] Orestes was put on trial in Athens. Had he been tried in the underworld, he would have faced judgment 
by Minos and this man, Minos' brother. 
ANSWER:  
Rhadamanthys 
105-12-59-20220  
21. A character in this short story tells his doctor that he is frustrated because he cannot see his wife 
through the eye holes in his body cast. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this short story which features a conversation between the couples Mel and Teresa, and Laura 
and Nick. 
ANSWER: \" 
What We Talk About When We Talk About Love 
\" 
[10] \"What We Talk About When We Talk About Love\" is a short story by this American author, who also 
wrote the collection  
Will You Please Be Quiet, Please? 
ANSWER: Raymond Clevie  
Carver 
 Jr. 
[10] Carver wrote a screenplay about this Russian novelist of  
Poor Folk 
 and  
Notes from the Underground. 
ANSWER: Fyodor Mikhaylovich  
Dostoevsky 
088-12-59-20221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 20     Page  11 of 11 
