2013 NHB Set C 
Extra Question Sheet 2 
This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the 
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is 
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a 
first or second quarter question. 
1.  
Willis Van Devanter's resignation from this body broke up its \"Four Horsemen\" who opposed the 
\"Three Musketeers\" on this body. Van Devanter's resignation also allowed for Hugo (+) Black to be 
appointed to this body, ending the scheme to (*) 
 \"pack\" additional members onto this body which 
generated criticism of FDR. For 10 points, name this organ of the judiciary branch which, during FDR's 
first administration, struck down parts of the New Deal when ruling on appellate cases. 
ANSWER: the United States  
Supreme Court 
019-13-87-16101 
2.  
After Helmuth von Moltke the younger appointed this man the commander of the Eighth Army, 
he won the battles of the Masurian Lakes and Tannenberg. He signed the 1933 Enabling Act, which 
allowed (+) Adolf Hitler to eliminate the office of President of Germany following his (*) 
 death. For 10 
points, name this World War I general and politician who attempted to present a conservative alternative to 
the Nazis, and was the namesake of a zeppelin which crashed in flames in New Jersey in 1937. 
ANSWER: Paul von  
Hindenburg 
019-13-87-16102 
3.  
A dark grey version of this item called a \"pulla\" was worn during periods of mourning. This 
garment could form a pocket called a \"sinus,\" and an important ceremony involving it was the 
awarding of the (+) \"virilis\" version to boys who reached maturity. Public officials and boys wore the 
\"praetexta\" version of it, which had (*) 
 purple hems. For 10 points, identify this garment normally 
folded from a long sheet of white wool, which was the formal dress of Roman citizens. 
ANSWER:  
toga 
019-13-87-16103 
4.  
Just days before his successor took office, this President signed an Indian Appropriations Act into 
law that caused a land rush in Oklahoma. Due to obstruction of the delivery of mail, this President 
ordered federal troops to intervene in the (+) Pullman Strike. This president repealed the Sherman 
Silver Purchase Act in response to the Panic of 1893, which ruined his (*) 
 second term. For 10 points, 
identify this president whose two terms were interrupted by Benjamin Harrison. 
ANSWER: Stephen Grover  
Cleveland 
066-13-87-16104 
5.  
Jonathan Trumbull governed this state during the Revolutionary War. The \"Fundamental 
Orders\" of this colony were written by Thomas Hooker; later, its Royal Charter was hidden in an (+) 
oak tree to spite Edmund Andros. During the Constitutional Convention, this state was represented 
by Roger Sherman and Oliver Ellsworth, who offered a namesake (*) 
 \"compromise\" proposing a 
bicameral national legislature. For 10 points, name this state that also hosted the Hartford Convention. 
ANSWER:  
Connecticut 
 Colony 
080-13-87-16105 
2013 NHB Set C     Extras Round 2     Page  1 of 2 
6.  
This denomination was the official religion of the Buyid, Fatimid, and Safavid dynasties. A major 
holiday in this denomination remembers the martyrdom of their leader Hussain at Karbala. They 
arose during the First Fitna and fought against (+) Yazid's ascension to the throne, believing that the 
successors of Ali should claim the title of (*) 
 \"imam.\" For 10 points, name this group of Muslims, 
prominent in Iraq and Iran, which is often in conflict with the much larger Sunni branch. 
ANSWER:  
Shia 
 Islam/Muslims [or  
Shiite 
; prompt on  
Islam: prompt on  
Muslim_s] 
019-13-87-16106 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set C     Extras Round 2     Page  2 of 2 
