Tournament 32 
Round 1 
Tossups 
1.  
Dorothea and Sheila Ross used these things in a study criticized for only including affluent 
participants who could afford the Stanford nursery. A questionnaire asking which of these objects 
was \"bad\" or \"nice\" was used in a study conducted by Kenneth and Mamie Clark, whose results 
were cited in  Brown v Board of Education . People yelled (*) 
 \"sockaroo\" when attacking them in a study 
of aggression conducted by Albert Bandura. For 10 points, name these toys used in gendered advertising as 
the female counterpart of action figures. 
ANSWER:  
doll 
s 
020-12-69-01101 
2.  
In the  Iliad , this deity is comforted by her mother, Dione (die-OH-nee), after being wounded by a 
mortal. This mother of Harmonia gave one of her lovers to Persephone (per-SEH-foe-nee) in a 
basket, after which Persephone refused to give him up. That lover was eventually killed by a boar 
and was named Adonis. This deity was born out of the (*) 
 foam created from Uranus's genitals in the 
sea. This goddess was caught in bed with her lover Ares by her husband, Hephaestus (huh-FESS-tis). For 
10 points, name this Greek goddess of beauty and love. 
ANSWER:  
Aphrodite 
192-12-69-01102 
3.  
One character in this work, called the Manager, is the nephew of the leader of the Eldorado 
Exploring Expedition. This work's protagonist drops a pair of bloody shoes overboard after his 
helmsman is killed by a spear. The line “Exterminate all the (*) 
 brutes!” is written in a report given to 
this novel’s protagonist. In this novel, the Inner Station is commanded by a man whose last words are “The 
horror! The horror!” For 10 points, name this short novel about Marlow’s trip to find Mr. Kurtz in Africa, 
a work by Joseph Conrad. 
ANSWER:  
Heart of Darkness 
149-12-69-01103 
4.  
In one film by this director, the protagonist’s image is multiplied as he walks between two 
mirrored walls after destroying his wife’s bedroom. In that film by this director, the protagonist 
loses a gubernatorial election due to his affair with the singer Susan Alexander. RKO Pictures 
truncated and imposed a happy ending on his second film,  The (*)  Magnificent Ambersons. 
 His first 
film follows a newspaper magnate modeled on William Randolph Hearst whose last word is “rosebud.” 
For 10 points, name this American director of  
Citizen Kane. 
ANSWER: Orson  
Welles 
014-12-69-01104 
5.  
One type of this quantity is calculated as the negative dot product of the magnetic dipole moment 
and magnetic field. In a two-body system, this quantity is proportional to the product of the two 
masses divided by radius. For a spring, this quantity is equal to one half times the spring constant 
times displacement squared. The (*) 
 gravitational form of this quantity is equal to a constant times mass 
times height. For 10 points, name this type of energy arising from the configuration of a system which is 
contrasted with kinetic. 
ANSWER:  
potential energy 
 [prompt on  
energy 
] 
014-12-69-01105 
Tournament 32     1     Page  1 of 11 
6.  
This monarch wrote the Nakaz, an instruction to a Legislative Commission making reforms. This 
ruler installed Stanislaw Poniatowski as the king of Poland, but then took part in all three partions of 
Poland with Frederick the Great and Maria Theresa. This ruler was advised by (*) 
 her lover Grigori 
Potemkin, and her rule was threatened by Pugachev's Rebellion. Originally married to Peter III, this ruler 
took power herself and became the patron of philosophers like Diderot. For 10 points, name this 
Enlightened Despot and empress of Russia. 
ANSWER:  
Catherine the Great 
 [or  
Catherine II 
 of Russia; or  
Yekaterina Alekseyevna 
; or  
Yekaterina 
II 
; or  
Sophie Frederike Auguste 
; prompt on  
Catherine 
; prompt on  
Yekaterina 
] 
186-12-69-01106 
7.  
This author of addresses to an Atheist and a Deist described a \"celestial choir\" in a poem in which 
she writes about \"Columbia's scenes of glorious toil.\" In addition to writing \"To His Excellency 
General (*) 
 Washington,\" she proclaimed that it was mercy that \"brought me from my pagan land\" in a 
poem in which she wrote that Christ's saving grace is available to her race as well. For 10 points, name this 
colonial American poet of \"On Being Brought from Africa to America.\" 
ANSWER: Phillis  
Wheatley 
040-12-69-01107 
8.  
This man was advised by Hwan Jang-yeop when he devised his ideology of self-reliance known as 
Juche (CHU-chay). Jimmy Carter convinced this man to halt his country's nuclear program. In one 
war, this man's troops pushed to the Pusan Perimeter, and his country received military aid when 
UN troops neared the (*) 
 Yalu River. This man's forces crossed south over what is now the DMZ during 
that war. For 10 points, name this former Communist leader of North Korea who was succeeded by his son 
Kim Jong-Il. 
ANSWER:  
Kim Il-Sung 
 [or  
Kim Song-Ju 
; prompt on  
Kim 
] 
149-12-69-01108 
9.  
Saint Francis of Assisi kneels below a red flag displaying the papal arms in one painting by this 
man. Another of his works depicts heads in old age, middle age, and youth over a wolf, a lion, and a 
dog. This artist of the  Pesaro Madonna  and the  Allegory of Prudence  executed an equestrian portrait 
of (*) 
 Charles V at Muhlberg. A girl looks through a chest in one of his paintings, in which a brown and 
white dog lies at the feet of the title reclining figure. For 10 points, name this Venetian painter of  
Venus of 
Urbino. 
ANSWER:  
Titian 
 [or  
Tiziano 
 Vecelli] 
192-12-69-01109 
10.  
This disease is associated with an increased risk for Hirschsprung's disease. People with this 
condition often have marks on their iris called Brushfield spots. Sufferers of it sometimes only have 
one crease across their palm. Its occurrence in (*) 
 newborns is correlated with higher maternal age, and 
symptoms of this disease include an abnormally small chin, short stature, and limitations in mental 
capacity. For 10 points, name this condition resulting from an extra chromosome 21. 
ANSWER:  
Down syndrome 
 [or  
Down's syndrome 
, or  
trisomy 21 
 until its mention] 
192-12-69-01110 
Tournament 32     1     Page  2 of 11 
11.  
This politician apologized after General Martin Dempsey objected to his phrase “smoke and 
mirrors” in talking about the Pentagon. This man retained his congressional seat in four straight 
elections against orthopedic surgeon Jeffrey C. Thomas. He drafted his plan,  The (*)  Path to 
Prosperity 
, while serving as chair of the House Budget Committee. This man was continually laughed at by 
an aggressive Joe Biden in an October, 2012 debate. For 10 points, name this Wisconsin representative who 
was chosen in August 2012 to be Mitt Romney’s running mate in the 2012 election. 
ANSWER: Paul Davis  
Ryan 
052-12-69-01111 
12.  
This state contains a mostly man-made geyser surrounded by seemingly painted rock known as 
Fly Geyser. A national park in this state contains Lehman Caves and many bristlecone pines. This 
state contains Pyramid Lake and the Black Rock Desert. The majority of the Great (*) 
 Basin lies 
within this state, which includes a city nicknamed the “Biggest Little City in the World.” Lake Tahoe lies 
on this state’s border with California. For 10 points, name this “Silver State,” whose cities include Carson 
City and Las Vegas. 
ANSWER:  
Nevada 
140-12-69-01112 
13.  
In one section of this work, the journey of Mosiah to the land of Zarahemla is described; that 
section is told by Amaleki. One community in this work are called the Jaredites, while other groups 
discussed in this work include the warring Lamanites and (*) 
 Nephites, who both descended from the 
prophet Lehi. This book was crafted by a man named Moroni and were originally written on golden plates 
in reformed Egyptian. For 10 points, name this text translated by Joseph Smith, the central book of a 
religion now headquartered in Utah. 
ANSWER: Book of  
Mormon 
: An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon Taken From the Plates of 
Nephi 
141-12-69-01113 
14.  
In this work, a messenger reports the death of Polybus. One character in this play leaves Corinth 
after being shocked by an oracle’s message to him. A shepherd in this play describes finding a baby 
on Mount Cithaeron. At the beginning of this play, (*) 
 Creon reports that an oracle decreed that the 
murderer of Laius must leave the city before a plague can end. That murderer blinds himself and leaves 
upon discovering his incestuous affair with his mother, Jocasta. For 10 points, name this play by Sophocles 
about a king of Thebes. 
ANSWER:  
Oedipus Rex 
 [or  
Oedipus the King 
] 
140-12-69-01114 
15.  
The final movement of this work features a woman’s chorus in an adjoining room with the door 
slowly being closed at its end. The composer of this work adapted one movement into the hymn 
“Thaxted”; that melody fit the metre of the poem “I vow to thee, my country.” Its final movement is 
titled the (*) 
 “Mystic,” while more famous movements have such names as the “Bringer of Old Age” and 
the “Bringer of War.” For 10 points, name this orchestral suite by Gustav Holst about seven astrological 
entities. 
ANSWER:  
The  Planets 
 [or  
Holst’s Opus 32 
] 
052-12-69-01115 
Tournament 32     1     Page  3 of 11 
16.  
A folding function maps this set of numbers onto one of its subsets. No set has a cardinality 
between these numbers and the real numbers according to the continuum hypothesis of Georg 
Cantor. This set of numbers defines all possible outputs of the (*) 
 floor and ceiling functions. This set 
of numbers is symbolized Z, and rational numbers can be expressed as a quotient of these numbers. For 10 
points, name this set consisting of the whole numbers and their negatives. 
ANSWER:  
integer 
s 
014-12-69-01116 
17.  
Before this battle, Odo the Great, the duke of Aquitaine, was routed at the Battles of Bordeaux 
and the River Garonne. A strong phalanx stopped a cavalry charge in this battle by the losing side, 
which was led by Abd Al-Rahman, the sultan of Morocco. After this battle, the winning commander 
received the nickname (*) 
 \"the Hammer.\" For 10 points, name this 732 CE battle in which Charles Martel 
decisively stopped a Muslim invasion of Europe. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Tours 
 [prompt on Battle of  
Poitiers 
] 
186-12-69-01117 
18.  
This quantity remains unchanged in the throttling process, as well as in an adiabatic process that 
is irreversible and does no work. This state variable's total for a given reaction is independent of the 
number of steps involved according to (*) 
 Hess's law. This quantity is equal to internal energy plus 
pressure times volume. Its change is negative for exothermic reactions. For 10 points, name this quantity 
whose change, in a system at constant pressure, is equal to the heat absorbed or released. 
ANSWER:  
enthalpy 
066-12-69-01118 
19.  
This man received a presidential nomination after William Jennings Bryan supported him over 
\"Champ\" Clark. This man signed a law that created a board to set the discount rate. This onetime 
governor of New Jersey signed the Clayton Anti-Trust Act and the Federal Reserve Act. He defeated 
the (*) 
 Bull Moose Party in one election. The sinking of the  
Lusitania 
 occurred during this man's 
presidency, which saw him formulate his Fourteen Points. For 10 points, name this President during World 
War I. 
ANSWER: Thomas Woodrow  
Wilson 
149-12-69-01119 
20.  
This is the title of a poem that references \"the site of this forgotten Babylon\" and that was written 
in competition with the more famous poem of this name by Horace Smith for an issue of Leigh 
Hunt's  The Examiner.  This poem describes a \"sneer of cold command\" worn by a figure whose 
passions \"stamped on these lifeless things.\" That figure was immortalized in a (*) 
 statue of which only 
two \"trunkless legs of stone\" remain in the middle of the desert. For 10 points, name this Percy Bysshe 
Shelley poem about a representation of an Egyptian pharaoh. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ozymandias 
\" 
040-12-69-01120 
21.  
The overhead of these constructs can be reduced by using a technique known as unrolling. 
Continue is a common keyword used in the context of these constructs. Its pre-test type can be 
transformed to post-test by appropriately prefixing the keyword \"do.\" If a condition always 
evaluates to (*) 
 true, the infinite type of these constructs is created. Common keywords for these 
constructs are for and while. For 10 points, identify these constructs that repeat a section of code. 
ANSWER:  
loop 
 [prompt on  
control 
 flow statement] 
066-12-69-01121 
Tournament 32     1     Page  4 of 11 
22.  
In this novel, Dorothea and Ferdinand are part of a love rectangle in which the madman 
Cardenio loves Lucinda. The second part of this novel criticizes Avellaneda’s unauthorized sequel 
and includes scenes in Barataria, an island governed as promised by the title character’s sidekick. 
The title character wields his family lance atop (*) 
 Rocinante, idealizes Dulcinea, and is told not to 
attack windmills by his companion Sancho Panza. For 10 points, name this Spanish book about a 
delusional knight-errant, by Miguel de Cervantes. 
ANSWER:  
Don Quixote 
 [or  
The Ingenious Gentleman  Don Quixote  of La Mancha 
; or  
El Ingenioso 
Hidalgo  Don Quijote  de la Mancha 
] 
104-12-69-01122 
23.  
This man improved farming in Kazakhstan in the Virgin Lands Campaign. This leader came to 
power after a power struggle that led to the death of Lavrentiy Beria. This leader engaged in the 
\"kitchen debate\" with Richard Nixon. This leader began a series of reforms after denouncing his 
predecessor in the (*) 
 \"Secret Speech.\" This man relented to United States demands in 1962 to end the 
Cuban Missile Crisis. For 10 points, name this Soviet premier who succeeded Joseph Stalin. 
ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich  
Khrushchev 
140-12-69-01123 
Tournament 32     1     Page  5 of 11 
Tournament 32 
Round 1 
Bonuses 
1. Name these autonomous communities of Spain, for 10 points each. 
[10] Tenerife, Ferro, and La Palma are among the namesake components of this archipelago. 
ANSWER: the  
Canary Islands 
 [or Las  
Islas Canarias 
] 
[10] Lleids, Tarragona, Girona, and Barcelona provinces make up this northeastern area, which speaks a 
namesake Romance language similar to Occitan. 
ANSWER:  
Catalonia 
 [or  
Cataluña 
; or  
Catalunya 
] 
[10] This region is named for the city that it surrounds, which is home to the Prado and Reina Sofia art 
galleries and eclipsed Toledo in political importance at the end of the sixteenth century. 
ANSWER:  
Madrid 
019-12-69-01201  
2. Answer the following about American composers, for 10 points each. 
[10] While perhaps better known for his ballets like  
Billy the Kid 
, this man composed the  
Lincoln Portrait 
and the patriotic  
Fanfare for the Common Man 
, which appeared in his third symphony. 
ANSWER: Aaron  
Copland 
[10] More recent American composers such as Philip Glass and John Adams compose works in this genre, 
which typically features repetition, gradual transformation, and a steady, low-key beat. 
ANSWER:  
minimalism 
 [or  
minimal 
 music] 
[10] The avant-garde American composer John Cage is best known for this 1952 piece, in which the 
absence of sound is “heard” for the title length of time. 
ANSWER:  
4’33’’ 
 [or  
four minutes, 33 seconds 
] 
052-12-69-01202  
3. One of the intellectual fathers of this movement was Pierre-Joseph Proudhon. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this movement that agitates for stateless societies. 
ANSWER:  
anarchism 
 [or word forms] 
[10] Anarchism is often combined with this movement, which exalts trade unions and works for the 
supremacy of workers in a society that lacks capitalism and the state. 
ANSWER:  
syndical 
ism [or  
anarcho-syndical 
ism; or word forms] 
[10] Even more modern branches of anarchism incorporate it with this movement, whose extreme factions 
include the Earth Liberation Front. 
ANSWER:  
environmental 
 movement [or  
green 
 movement; or  
eco 
 movement; or any and all word forms] 
020-12-69-01203  
Tournament 32     1     Page  6 of 11 
4. This man was the first Russian ruler to take the title of tsar. For 10 points each. 
[10] Name this tsar who waged the Livonian War and terrorized his own people using a force called the 
oprichniki. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan the Terrible 
 [or  
Ivan IV 
 of Russia; or  
Ivan Vasileyevich 
; or  
Ivan Grozny 
; prompt on  
Ivan 
] 
[10] Many of these Russian noblemen were persecuted by Ivan during his reign. They were forced to pay a 
tax to keep their beards during Peter the Great's rule. 
ANSWER:  
boyar 
s 
[10] The death of Ivan's son Feodor I started this unsettled period between the end of the Rurikid Dynasty 
and the start of Romanov rule. 
ANSWER:  
Time of Troubles 
 [or  
Smutnoye Vremya 
] 
126-12-69-01204  
5. In this scientist's most famous endeavor, he inserted pus from a cowpox pustule into a boy's arm. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this developer of the first smallpox vaccine. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Jenner 
[10] The first vaccine for this virus was created by Louis Pasteur. One of its characteristic signs is foaming 
at the mouth. 
ANSWER:  
rabies 
[10] Pasteur created the rabies vaccine by growing the rabies virus in the spinal cord of these animals. The  
Myxoma 
 virus was introduced to Australia in an attempt to control these animals. 
ANSWER:  
rabbit 
s 
066-12-69-01205  
6. This work is set at the country house of the aging actress Irina Arkadina. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play, in which Nina stars in a play written by Konstantin, who shoots the title creature. 
ANSWER:  
The  Seagull 
 [or  
Chayka 
] 
[10] This Russian playwright wrote  
The Seagull, 
 along with  
The Cherry Orchard 
 and  
The Three Sisters. 
ANSWER: Anton  
Chekhov 
 [or Anton Pavlovich  
Chekhov 
] 
[10] Chekhov also wrote a short story titled after a lady with a small one of these animals. Bulgakov wrote 
about one of these animals called Sharik. 
ANSWER:  
dog 
s 
191-12-69-01206  
7. Einstein studied how these particles are emitted when they absorb energy from electromagnetic 
radiation. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these negatively charged elementary particles discovered by J.J. Thomson. 
ANSWER:  
electron 
s 
[10] Robert Millikan conducted this 1909 experiment to determine the charge of an electron. 
ANSWER:  
oil drop 
 experiment 
[10] In this phenomenon, the deflection or slowing down of an electron produces electromagnetic radiation. 
It is responsible for the continuous spectrum of X-rays. 
ANSWER:  
bremsstrahlung 
 radiation 
079-12-69-01207  
Tournament 32     1     Page  7 of 11 
8. The title object of this poem is “glazed with rain water beside the white chickens.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem found in the collection  
Spring and All. 
 It describes an object that “so much depends 
upon.” 
ANSWER: “The  
Red Wheelbarrow 
” 
[10] “The Red Wheelbarrow” is the most famous poem by this man, whose works include an epic about a 
city in New Jersey,  
Paterson. 
ANSWER: William Carlos  
Williams 
[10] In this other short poem by Williams, the speaker states, “I have eaten the plums that were in the 
icebox” and asks, “forgive me they were delicious.” 
ANSWER: “ 
This Is Just to Say 
” 
140-12-69-01208  
9. One extremely valuable ancient dye of this color was extracted from the Murex sea snail by Phoenicians. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this color that appeared as a stripe in the togas of senior Roman officials. It later became the 
traditional color for Byzantine emperors and early medieval royalty. 
ANSWER:  
purple 
 [or  
violet 
] 
[10] The Murex dye was made by this island city off the coast of modern-day Lebanon. Alexander the 
Great built a causeway to besiege this city. 
ANSWER:  
Tyre 
 [or  
Tyrus 
; or  
Sur 
] 
[10] This Christian-persecuting emperor replaced his toga with a gold-hemmed purple robe, inspiring later 
royalty. His Tetrarchy split the empire between West and East. 
ANSWER: Gaius Aurelius Valerius  
Diocletian 
us [or  
Diocles 
] 
104-12-69-01209  
10. This classification was formerly an order, but it is now divided into Perissodactyla and Artiodactyla. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Cows, goats, horses, and rhinos are all what type of animal, characterized by being hooved? 
ANSWER:  
ungulates 
[10] One suborder of Artiodactyla is characterized by the ability to do this during normal digestive process. 
It consists of regurgitating food from the stomach and chewing on it before re-swallowing. 
ANSWER:  
rumination 
 [accept word forms] 
[10] This ruminant species shares its namesake family with a closely related animal, Okapi. Members of 
this species have huge hearts to bring blood to their brains. 
ANSWER:  
giraffe 
034-12-69-01210  
11. Answer the following about a certain Biblical passage, for 10 points each. 
[10] The twenty-third chapter of one book begins with the verse “the Lord is my shepherd.” In that chapter, 
the speaker talks about walking through a valley of what grim concept? 
ANSWER: the shadow of  
death 
[10] That chapter appears in this biblical book which features songs and hymns, many composed by David, 
written to worship God. 
ANSWER:  
Psalms 
[10] The numbering of the psalms differs from translation to translation, including this 4th-century Latin 
translation mostly done by Saint Jerome, which became the definitive Latin translation within the Catholic 
Church. 
ANSWER:  
Vulgate 
052-12-69-01211  
Tournament 32     1     Page  8 of 11 
12. This painter founded the Stone City Art Colony near his hometown in Iowa. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this regionalist painter who depicted a tale of George Washington in  
Parson Weems’ Fable 
. His 
best known work used his dentist and his sister as models. 
ANSWER: Grant  
Wood 
[10] This is Wood’s best known painting, which shows a farmer holding a pitchfork and standing by 
apparently his daughter. 
ANSWER:  
American Gothic 
[10] This satirical Wood painting shows three members of the title group holding teacups and standing in 
front of the famous image of George Washington crossing the Delaware. 
ANSWER:  
Daughters of Revolution 
052-12-69-01212  
13. One minor character in this show is arrested for the shady dealings of his Cabbage Corporation, a 
reference to a running gag in this show's predecessor. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Nickelodeon show set in and around Republic City, which takes place one hundred years 
after  
Avatar: The Last Airbender. 
ANSWER:  
The  Legend of Korra 
[10] The primary villain of  
The Legend of Korra 
 is this masked figure who leads the equalists and can rob 
people of their bending. 
ANSWER:  
Amon 
[10] Korra competes alongside Mako and Bolin on this pro-bending team, which is defeated by the 
cheating Wolfbats in the finals. 
ANSWER:  
Fire Ferret 
s 
020-12-69-01213  
14. During this man's reign, the Oder swamps were drained, creating new farmland. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ruler who greatly militarized his nation and built Sanssouci Palace in Potsdam near Berlin. 
ANSWER:  
Frederick II 
 of Prussia [or  
Frederick the Great 
; or  
Friedrich der Grosse 
; prompt on  
Frederick 
] 
[10] Frederick the Great ruled this European kingdom whose aristocracy were the Junkers (YOON-kairs). 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Prussia 
[10] Frederick the Great stopped Joseph II of Austria from gaining any of this southeast German state after 
the death of a member of the Wittelsbach family caused a succession crisis in it. 
ANSWER:  
Bavaria 
 [or  
Bayern 
] 
141-12-69-01214  
15. Matrix multiplication lacks this property. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this property which states that the order of multiplication doesn't matter, so a times b equals b 
times a. 
ANSWER:  
commutativity 
 [or  
abelian 
; or word forms] 
[10] Binet's theorem states that this operation applied to two multiplied matrices yields this operation of 
each matrix added together. 
ANSWER:  
det 
erminant 
[10] When the adjoint of a matrix A is divided by the determinant of A, it gives a matrix with this relation 
to A. The additive one of these for x is negative x while the multiplicative one is one over x. 
ANSWER:  
inverse 
121-12-69-01215  
Tournament 32     1     Page  9 of 11 
16. One character in this novel, Mr. Carmichael, is a lawyer who takes a case “pro deo” or “for God.” For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which the black pastor Stephen Kumalo goes to a city to find his son Absalom, 
who is ultimately executed for the murder of the white activist Arthur Jarvis. 
ANSWER:  
Cry, the Beloved Country 
[10]  
Cry, the Beloved Country 
 is by Alan Paton, an author from this country, who frequently explored 
issues of apartheid in his novels, including  
Too Late the Phalarope. 
ANSWER:  
South Africa 
[10] This sister of Stephen becomes a prostitute in the city. She ultimately runs off instead of returning to 
the village with Stephen, leading him to take care of her son. 
ANSWER:  
Gertrude 
 Kumalo [prompt on  
Kumalo 
] 
052-12-69-01216  
17. For 10 points each, name some things related to naval warfare in the War of 1812. 
[10] One justification for U.S. involvement in the war was this practice, in which sailors on enemy vessels 
were conscripted into the British Navy. 
ANSWER:  
impressment 
[10] The British government worked with Lloyd's of London to keep the price of this product low for 
trans-Atlantic commerce. 
ANSWER:  
insurance 
[10] Francis Scott Key witnessed the naval battle named for this fortification near Baltimore, inspiring him 
to write \"The Star-Spangled Banner.\" 
ANSWER: Fort  
McHenry 
191-12-69-01217  
18. In one of this man’s stories, Georg and Ulrich end their quarrel after becoming trapped under a log, but 
soon realize that wolves have arrived instead of assistance. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this British author who wrote such short stories as “The Interlopers” and “Sredni Vashtar.” His 
real name is Hector Hugh Munro, but he is best known by his pen name. 
ANSWER:  
Saki 
[10] Saki was killed during this conflict, which was the subject of Wilfred Owen’s poems, including 
“Anthem for Doomed Youth” and “Dulce et Decorum Est.” 
ANSWER:  
World War I 
[10] This Saki short story ends with the sentence, “Romance at short notice was her specialty,” referring to 
the fanciful tales told by a fifteen-year-old to people like the nervous Framton Nuttel, who thinks he sees 
ghosts at the end of this tale. 
ANSWER: “The  
Open Window 
” 
052-12-69-01218  
Tournament 32     1     Page  10 of 11 
19. One important aspect of organic chemistry is determining which functional groups are present in a 
compound. For 10 points each: 
[10] Carboxylic acids can be identified because they have a low value for this property. This measure of a 
solution's hydronium concentration is 7 for neutral compounds. 
ANSWER:  
pH 
[10] A common test for determining degree of hydrogen saturation for a compound is adding this liquid 
nonmetal, which turns from brown to colorless in the presence of alkenes and alkynes. 
ANSWER:  
bromine 
 [or  
Br 
] 
[10] This lab technique uses radiation at wavelength longer than visible light. When a compound absorbs at 
a given frequency in this technique, it produces a characteristic peak to show which functional groups are 
present. 
ANSWER:  
infrared spec 
troscopy [or  
IR spec 
troscopy] 
190-12-69-01219  
20. This thinker compared his realization that the mind constructs reality, as well as receiving content from 
it, to a \"Copernican Revolution.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German Enlightenment philosopher. This author of the  
Critique of Pure Reason 
 formulated 
a duty-based ethics in his  
Critique of Practical Reason 
. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
[10] Kant's ethics rests on this idea, according to which one should only act in ways that one would have as 
universal laws. 
ANSWER: the  
categorical imperative 
[10] In the  
Critique of Pure Reason 
, Kant distinguished analytic judgments from these types of judgments, 
which say something about a predicate that cannot be derived from its definition. 
ANSWER:  
synthetic 
 judgments 
080-12-69-01220  
21. This work begins with the protagonist living in a cellar filled with thousands of light bulbs, and it ends 
with a race riot in Harlem. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel, whose unnamed narrator is expelled from college by Dr. Bledsoe and finds a job 
working with Todd Clifton and the Brotherhood. 
ANSWER:  
Invisible Man 
[10]  
Invisible Man 
 is the best known work of this author, whose essays were collected in  
Shadow and Act. 
ANSWER: Ralph  
Ellison 
 [or Ralph Waldo  
Ellison 
] 
[10] The protagonist of  
Invisible Man 
 is expelled for allowing this white trustee of the college to meet the 
incestuous Jim Trueblood and taking him to the Golden Day tavern. 
ANSWER: Mr.  
Norton 
191-12-69-01221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
Tournament 32     1     Page  11 of 11 
