NASAT 2013 
Round 5 
Tossups 
1. In this novel, a priest who has a marvelous collection of masks is found beheaded in a patch of hyacinths. 
That character, Father Huismans, teaches the son of Zabeth, a magician. The servant Ali takes the name 
Metty before coming to work with the protagonist of this novel, whose friend Indar says that his home 
country is not strong since they do not have a flag. The protagonist of this novel has an affair with Yvette, 
whose husband Raymond works in an area called the Domain for a ruler called the Big Man. For 10 points, 
name this novel in which Salim sets up a shop in an unnamed African country, written by V. S. Naipaul. 
ANSWER:  
A  Bend in the River 
192-13-83-05101 
2. In one piece, this composer memorialized an incident in which a crowd waiting at a train station 
spontaneously broke out into song. Nicholas Slonimsky instructed part of his ensemble to play four 
measures in the same time that another part played three to evoke dueling bands in his rendition of another 
\"orchestral set\" by this composer. He instructed the pianist to create a tone cluster by hitting the keys with a 
piece of wood in the \"Hawthorne\" movement of another work. This composer used minor thirds in his 
quotations of songs like \"Old Black Joe\" in the first movement of his most famous piece, which depicts the 
Robert Gould Shaw Memorial. For 10 points, name this American composer of  
Concord Sonata 
 and  
Three 
Places in New England 
. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Ives 
140-13-83-05102 
3. One character in this play bursts onstage with a monologue in which he compares his tattered shoe to his 
mother and his whole shoe to his father while leading his dog Crab on a leash. In its first act, the 
maidservant Lucetta reads a love letter intended for her mistress, who angrily dismisses her and 
remorsefully calls her back, only to get angry again and rip up the letter. Later in this play, a group of 
banished outlaws demands that one of the title characters be their king. That character stops a rape in the 
final act, in which Thurio is exposed as a villain to the Duke of Milan and Sebastian blows her transvestite 
cover. For 10 points, name this early Shakespeare comedy about Valentine and Proteus, inhabitants of the 
title Italian city. 
ANSWER:  
The  Two Gentlemen of Verona 
020-13-83-05103 
4. A literary theorist with this surname created the \"dramatistic Pentad\" to characterize an act and wrote  
A 
Rhetoric of Motives. 
 Another philosopher with this surname wrote an essay that championed the Petition of 
Right because it granted rights based not on \"abstract principles,\" but on \"patrimony.\" A philosopher with 
this surname wrote a treatise on aesthetics that associated one title concept with \"delicacy\" and the other 
with \"terror.\" That author, who distinguished the sublime from the beautiful, advocated gradual change in 
an essay translated into French by Louis XVI. For 10 points, give this surname of the conservative author 
of  
Reflections on the Revolution in France. 
ANSWER:  
Burke 
 [or Kenneth  
Burke 
; or Edmund  
Burke 
] 
080-13-83-05104 
NASAT 2013     5     Page  1 of 11 
5. In anticipation of public disapproval of this novel, the publishing company D. Appleton & Company 
deleted several chapters from the original manuscript. It contains a scene in which the protagonist tosses a 
pinecone at a squirrel and enters a forest grove resembling a chapel, only to stumble upon a decaying, green 
corpse. Opening with the image of \"the cold pass[ing] reluctantly from the earth, and the retiring fog 
reveal[ing] an army stretched out on the hills,\" this novel includes such characters as a talkative \"tattered 
man\" with two bullet wounds and Wilson, who takes care of the protagonist. Early in this novel, Jim 
Conklin announces the advance of the protagonist's Union regiment. For 10 points, name this novel about 
Henry Fleming, written by Stephen Crane. 
ANSWER:  
The  Red Badge of Courage 
020-13-83-05105 
6. Part of this man's downfall came after a gang called the Cannibal Army turned against him following the 
death of its leader, Amiot Metayer. This leader was undermined by FRAPH, a paramilitary group led by 
CIA informant Emmanuel \"Toto\" Constant. He was a part of the Ti Legliz movement and ran programming 
for Radio Cacique. In 1988, this leader of the Lavalas movement survived the St. Jean Bosco massacre. 
Guy Philippe led a 2004 coup against this man, who had in 1994 been restored to power as part of 
Operation Uphold Democracy. As a priest in Port-au-Prince, he spoke out against the Duvalier regime. For 
10 points, name this man who was Haiti's first democratically elected president. 
ANSWER: Jean-Bertrand  
Aristide 
052-13-83-05106 
7. The n-th homotopy group of a topological space X is the set of homotopy classes of maps from this 
construct to X. The stereographic projection projects this construct onto a plane. There is no continuous 
non-zero vector field on the surface of this construct. A technique called Ricci flow with surgery was 
developed to solve a conjecture which stated that every simply connected, closed 3-manifold is 
homeomorphic to one of these constructs. That conjecture was solved by Perelman and was proposed by 
Poincaré. The number of non-overlapping ones of these constructs that can touch a central one is the 
kissing number. These constructs are the boundary of a ball. For 10 points, identify these geometric figures 
whose three-dimensional form has a volume of four-thirds pi times radius cubed. 
ANSWER: hyper 
sphere 
s [or n- 
sphere 
s; or 3- 
sphere 
s; prompt on  
ball 
s] 
066-13-83-05107 
8. This country suffered a disastrous defeat at the Battle of Oland during the Scanian War. To improve 
finances, one king of this country instituted the Great Reduction, in which land sold by the crown to the 
nobility was returned. One of its kings was captured during the kalabalik at Bender and later died during a 
siege of Fredrikshald. The imprisonment of Gustav Trolle by Sven Sture the Younger led to a massacre in 
this country's capital known as that city's Bloodbath. This country was ruled by kings from the Vasa family. 
For 10 points, name this Scandinavian country, which was ruled by Charles XII during the Great Northern 
War and earlier by Gustavus Adolphus. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Sweden 
 [or Konungariket  
Sverige 
] 
140-13-83-05108 
9. A variation of this technique for thick samples records the emission of conversion electrons. Spectra 
obtained via this technique are characterized by the amount of isomer shift, quadrupole splitting and 
hyperfine splitting. This technique uses the Doppler effect to introduce miniscule variations in energy, and 
cobalt-57, which decays to the isotope iron-57, is commonly used as a source. This technique relies on 
energy decay not occurring via phonons, leading to the mass of the entire lattice being considered in 
calculations. The effect behind this technique was used in the Pound-Rebka experiment. For 10 points, 
identify this resonant, recoil-free absorption of gamma radiation. 
ANSWER:  
Mossbauer 
 spectroscopy [or  
Mossbauer 
 effect] 
066-13-83-05109 
NASAT 2013     5     Page  2 of 11 
10. One drug used to treat this disease unusually turns one's urine orange and inhibits DNA-dependent 
RNA polymerase, while another one must be activated by KatG catalase-peroxidase. This disease can be 
vaccinated against using BCG. Especially dangerous in immunocompromised individuals, this disease’s 
causative agents can be contained in granulomas, although this sometimes does not kill off the bacterium 
and leads to a latent phase. This disease, which can be diagnosed through the Mantoux test or a chest x-ray, 
is caused by a bacterium with an unusually thick and lipid-rich cell wall. For 10 points, name this disease 
caused by a Mycobacterium, which was referred to in the past as consumption. 
ANSWER:  
tuberculosis 
 [or  
TB 
; accept  
consumption 
 before the tossup is finished] 
140-13-83-05110 
11. This artist used murky colors to show the construction of a new train station in his three Excavation 
paintings, then painted the station with a light blue facade in his later  
Blue Morning 
. The caption \"why 
don't they all just go to the country for vacation\" appears under one of this artist's drawings for the Socialist 
magazine  
The Masses 
, in which a trolley car heads for Vesey Street under laundry wires strung by 
tenement inhabitants. This artist of  
Cliff Dwellers 
 painted many landscapes along the coast of Maine, but he 
is best known for a painting in which a referee of an illegal match attempts to get out of the way of the 
fighters. For 10 points, name this Ashcan painter of boxing scenes like  
Stag at Sharkey's 
. 
ANSWER: George Wesley  
Bellows 
192-13-83-05111 
12. One of these locations is home to a pink train named \"Old 1225\" and was founded so that children 
could meet Santa Claus any time of year. The road between two of these locations was terrorized by an 
outlaw gang known as the Innocents, led by Henry Plummer, the sheriff of one of them, Bannack. A more 
famous location of this kind was created after a widening sinkhole and a large release of carbon monoxide 
resulted from a subterranean mine fire in Eastern Pennsylvania. Centralia is currently one of these 
locations, many of which came to be after miners and prospectors packed their bags. For 10 points, give 
this name for uninhabited towns. 
ANSWER:  
ghost town 
s [or synonyms; just  
ghost 
 needed after \"towns\" is read; prompt on  
towns in 
Arizona 
 on the first clue] 
020-13-83-05112 
13. A man involved in this event ended up cleaning toilets voluntarily for forty years at Toynbee Hall. This 
event was exposed after drug dealer Johnny Edgecombe was arrested for shooting at a door. Dr. Stephen 
Ward left a suicide note because of this event saying he was \"sorry to disappoint the vultures.\" A key 
incident in this event was when a woman mysteriously used the phrase \"nuclear payload\" when talking to 
investigators. That woman sleeping with a foreign naval attache was a showgirl named Christine Keeler. 
Shortly after this scandal broke, Prime Minister Harold Macmillan resigned. For 10 points, name this 1963 
scandal in which a British Secretary of State for War had an affair with the mistress of an alleged Soviet 
spy. 
ANSWER:  
Profumo 
 affair 
052-13-83-05113 
14. This man noted that impression formation can be changed by the order in which people read identical 
lists of character traits, and he responded to Lorge and Sherif’s findings that people approved a statement 
more if it was credited to Thomas Jefferson instead of Lenin. The thesis adviser to Stanley Milgram at 
Princeton, this man’s most famous experiment involved actors giving incorrect answers to a quiz regarding 
lines in an attempt to see if the lone non-actor would follow the majority. For 10 points, name this 
psychologist best known for his experiments measuring conformity. 
ANSWER: Solomon Eliot  
Asch 
052-13-83-05114 
NASAT 2013     5     Page  3 of 11 
15. A man who held this office was so angered by his predecessor's three-hour farewell address that he had 
his secretary, Algernon Thompson, read his opening speech for him. The second man to hold this post said, 
\"The cultivated mind is the guardian genius of democracy\" and printed worthless currency called 
\"Redbacks.\" The last man to hold this post, Anson Jones, said, \"The final act in this great drama is now 
performed\" as he lowered a flag on February 19, 1846. The second man elected to this post was promoted 
to colonel after the Battle of San Jacinto. That man was Mirabeau Lamar, who succeeded Sam Houston. 
For 10 points, name this head of an independent republic that was annexed by the United States. 
ANSWER:  
President 
 of the Republic of  
Texas 
 [do not accept \"governor of Texas\"] 
052-13-83-05115 
16. One genre of this kind of music is played by the \"Devil's Trumpets\" and originated from a \"Scottish 
dance\" in Bohemia. In this kind of music, the melody and melodic harmony parts will sometimes play a 
third apart, resulting in dissonance with the armonia portion of the ensemble. The \"son\" music is a 
precursor to this kind of music, which was popularized by Linda Ronstadt in her album  
My Father's Songs 
. 
This kind of music is played by six violins, two or three trumpets, singers, guitars, vihuelas, and guitarrons. 
Performers of this music, which originated in Jalisco, dress like cowboys known as charros. For 10 points, 
name this Mexican folk music played by orchestras and bands. 
ANSWER:  
mariachi 
020-13-83-05116 
17. At the end of this novel, a woman released from an asylum for her husband's birthday shoots at a 
government minister during a procession. That woman's grandson learns from Marianne how she narrowly 
avoided being hanged by her mother, who was ordered by Marianne's father to kill their children after his 
suicide. This work begins with Nettlinger going to the office of the protagonist and being redirected to the 
Prince Heinrich Hotel. Nettlinger and the teacher “Old Wobbly” attack the protagonist and his friend with 
barbed-wire whips and are called “buffalo,” in contrast to the peace-loving “lambs” such as Schrella. After 
destroying the abbey his father designed, Robert Fahmel withdraws from society and only takes comfort in 
the geometric exactness of the title game. For 10 points, name this novel by Heinrich Böll. 
ANSWER:  
Billiards at Half-Past Nine 
 [or  
Billard um Halb Zehn 
] 
121-13-83-05117 
18. A compound consisting of only chlorine and this element converts carboxylic acids to acyl chlorides. 
This element's pentoxide actually consists of ten atoms of oxygen and four atoms of this element. In a 
phenomenon named for this element but ironically not actually demonstrated by it, an electron decays to a 
triplet intermediate state before returning to the ground state. The strong double bond this element forms 
with oxygen drives the Wittig reaction. In its most common form, this element exists as a tetrahedral 
structure which decomposes into a pentagonal structure, its \"red\" form, when heated. The white allotrope of 
this element is most common. For 10 points, name this element located directly below nitrogen on the 
Periodic Table. 
ANSWER:  
phosphorus 
 [or  ] 
P 
190-13-83-05118 
NASAT 2013     5     Page  4 of 11 
19. This man was said to have defeated the Hyanteans and Aonians upon reaching Boeotia. In one myth, 
this hero disguised himself as a shepherd and played music for Typhon, allowing him to retrieve the sinews 
of Zeus. This man was assisted by a set of powerful warriors called Spartoi. This man and his wife were 
transformed into snakes near the end of their lives as punishment for this man slaying a snake sacred to 
Ares. During this man’s wedding, his wife was given a necklace that caused misfortune for its owners. 
This man, who married Harmonia, undertook his most famous action after being told by the oracle of 
Delphi to cease seeking his sister Europa. For 10 points, name this Greek hero who founded the city of 
Thebes. 
ANSWER:  
Cadmus 
140-13-83-05119 
20. Karl Jansky's discovery of a radio source in this galaxy led to the foundation of radio astronomy. This 
galaxy obscures the area known as the Zone of Avoidance. The local shear and vorticity of rotation of this 
galaxy are constants characterized by Oort. The Large and Small Magellanic Clouds orbit this galaxy. In 
2010, the Fermi Telescope discovered two gamma-ray-emitting bubbles that extend out-of-plane from this 
galaxy's center, which is an intense radio source called Sagittarius A* (A-star). For 10 points, identify this 
barred spiral galaxy, found in the Local Group, that is home to the Solar System. 
ANSWER:  
Milky Way 
066-13-83-05120 
21. This novel's protagonist laments, \"I am in a chaos of principles--groping in the dark--acting by instinct 
and not after example,\" in an impromptu sermon he delivers to a crowd in the rain at a Remembrance Day 
procession. That protagonist meets his future wife while she washes chitterlings at a stream. Scathing 
public reaction to this novel led its author to devote himself solely to his poetry. The protagonist works in a 
bakery with his aunt Drusilla before marrying the coquette Arabella Donn. Towards the end of this novel, 
Little Father Time hangs himself and the two infant children of Sue Bridehead. For 10 points, name this 
novel about a stonemason, the last by Thomas Hardy. 
ANSWER:  
Jude the Obscure 
192-13-83-05121 
22. A second species of this animal is named for Polish scientist Halszka Osmolska. A breakthrough study 
in 2007 discovered that this animal had ulnar papillae on its arm bones. One of these Late Cretaceous 
theropods was found in the “Fighting Dinosaurs” fossil, where this predator was preserved locked in 
combat with a Protoceratops. This Mongolian dinosaur’s larger relatives included Deinonychus, and 
scientists now believe that this turkey-sized dinosaur had features that it may have flapped for stability 
while jumping onto larger prey. For 10 points, name this dinosaur with a sickle-claw on its foot, whose 
name translates as \"fast thief.\" 
ANSWER:  
Velociraptor 
021-13-83-05122 
23. A legend holds the rulers of this kingdom swore to uphold the law in the \"Oath of Sobrarbe.\" Its royal 
standard was a white shield quartered by the red cross of St. George, with a Moor's head in each of the 
quarters. One king of this place died fighting against the crusaders in the Battle of Muret a year after 
allying with Alfonso VIII at the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa. Pedro III of this place was excommunicated 
after aiding anti-Angevin forces in the Sicilian Vespers. Its kings lived in the Aljaferia Palace after it was 
seized from the Emirate of Zaragoza. In 1162, this kingdom united with Barcelona, and under the Catholic 
Monarchs, it united with its western neighbor. For 10 points, name this kingdom that Ferdinand united with 
Castille. 
ANSWER:  
Aragon 
121-13-83-05123 
NASAT 2013     5     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2013 
Round 5 
Bonuses 
1. This disease results in hands and feet remaining small in comparison to the rest of the body. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this disease, caused by a deletion of several genes on chromosome 15, which results in constant 
hunger and incomplete sexual development. 
ANSWER:  
Prader-Willi 
 syndrome 
[10] This phenomenon, in which one allele inherited from a parent is silenced, affects chromosome 15, 
explaining why Prader-Willi syndrome is so devastating. It shares its name with a phenomenon in which a 
bunch of baby birds followed Konrad Lorenz around. 
ANSWER:  
imprint 
ing 
[10] Many who suffer from Prader-Willi syndrome develop this condition, whose \"morbid\" form is defined 
by a body mass index of over 35. 
ANSWER:  
obesity 
 [or word forms] 
020-13-83-05201  
2. For 10 points each, name these works by Nathaniel Hawthorne. 
[10] In this novel, Hester Prynne is marked as an adulteress after her affair with Arthur Dimmesdale. 
ANSWER:  
The  Scarlet Letter 
[10] Miriam, Hilda, and Kenyon meet Donatello, who resembles a creation of Praxiteles, while living in 
Rome in this last major Hawthorne novel. 
ANSWER:  
The  Marble Faun 
[10] In this short story, the mirthful wedding celebration of Edgar and Edith is broken up by John Endicott, 
who forcibly converts the couple to Puritanism. 
ANSWER: \"The  
May-Pole of Merry Mount 
\" 
192-13-83-05202  
3. This section of a larger work includes a character named Edvard, who is a wholesaler's son. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Identify this volume from  
Either/Or 
 in which the Aesthete recounts the story of how a man named 
Johannes emotionally and romantically manipulates a girl into liking him, then breaks up with her. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Diary of a Seducer 
\" [or \"The  
Seducer's Diary 
\"] 
[10]  
Either/Or 
 was written by this Danish philosopher, who also featured Johannes the Seducer in his  
Stages on Life's Way 
. 
ANSWER: Søren Aabye  
Kierkegaard 
[10] This is the name of the girl whom Johannes manipulates. When she becomes strongly romantically 
engaged with Johannes, she's described as being \"enthroned in her meaning as a woman.\" 
ANSWER:  
Cordelia 
189-13-83-05203  
NASAT 2013     5     Page  6 of 11 
4. In this work, Yankel the Jew is often forced to follow along with the schemes of the title character. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this novella in which the title character leads a Cossack revolt against the Poles along with his 
sons Ostap and Andrei. 
ANSWER:  
Taras Bulba 
[10]  
Taras Bulba 
 is a novella by this Russian author, who is better known for short stories such as “The 
Nose” and “The Overcoat.” 
ANSWER: Nikolai  
Gogol 
[10] In Gogol’s short story “Diary of a Madman,” the narrator, a simple clerk, imagines himself to be the 
holder of this title, which gets him promptly thrown into an asylum. 
ANSWER:  
King of Spain 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
140-13-83-05204  
5. Answer the following about Pacific island geography, for 10 points each. 
[10] The HMS  
Bounty 
 sailed from this tadpole-shaped island before the mutiny occurred. This largest 
island in French Polynesia has a peak at Mount Orohena and a capital at Papeete. 
ANSWER:  
Tahiti 
[10] King Tupou VI runs this nation of \"friendly islands\" east of Fiji, where women are forbidden to drink, 
and get hired to serve, an intoxicating drink called  
kava 
. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Tonga 
 [or Pule'anga Fakatu'i 'O  
Tonga 
] 
[10] This other archipelago nation, west of Fiji, speaks a creole called Bislama. It includes the islands of 
Espiritu Santo and Tanna. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Vanuatu 
104-13-83-05205  
6. Recent research suggests that Lionardo Bartolini Salimbeni commissioned this work. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this set of three paintings, completed by 1440, depicting a battle between Florence and Lucca 
in 1432. Niccolo da Tolentino is shown on a white horse wielding a white general's baton in one of them. 
ANSWER:  
The  Battle of San Romano 
[10]  
The Battle of San Romano 
 was painted by this Florentine artist, who also painted  
The Hunt in the 
Forest 
 and a  
Funerary Monument to Sir John Hawkwood 
. 
ANSWER: Paolo  
Uccello 
[10] Uccello's  
Resurrection 
 and  
Nativity 
 in the Duomo were created in this medium, which often adorned 
the windows of Gothic Cathedrals. 
ANSWER:  
stained glass 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
189-13-83-05206  
7. Legends surrounding this battle describe how it was preceded by Munuza marrying the sister of Pelayo. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this eighth-century battle in present-day Spain that effectively assured the independence of the 
kingdom of Asturias. It is considered the first major Christian victory over Muslims on the Iberian 
Peninsula. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Covadonga 
[10] Covadonga is thus considered the beginning of this process, in which Christians took back Iberia from 
the Muslim Moors. 
ANSWER:  
Reconquista 
 [or  
Reconquest 
] 
[10] Pelayo of Asturias was likely a member of this tribe. In 507, this tribe's king, Alaric II, was killed by 
the Franks at the Battle of Vouille. 
ANSWER:  
Visigoths 
 [prompt on  
Goths 
] 
052-13-83-05207  
NASAT 2013     5     Page  7 of 11 
8. This quantity's modulus is symbolized G and equals Young's modulus over twice quantity one plus 
Poisson's ratio. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this stress acting within the plane of a material. It is symbolized with tau. 
ANSWER:  
shear 
 stress 
[10] The quotient of normal stress and normal strain can be used as the proportionality constant in this law, 
which only applies up to the yield point. It is often used with springs. 
ANSWER:  
Hooke 
's law 
[10] The stress vector T of a plane with a unit normal vector n is given by n dotted with sigma where sigma 
is this mathematician's stress tensor. He also alternately names the engineering strain, which is the change 
in length over original length. 
ANSWER: Augustin-Louis  
Cauchy 
190-13-83-05208  
9.  
Taal 
 is one deeply musically-oriented movie from this country. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this country whose powerful film industry is popularly known as \"Bollywood.\" Ashwariya 
Rai is a famous actress from this country. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
India 
 [or  
Bharat 
 ganrajya] 
[10] This Indian director of  
Charulata 
 may be best-known for  
Pather Panchali, Aparajito, 
   and  
Apur 
Sansar, 
 which comprise his  
Apu Trilogy. 
ANSWER: Satyajit  
Ray 
[10] This oft-remade Indian film starred Dilip Kumar in 1955 and Shahrukh Khan and Ashwariya Rai in 
2002, the latter of which ends with a devastating scene in which Paro collapses at her mansion's gate while 
her alcoholic beloved dies at the other side. 
ANSWER:  
Devdas 
189-13-83-05209  
10. Answer the following about protests against the Vietnam War, for 10 points each. 
[10] The Ohio National Guard killed four college students during a protest against the invasion of 
Cambodia at this university 
ANSWER:  
Kent State 
 University 
[10] In 1972, this actress protested the war with a much-criticized trip to Hanoi, where she was 
photographed on an anti-aircraft gun. 
ANSWER: Jane  
Fonda 
 [or Lady Jayne Seymour  
Fonda 
] 
[10] Students for a Democratic Society protested the war with one of these events at the University of 
Michigan. They consisted of seminars and lectures led by experts and aimed at fostering anti-war 
sentiment. 
ANSWER:  
teach-in 
s 
080-13-83-05210  
NASAT 2013     5     Page  8 of 11 
11. A test used to perform this technique divides the MST by the MSE to get the F-statistic. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this technique, an alternative to the T-test that can compare more than two groups of data. 
ANSWER:  
ANOVA 
 [or  
Analysis of Variance 
] 
[10] In ANOVA, if the F-statistic is significantly higher than the critical value, this hypothesis must be 
rejected. It refers to the default position that there is no correlation between two conditions. 
ANSWER:  
null 
 hypothesis 
[10] The Yates correction can reduce the error in this test, a \"goodness of fit\" test that calculates a 
namesake statistic by squaring observed frequency minus expected frequency and dividing by expected 
frequency. 
ANSWER: Pearson's  
chi-squared 
 test 
020-13-83-05211  
12. This novel is set in the industrial city of Milton, which is modeled after Manchester. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel whose protagonist, Margaret Hale, meets the Union leader Nicholas Higgins and 
eventually marries John Thornton, the owner of a cotton mill. 
ANSWER:  
North and South 
[10]  
North and South 
 was written by this woman who also wrote a biography of Charlotte Brontë. Her 
novels include  
Mary Barton 
 and  
Cranford. 
ANSWER: Elizabeth  
Gaskell 
 [or Elizabeth  
Stevenson 
] 
[10] Many of Gaskell's works were published in  
Household Words, 
 a journal published by this creator of 
Ebenezer Scooge. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Dickens 
192-13-83-05212  
13. A short essay that describes this type of person mentions that shaving is \"a masochistic rite which 
seems to have been derived from either Sumer or ancient Egypt.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this person described by Ralph Linton in an essay that ends by describing how, \"if he is a good 
conservative citizen, thank a Hebrew deity in an Indo-European language that he is 100%\" this. 
ANSWER:  
American 
[10] Linton's work comes up in a piece on \"Body Ritual among\" these people, whose bathrooms are called 
shrines and potty-training techniques are described as initiations into a mystery by Horace Miner. 
ANSWER:  
Nacirema 
[10] \"Body Ritual among the Nacirema\" is written in the style of this kind of work common to cultural 
anthropology, which usually follows fieldwork and extensive study of a society. 
ANSWER:  
ethnography 
023-13-83-05213  
14. The only definite woman in this group ground a stone called mother-of-pearl into powder and ate it, and 
later vanished into thin air after an invitation to the court of Empress Wu. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this set of divine beings from Daoism, often depicted crossing the ocean to attend the peach 
banquet. 
ANSWER: the  
Eight Immortals 
 [or the  
Baxian 
; or the  
Pa-hsien 
] 
[10] This immortal attained enlightenment after having a dream in which he was promoted to a high office 
in the imperial bureaucracy, but made a mistake and saw his entire family executed. 
ANSWER:  
Lu 
 Dongbin [or  
Lu 
 Tung-pin] 
[10] Another immortal, Chang Kuo, owned one of these animals he could fold up and put in his wallet. For 
his foolishness, King Midas was given the ears of one of these animals. 
ANSWER: a  
donkey 
 [or an  
ass 
; or a  
mule 
] 
080-13-83-05214  
NASAT 2013     5     Page  9 of 11 
15. This man detailed his time working for Aeropostale in  
Wind, Sand and Stars. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author better known for a novella in which the title character lives on an asteroid called 
B-612,  
The Little Prince 
. 
ANSWER: Antoine de  
Saint-Exupery 
[10] This other twentieth-century French writer wrote about Fred Peloux in  
Chéri, 
 as well as four novels 
about Claudine and the novella  
Gigi. 
ANSWER:  
Colette 
 [or Sidonie-Gabrielle  
Colette 
] 
[10]  
Chéri 
 was praised by this fellow French novelist of  
The Immoralist 
 and  
The Counterfeiters. 
ANSWER: Andre  
Gide 
192-13-83-05215  
16. This locale is situated on the El Carmel hill. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this complex of buildings and gardens, whose central portion features a serpent-shaped bench. 
Its entrance is marked by a multicolored salamander called \"el drac.\" 
ANSWER:  
Park Guell 
[10] The Nativity Facade is one side of this other building by Antoni Gaudi, an experimental cathedral with 
eighteen spires that has an estimated completion date of 2026. 
ANSWER: Basílica i Temple Expiatori de la  
Sagrada Familia 
[10] The Park Guell, the Sagrada Familia, and most of Gaudi's other buildings are located in this Spanish 
city in Catalonia. 
ANSWER:  
Barcelona 
192-13-83-05216  
17. Movement of electrons in these molecules are denoted through “fish hooks,” and one method of 
creating them is using ultraviolet light to split a diatomic gas. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these molecules, which have an unpaired valence electron. 
ANSWER: free  
radical 
s 
[10] An example of a radical is this species, which is diatomic oxygen with an extra electron. A class of 
enzymes, known as their namesake dismutases, converts this molecule into oxygen gas and hydrogen 
peroxide. 
ANSWER:  
superoxide 
[10] Radicals are often studied using this type of spectroscopy, which employs a magnetic field and 
microwave radiation to cause the unpaired electron to change spin states. 
ANSWER:  lectron  aramagnetic  esonance spectroscopy [or  
E P R EPR 
 spectroscopy; or  lectron  pin  
E S R 
esonance spectroscopy; or  
ESR 
 spectroscopy] 
140-13-83-05217  
18. Pope Innocent VIII's bull  
Summis desiderantes affectibus 
 recognized the existence of these people. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this group of people who were the subject of Heinrich Kramer's book  
Malleus Maleficarum 
, 
which advocated torturing them. 
ANSWER:  
witch 
es [prompt on  
Satanist 
s] 
[10] The old method of trying witches involved trial by this practice, in which the accused were subjected 
to dangerous experiences, such as being thrown into water to see if they sank or floated. 
ANSWER: trial by  
ordeal 
[10] The book  
Daemonologie 
 was written by this man who took part in the North Berwick witch trials. In 
the book, he advocates hunting witches. 
ANSWER:  
James I 
 of England [or  
James VI of Scotland 
; prompt on  
James 
] 
052-13-83-05218  
NASAT 2013     5     Page  10 of 11 
19. Ann Putnam accuses this character of being able to speak to the dead. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this slave from Barbados belonging to Reverend Parris, who supposedly teaches witchcraft to a 
group of Puritan girls in Salem. 
ANSWER:  
Tituba 
[10] The aforementioned events occur in this Arthur Miller play, seen as an allegory for McCarthyism. 
ANSWER:  
The  Crucible 
[10] In  
The Crucible, 
 this cruel judge is delighted by John Proctor's psuedo-confession. Act III opens with 
this man questioning Martha Corey before her husband Giles intrudes on the proceedings. 
ANSWER: John  
Hathorne 
 [or  
John 
 Hathorne] 
192-13-83-05219  
20. Alexander Haig stated that he was \"in control here\" after this event. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this action perpetrated by John Hinckley, Jr., whose target had just given a speech to the 
AFL-CIO at the Washington Hilton Hotel. 
ANSWER:  
attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan 
 [accept synonyms for \"assassination\" such as  
killing 
] 
[10] John Hinckley had been trying to impress this actress, who he became obsessed with after watching  
Taxi Driver 
 multiple times. 
ANSWER: Jodie  
Foster 
 [or Alicia Christian  
Foster 
] 
[10] During the attempted assassination, James Brady was shot and left permanently paralyzed. Brady was 
serving in this position and continued to hold it until the end of the Reagan administration, although largely 
in a symbolic role. 
ANSWER: White House  
Press Secretary 
192-13-83-05220  
21. One group of victims of the Holocaust hid in a house in this country at Prinsengracht 263. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this European country where Anne Frank was living when she wrote most of  
The Diary of a 
Young Girl 
. It was ruled by Queen Wilhelmina during World War II. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of the  
Netherlands 
 [or Koninkrijk der  
Nederland 
en] 
[10] This other young girl living in the Netherlands was a Christian who wrote the book  
The Hiding Place 
about her experiences sheltering Jews. She was sent to a concentration camp but survived. 
ANSWER: Corrie  
ten Boom 
 [or Cornelia  
ten Boom 
] 
[10] This failed September 1944 operation, the largest airborne operation at the time, was an attempt by the 
Allies to end the war by moving through the Netherlands into Germany. 
ANSWER: Operation  
Market Garden 
 [or Battle of  
Arnhem 
] 
052-13-83-05221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     5     Page  11 of 11 
