NASAT 2013 
Round 12 
Tossups 
1. This artist painted a portrait of a publisher's family in which a peacock-decorated wall lies behind a 
long-haired boy in a dress sitting on a dog who looks up at his sister. This artist of  
Madame Charpentier 
and her Children 
 painted three of his friends, including Georges Riviere, at a table chatting with some girls 
leaning over a bench in a painting of couples dancing. In another of his paintings, his future wife Alice 
Charigot plays with a dog at a table with several wine bottles while Gustave Caillebotte stands around in a 
white shirt and boatman's hat. For 10 points, name this French impressionist who painted  
Bal du Moulin de 
la Galette 
 and  
Luncheon of the Boating Party 
. 
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste  
Renoir 
080-13-83-12101 
2. At night during the spring and summer, a low-level example of these systems develops over the Plains 
states. Severe weather can be caused by the upward motion of air at the right entrance and left exit region 
of theses systems. Namesake \"streaks\" can be found within these systems. Meanders in these systems result 
in the formation of troughs and ridges and are a result of Rossby waves. These systems are typically found 
near the tropopause and at the boundary of Hadley and Ferrell or Ferrell and polar cells. Although not 
fronts, these systems are classified into polar and subtropical. For 10 points, identify these narrow bands of 
fast-moving air in the upper atmosphere. 
ANSWER:  
jet 
 streams [prompt on jet  
streak 
s until it is read] 
066-13-83-12102 
3. This man sent Thurbrand the Hold to kill Uhtred, the earl of Northumbria, after conquering his territory. 
In 1027, this man left his domain to witness the crowning of Conrad II as Holy Roman Emperor. This 
grandson of the Polish Mieszko I conquered most of Wessex in 1015. He made peace with Edmund 
Ironside to gain control of England, after this son of Sweyn Forkbeard invaded it during the rule of 
Edmund's father, Aethelred the Unready. England had prosperity during his reign due to his ability to ward 
off Vikings. For 10 points, name this king of England from 1016 to 1035 who also ruled from 1019 as king 
of Denmark. 
ANSWER:  
Canute 
 the Great [or  
Knud 
 den Store; or  
Knut 
 den Mektige] 
192-13-83-12103 
4. This language’s prohibitions or negative commands can put the word “na” before an optative or “ma” 
before an aorist verb. This language allows for absolute clauses in the locative case, and its infinitive 
behaves like a Latin accusative supine. An early grammar by Panini outlined thousands of rules for this 
language, including vowel changes that arise from compounding words called sandhi. Its discovery by 
British scholars led to the theory that it, Greek, and Latin have the same ancestor language. For 10 points, 
name this language first written with Brahmanic script in classical India. 
ANSWER:  
Sanskrit 
 language [or  
samskrta 
] 
104-13-83-12104 
NASAT 2013     12     Page  1 of 12 
5. One article of this law handed out lands to veterans at rates including 5,000 acres for a field officer and 
50 acres to a private. This law organized the territories of Grenada and East Florida, among others. This 
law was modified within five years by the treaties of Hard Labor and Lochaber. The first article of this law 
defined the boundaries of the new government of Quebec, which had just been acquired from the French. 
For 10 points, name this law which most notably irked colonists by setting a westward limit on expansion 
into Indian territories and banning private purchase of land from Indians. 
ANSWER: Royal  
Proclamation of 1763 
019-13-83-12105 
6. In this novel, one character awards a five-dollar prize to a boy's disturbing essay on the topic \"My 
Ambition: How I Can Better the Position of the Negro Race in Society.\" That character is thrown in prison 
for confronting a sheriff over the treatment of his son, whose gangrenous feet had to be sawed off when he 
was put in a freezing room for three days. Another character distinguishes her \"inside room\" from her 
\"outside room\" and makes plans to kill Hitler with her love interest, Harry Minowitz. This novel's ending 
showcases the different reactions of Mick Kelly, Dr. Copeland, and Biff Brannon to the death of a friend 
who shoots himself after the death of Spiros Antonapoulos. For 10 points, name this novel about the 
deaf-mute John Singer written by Carson McCullers. 
ANSWER:  
The  Heart is a Lonely Hunter 
080-13-83-12106 
7. Modern performers of one of this man's sonatas play really high to compensate for the lack of the extra 
strings on the title extinct instrument. This composer predominantly used wind instruments to score a 
liturgical work based on poems by Johann Philipp Neumann. This composer of the  
Arpeggione Sonata 
 and 
the  
German Mass 
 gave his ninth symphony a majestic nickname to distinguish it from his sixth in the same 
key. This composer's rendition of \"Ellen's Third Song\" is often published as  
Ave Maria 
. He may have taken 
the B-minor entr'acte for his incidental music to  
Rosamunde 
 from the finale of a work with two complete 
movements. For 10 points, name this German composer of the  
Unfinished Symphony 
. 
ANSWER: Franz Peter  
Schubert 
020-13-83-12107 
8. In a novel set in this country, a small town is destroyed by followers of a sideshow freak called “the 
Prince.” This country is home to the author of  
The Melancholy of Resistance 
 and  
Satantango. 
 The 
protagonist of another novel from this country is told, “You're not a Jew, you're a Gentile kid,” by his 
fellow prisoners at Zeitz, and he concludes the novel by thinking that next time he is asked, he will talk 
about “the happiness of the concentration camps.” That novel is  
Fatelessness. 
 An author from this country 
who moved to England wrote a novel whose protagonist confesses to plotting against Number One after 
being tortured by Gletkin. For 10 points, name this country home to Imre Kertész and Arthur Koestler. 
ANSWER:  
Hungary 
121-13-83-12108 
9. The Kok cycle uses intermediate S states to explain the period-four damped oscillation in this reaction. 
The color change of DCIP, from blue to colorless, is commonly used to demonstrate this reaction. The 
protein complex in which this reaction occurs has four manganese atoms and a calcium ion. It is driven by 
the extremely strong oxidizing ability of P680+. This reaction, sometimes named for Robert Hill, occurs in 
the absence of carbon dioxide. It results in the production of four electrons used to replace those lost by 
photosystem II chlorophyll molecules. For 10 points, name this reaction which occurs in the 
light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis in which water is split to produce a diatomic gas. 
ANSWER:  
oxygen evolution 
 [or  
photolysis 
 of water; or  
oxidation of water 
; or light-catalyzed  
hydrolysis 
; or equivalents mentioning water being broken down to form oxygen; prompt on \"light-dependent 
reactions\" or \"LDR\"; prompt on \"photosynthesis\"] 
190-13-83-12109 
NASAT 2013     12     Page  2 of 12 
10. This warrior gave an unheeded warning to Amphinomus shortly after winning a boxing match against 
Irus. This hero was friends with a family slave who had been the son of king Ktesios until a nurse handed 
him to a Phoenician pirate. In a play by Sophocles, this man and Neoptolemus go to Lemnos to fetch 
Philoctetes. In Book 10 of the Iliad, he and Diomedes kill Dolon during a nighttime raid on the Trojans. 
This man built his immobile bed around the trunk of an olive tree. After shooting an arrow through twelve 
axeheads with his hard-to-string bow, this companion of Eumaeus massacred his wife's suitors. For 10 
points, name this husband of Penelope and hero of a Homeric epic. 
ANSWER:  
Odysseus 
 [or  
Ulysses 
; or  
Ulixes 
] 
121-13-83-12110 
11. In one of this writer's stories, the dumping of powder in old man Riddle’s coffee is related by Chunk 
MacGowan, who was given that powder to seduce Rosy by the Blue Light Drug Store clerk Ikey 
Schoenstein. In another of this writer's stories, a homeless man named Soapy is arrested for loitering, and in 
a third, a janitor finds a ladder and a palette with green and yellow paint on it on the night of Behrman’s 
death in a hospital. This author of “The Cop and the Anthem” and “The Last Leaf” also wrote a story in 
which Ebenezer Dorset demands payment to have his son returned and a story in which Jim and Della 
exchange Christmas gifts. For 10 points, name this American author of “The Ransom of Red Chief\" and 
\"The Gift of the Magi.\" 
ANSWER:  
O. Henry 
 [or William Sydney  
Porter 
] 
104-13-83-12111 
12. Emulating Margaret Bourke-White, this artist mounted one of the eagle gargoyles of the Chrysler 
Building to capture a tricky shot of dancer David Parsons. A crescent streak of blood extends from an 
overturned bicycle in an image this artist took during the Bosnian War. This artist shot a half nude David 
Cassidy for the cover of Rolling Stone and once photographed her lover Susan Sontag in a bear suit. One of 
this artist's most famous photographs was taken just hours before one of its subjects was killed by Mark 
David Chapman. In that photograph, a clothed Yoko Ono is kissed by a curled-up, naked John Lennon. For 
10 points, identify this portrait photographer most recently famous for her controversial topless photo of 
Miley Cyrus. 
ANSWER: Annie  
Leibovitz 
066-13-83-12112 
13. For an RLC series circuit, a constant associated with this phenomenon can be calculated as attenuation 
divided by the resonant angular frequency. That constant associated with this phenomenon is given by 
one-half the resistance times the square root of capacitance over inductance. That constant is usually 
symbolized zeta or xi and is equivalent to one-half the reciprocal of the Q factor. This phenomenon can 
create a function with a quasi-frequency. When there is only one eigenvalue for the differential equation 
governing this phenomenon, it occurs critically. It usually results in an exponentially-decaying sinusoidal 
position-time graph as amplitude decreases. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which energy is lost 
during harmonic oscillations. 
ANSWER:  
damping 
 [or word forms] 
190-13-83-12113 
NASAT 2013     12     Page  3 of 12 
14. This institution was addressed in Julius Bachem's article \"We Must Get Out of the Tower!\", which 
argued that his political party needed to stop the idea that it only worked for this group. In the Affair des 
Fiches, Louis Andre denied promotions to this institution's members. Members of this group kidnapped the 
young Jewish boy Edgardo Mortara. This institution was originally represented in Germany by the \"Center 
Party.\" This institution was targeted in a conflict named by Rudolf Virchow, in which its officals were put 
under state control through bills propagated by Adalbert Falk. For 10 points, name this institution targeted 
by Otto von Bismarck's Kulturkampf, which resulted in the expulsion of orders like the Jesuits and 
Franciscans. 
ANSWER: Roman  
Catholic 
 Church [prompt on specific orders such as  
Jesuits 
 or  
Franciscans 
 before 
read] 
052-13-83-12114 
15. This philosopher described the \"tragic delusion\" of how, during World War I, destruction in Belgium 
was attributed to Germany rather than to war itself. This man developed a hierarchy of predicates to avoid a 
problem that prompted the phrase \"arithmetic totters\" from Gottlob Frege. This creator of a theory of types 
also examined substitutions in the phrase \"George IV wanted to know if Scott is the author of  
Waverley 
\" in 
his theory of descriptions from \"On Denoting.\" Considering the set of all sets that are not members of 
themselves led to this man's paradox. This philosopher argued in 1927 at Battersea Town Hall against the 
existence of God. For 10 points, name this British philosopher who delivered the lecture \"Why I Am Not a 
Christian.\" 
ANSWER: Bertrand Arthur William  
Russell 
023-13-83-12115 
16. This poet asked, \"How should we like it were stars to burn with a passion for us we could not return?” 
in his poem “The More Loving One.” He depicted \"an artificial wilderness and a sky like lead\" on an 
object whose viewer expected to see \"marble well-governed cities\" and \"vines and olive trees.\" In another 
poem, he wrote that we are \"children afraid of the night who have never been happy or good,\" noting, 
\"Those to whom evil is done do evil in return.\" This poet wrote of how \"the torturer's horse scratches its 
innocent behind on a tree\" in a poem opening, \"About suffering they were never wrong, the old Masters.\" 
For 10 points, name this British poet of \"The Shield of Achilles,\" “September 1, 1939,” and “Musee des 
Beaux Arts.” 
ANSWER: W. H.  
Auden 
140-13-83-12116 
17. Earlier on the day of one of these events, one of its participants was found napping, lights on, covered 
with notecards. During one of these events, a participant called the Chinese islands of Quemoy and Matsu 
\"two little pieces of real estate.\" One participant in these events was helped out by his Addison's disease. 
The other participant in these events bashed his knee on a car door in North Carolina, which became a 
severe infection, resulting in him losing 20 pounds and appearing haggard, compared to the movie-star like 
appearance of his opponent. For 10 points, name these first televised events of their kind, which played a 
huge role in the victory of a certain Catholic in the 1960 presidential election. 
ANSWER:  
Nixon-Kennedy 
 debates [accept  
1960 presidential debates 
 before \"1960\"] 
020-13-83-12117 
NASAT 2013     12     Page  4 of 12 
18. For a given threshold eta, the likelihood-ratio method uniformly has the highest value of  
this 
 according 
to the Neyman-Pearson lemma. A decrease in this quantity is the main cost of using a non-parametric 
procedure over a parametric one. This value depends on the effect size, the sample size, and the 
significance criterion used. This value is equal to one minus beta, or alternately, it is the probability of not 
committing a type two error. For 10 points, name this measure of the effectiveness of a statistical test, 
which is the probability that it will reject the null hypothesis when the null hypothesis is false. 
ANSWER: statistical  
power 
048-13-83-12118 
19. One author from this country created his pen-name by combining the names of Bakunin and Kropotkin 
and is best-known for his novel,  
Family 
. This country's \"roots-seeking school\" is exemplified by a novel in 
which the Iron Society fights at the Battle of Black Water River, and in which Grandma runs a distillery 
where urine is used to ferment the title wine. Another author from this country wrote a novel featuring the 
characters \"I,\" \"You,\" and \"She\" about a journey to find the title peak. This country is the setting for the 
novels  
Red Sorghum 
 and  
Soul Mountain 
. For 10 points, name this country, the birthplace of Mo Yan and 
Gao Xingjian. 
ANSWER: People's Republic of  
China 
080-13-83-12119 
20. Some proofs of this statement rely on the same contradiction inherent in the barber paradox. The first 
proof of this statement adapted Cantor's diagonalization proof. Chaitin's omega constant gives a probability 
for this statement. If this statement were true, then every recursively enumerable language would be 
recursive. This statement can be used to prove, by reduction, Rice's theorem. This statement is required to 
be true for busy beavers. Because this statement is usually cumbersome to work with, it is typically reduced 
to Post's correspondence problem instead. For 10 points, name this undecidable decision problem that asks 
if a given program will finish running. 
ANSWER:  
halting 
 problem [or  
halting 
 theorem; or obvious equivalents, such as whether a program will  
halt 
 or not before \"will finish running\" is read] 
190-13-83-12120 
21. Adamantios Korais proposed that this man be made the president of Greece. In 1792, this man defected 
to Austria to avoid being tried for treason. This man lost popularity after his guards killed or wounded fifty 
demonstrators on the Champ de Mars. On July 11, 1789, this man presented a draft of the \"Declaration of 
the Rights of Man and the Citizen\" to the Assembly. This man commanded the National Guard during the 
overthrow of Charles X. Earlier in that role, this man's troops saved Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette from 
a mob that invaded Versailles. For 10 points, name this French aristocrat who also fought in the American 
Revolution. 
ANSWER: Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de  
Lafayette 
030-13-83-12121 
22. The garagistes are a group of people utilizing new techniques in the creation of this product, which is 
imitated by products under the Meritage brand. The Saint-Emilion Classification for this product is released 
every ten years. In 1976, Steven Spurrier organized the Judgment of Paris, which declared a California 
counterpart to this product superior to it. The region of Medoc grows particularly fine examples of this 
commodity, which is primarily grown in the Gironde department around the Garonne River. Sauternes and 
clarets are white and red variants of it. For 10 points, name this type of alcoholic beverage grown in a 
Western European nation. 
ANSWER:  
Bordeaux wine 
 [or  
French wine 
; prompt on  
wine 
] 
192-13-83-12122 
NASAT 2013     12     Page  5 of 12 
23. In the Book of Genesis, Tamar uses this substance prior to tearing her ornamented robe. When Jonah 
finally warns the citizens of Nineveh of their fate, the king of the city dons a sackcloth and sits amidst this 
substance. Another form of this substance, vibhuti, is mixed with water and applied by devotees to Lord 
Shiva. On a movable feast day that marks the beginning of Jesus's forty days spent in the desert, this 
substance is applied to one's forehead, sometimes after the palm fronds from the preceding Sunday are 
burned to produce this thing. For 10 points, name this substance that names the \"Wednesday\" of the first 
day of Lent. 
ANSWER:  
ash 
es 
020-13-83-12123 
NASAT 2013     12     Page  6 of 12 
NASAT 2013 
Round 12 
Bonuses 
1. Name these philosophical concepts used by Sartre, for 10 points each. 
[10] Sartre imagined waiting at a cafe for an appointment with Pierre to illustrate this concept, the absence 
of things, which he paired with \"being.\" 
ANSWER:  
nothing 
ness [or le  
neant 
] 
[10] Also in  
Being and Nothingness 
, Sartre coined this term to describe defining one's identity solely in 
terms of a social role or occupation. 
ANSWER:  
bad faith 
 [or  
mauvaise foi 
] 
[10] Sartre also built on Locke's tabula rasa to come up with this statement, which is that humans are born 
blank slates and shape themselves via their choices and experiences. 
ANSWER:  
existence precedes essence 
 [or l' 
existence precede essence 
 l' ; be lenient with alternate answers, 
like  
existence before essence 
] 
020-13-83-12201  
2. In this play, a rake named Dorimant dumps his mistress Loveit to continue seeing Belinda, whom he also 
dumps to marry Harriet. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Restoration comedy by George Etherege, whose title character is the ridiculous Sir Fopling 
Flutter. 
ANSWER:  
The  Man of Mode 
[10] This author of the Restoration comedy  
The Rover 
 was the first woman to write plays professionally. 
She described a \"royal slave\" in  
Oroonoko 
. 
ANSWER: Aphra  
Behn 
[10] This Restoration author went into comedy with  
Marriage a la Mode 
 and also wrote satirical poems 
like \"Mac Flecknoe\" and  
Absalom and Achitophel. 
ANSWER: John  
Dryden 
080-13-83-12202  
3. Answer the following about memory research, for 10 points each. 
[10] Recent research has questioned whether these exceptionally detailed memories of important events, 
such as seeing 9/11, are actually any different from other memories. 
ANSWER:  
flashbulb 
 memories 
[10] This process occurs when a person speaks made-up information about their memories without any 
intention to lie or consciousness of what they’re doing. Amnesiacs with Korsakoff’s syndrome often do 
this. 
ANSWER:  
confabulation 
 [or  
confabulat 
ing] 
[10] A story about a 5-year-old child in this situation was used in a study by Elizabeth Loftus to show that 
priming and suggestion often lead people to report false memories. 
ANSWER: the child was  
lost 
 in the  
mall 
 [accept any answer involving a child being separated from his/her 
family and/or unaware of his/her location within a shopping center] 
104-13-83-12203  
NASAT 2013     12     Page  7 of 12 
4. One term in this equation equals the product of gravitational acceleration and specific impulse. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this equation which sets the change in velocity equal to the exhaust velocity times the natural 
log of the ratio of masses. It's sometimes named for Tsiolkovsky. 
ANSWER: Tsiolkovsky  
rocket 
 equation [or ideal  
rocket 
 equation] 
[10] The Tsiolkovsky rocket equation is derived from this equation of mechanics, which states that the time 
derivative of momentum equals the net force. 
ANSWER: Newton's  
second 
 law of motion [prompt on partial answer] 
[10] Allowing mass to be a function of time violates the classical relativity named for this physicist. 
According to this man's relativity, Newton's laws yield the same results in all inertial reference frames. 
ANSWER:  
Galileo 
 Galilei 
190-13-83-12204  
5. In a children's story written by this author, a girl's wish that it should be \"Christmas Every Day\" is 
granted for an entire year. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author who told the story of a paint magnate in  
The Rise of Silas Lapham 
. 
ANSWER: William Dean  
Howells 
[10]  
The Rise of Silas Lapham 
 mocked the rags-to-riches stories of this author, who published  
Ragged Dick 
and wrote almost exclusively in the genre. 
ANSWER: Horatio  
Alger 
[10] In this anti-capitalist novel, Howells wrote about Mr. Twelvemough, who hosts a visitor from an 
island much less selfish than the United States. 
ANSWER:  
A  Traveler from Altruria 
020-13-83-12205  
6. Pirate William Dampier was one of the first Europeans to see this Australian animal, which is 
scientifically known as  
C. atratus 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this animal that, while not a raven, was the subject of an argument in  
The Logic of Scientific 
Discovery 
 about the problems in \"inferring universal statements from singular ones.\" 
ANSWER:  
black swan 
s 
[10] In his diaries about exploring South America, this man praised William Dampier's observations about 
the differences between crocodiles and caymans. This naturalist wrote  
Kosmos 
 and has a current off South 
America named for him. 
ANSWER: Alexander von  
Humboldt 
[10] While visiting these islands, William Dampier ate some native tortoises, which isn't surprising as he 
was one of the first people to use the word barbecue in a written English sentence. Charles Darwin later 
visited these islands and studied some of their finches. 
ANSWER:  
Galapagos 
 Islands 
001-13-83-12206  
NASAT 2013     12     Page  8 of 12 
7. The biographer of this piece's composer likened it to \"Zeus hurling thunderbolts at the world.\" For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this 1831 solo piano work written during the Russian attack on Warsaw during the November 
Uprising. 
ANSWER:  
Revolutionary Etude 
 [or  
Etude No. 12 
, Op. 10] 
[10] The  
Revolutionary Etude 
 is part of the Opus 10 of this prolific Polish pianist of many nocturnes, 
mazurkas, waltzes, and polonaises. 
ANSWER: Frederic Francois  
Chopin 
[10] Give the opus number of Chopin's other etude collection, dedicated to Marie d'Agoult, which includes 
pieces nicknamed \"Ocean,\" \"Butterfly,\" and \"Wrong Note.\" 
ANSWER:  
Etudes Op.  25 
020-13-83-12207  
8. The RINGO/Speedy family activates these proteins, whose consensus sequence is S slash TPXK slash R. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these evolutionarily conserved enzymes that regulate the cell cycle by binding to a namesake 
small protein. 
ANSWER:  
cyclin-dependent kinase 
s [or  
cdk 
s; do not accept or prompt on \"cyclin\"] 
[10] CDK-1 operates during this process, a form of cell division which produces two diploid cells from 
one. 
ANSWER:  
mitosis 
[10] Hopefully, CDK inhibitors cause less collateral damage against cancer cells than this class of steroid 
hormones, including dexamethasone, that upregulate anti-inflammatory proteins. 
ANSWER:  
glucocorticoid 
s [or  
GC 
s] 
020-13-83-12208  
9. This event was covered by the first female war correspondent, Sarah Wilson. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 217-day siege in which Robert Baden-Powell withstood attacks by Piet Cronje's forces until 
he was relieved on May 17, 1900. It was considered a turning point in the war of which it was a part. 
ANSWER: Siege of  
Mafeking 
[10] The Siege of Mafeking was part of a namesake conflict between the British and these 
Afrikaans-speaking Dutch settlers who lived in the Transvaal Republic and Orange Free State. 
ANSWER:  
Boer 
s [or Second Anglo- 
Boer 
 War] 
[10] This top hat sporting president of the South African Republic got mad at the aborted Jameson Raid 
against his country. He led Transvaal during the Anglo-Boer War and is the namesake of a gold coin. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Kruger 
 [or Stephanus Johannes Paulus  
Kruger 
] 
052-13-83-12209  
10. In a recruiting poster, this man points at the audience and asks \"Who's Absent? Is it You?\" For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this stout man who dresses like a country squire. He is the British equivalent of Uncle Sam and 
represents England in many political cartoons. 
ANSWER:  
John Bull 
[10] In one political cartoon, John Bull walks off with Marianne, a young woman representing this country. 
She made her first major appearance on medals celebrating the storming of the Bastille. 
ANSWER:  
France French Republic 
 [ ; or  
Republique Francaise 
] 
[10] John Bull frequently featured in the cartoons of James Gillray. Gillray depicted this man dining with a 
Frenchman in \"The Plum Pudding in Danger,\" in which two men divide up the world. 
ANSWER: William  
Pitt, the Younger 
 [prompt on  
Pitt 
] 
052-13-83-12210  
NASAT 2013     12     Page  9 of 12 
11. The most prominent member of this group was Mississippi's James Alcorn. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this pejorative term used to describe Southern whites who supported Reconstruction after the 
Civil War. As opposed to carpetbaggers, these were native Southerners. 
ANSWER:  
scalawag 
s 
[10] Another major scalawag was former Confederate General James Longstreet, who notably disagreed 
with Robert E. Lee over ordering Pickett's Charge at this three-day Civil War battle. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Gettysburg 
[10] This author has written multiple books on Reconstruction, including the award-winning 1988 book  
Reconstruction: America's Unfinished Revolution 
. This Columbia professor won the 2011 Pulitzer for 
History for his 2010 work  
The Fiery Trial 
. 
ANSWER: Eric  
Foner 
052-13-83-12211  
12. Answer the following about gold mining in the U.S., for 10 points each. 
[10] The original “Mother Lode” was located in the northern region of this state’s Mariposa County. This 
state’s capital was founded after gold was found near Sutter’s Mill. 
ANSWER:  
California 
[10] Today, 78% of gold mining in the US occurs in this state, whose Goldstrike Mine is the largest in 
North America. Two-thirds of this state’s inhabitants live in Clark County. 
ANSWER:  
Nevada 
[10] The first gold rush in the US occurred in this Northern Georgia city, where M.F. Stephenson allegedly 
claimed, “There’s gold in them thar hills.” 
ANSWER:  
Dahlonega 
190-13-83-12212  
13. For 10 points each, answer the following about Old English poetry. 
[10] These exocentric compound words are poetic devices that figuratively describe an underlying noun. In  
Beowulf 
, examples include “whale-road” and \"ring-giver.\" 
ANSWER:  
kenning 
s 
[10] This technique was used rather than rhyme in Old English poems such as  
Beowulf 
, which employs it to 
link the two half-lines of a given poetic line. 
ANSWER:  
alliteration 
 [or  
alliterative 
 verse] 
[10] This poem, found in the Exeter Book, is mostly narrated by a figure who laments his life on the “paths 
of exile.” It notes that \"fate is inexorable\" in its opening lines, a brief prologue in the author's voice. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Wanderer 
\" 
104-13-83-12213  
14. This goddess finally discovered her husband trapped in a chest after she traveled to Byblos. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this Egyptian goddess who reassembled her husband Osiris after he was cut to pieces by Set. 
ANSWER:  
Isis 
 [or  
Aset 
] 
[10] Isis, Hathor, and pretty much every other Egyptian goddess sometimes function as this counterpart to 
the sun god Ra. In that role, they are known as this body part \"of Ra.\" 
ANSWER: the  
eye 
 of Ra 
[10] This other goddess who is sometimes the eye of Ra was considered the protector of Lower Egypt. She 
was depicted in the  
uraeus 
 on the Pharaoh's crown. 
ANSWER:  
Wadjet 
023-13-83-12214  
NASAT 2013     12     Page  10 of 12 
15. Writers in this language included the Romantic poet Adam Oehlenschläger. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this language in which Hans Christian Andersen wrote his fairy tales. 
ANSWER:  
Danish 
 [or  
Dansk 
] 
[10] Danish writer Isak Dinesen included \"The Supper at Elsinore\" and \"The Monkey\" in this set of creepy 
short stories. 
ANSWER:  
Seven Gothic Tales 
[10] In Andersen's story \"The Little Match Girl,\" after the title character's last match burns out, this figure 
takes her to heaven after being shown to be more beautiful and tall than ever. 
ANSWER: the Little Match Girl's  
grandmother 
192-13-83-12215  
16. In one of this man's books, he records claims that a certain ruler is actually a monster with a vanishing 
head. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Byzantine scholar who wrote a notorious  
Secret History 
 about Justinian. 
ANSWER:  
Procopius 
 of Caesarea 
[10] In his other work,  
Buildings of Justinian 
, Procopius talks about such Byzantine buildings as this 
church, later turned into a mosque, and now an Istanbul museum. Justinian reportedly said \"Solomon, I 
have outdone thee!\" after it was finished. 
ANSWER:  
Hagia Sophia 
 [or  
Sancta Sophia 
; or  
Ayasofya 
; or Church of the  
Divine Wisdom 
; or Church 
of the  
Holy Wisdom 
] 
[10] This Bishop of Caesarea wrote a less salacious  
Ecclesiastical History 
, the first major Christian history. 
He wrote an unfinished yet highly flattering  
Life of Constantine 
. 
ANSWER:  
Eusebius 
 of Caesarea [or  
Eusebius 
 Pamphili] 
052-13-83-12216  
17. Alfred Werner pioneered the chemistry of these substances, for 10 points each. 
[10] Name these compounds consisting of an anionic or neutral ligand compound attached to a central 
metal atom. 
ANSWER:  
coordination 
 compounds [or  
coordination complex 
es; or  
metal complex 
es] 
[10] Because d orbital electrons in the metals of coordination complexes are often excited to a higher 
energy state, the compounds display a wide variety of this property. This property changes for an indicator 
in its pH range. 
ANSWER:  
color 
[10] These diagrams, named for two Japanese chemists, are used to calculate the visible, IR, and UV 
spectra of coordination complexes. 
ANSWER:  
Tanabe-Sugano 
 diagrams 
020-13-83-12217  
18. On October 14, 2012, this Austrian became the first human to break the sound barrier without a vehicle. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this skydiver whose drop from a helium balloon down to earth 24 miles below set the record for 
the highest successful parachute jump. 
ANSWER: Felix  
Baumgartner 
[10] Baumgartner's jump took place through this energy drink company's Stratos project. This company 
also hosts \"Flugtag\" and Crashed Ice competitions. 
ANSWER:  
Red Bull 
[10] In 2007, Baumgartner became the first person to BASE jump off of this building, which is named for 
its number of floors. 
ANSWER:  
Taipei 101 
023-13-83-12218  
NASAT 2013     12     Page  11 of 12 
19. When given an input of e to the a t, this operation yields one over s minus a. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this transformation that converts functions from the time domain to s-domain. It involves 
integrating the product of a function times e to the negative s times t, from zero to infinity. 
ANSWER:  
Laplace 
 transform 
[10] The Laplace transform applied to this function, when it hasn't been shifted, is equal to one. 
ANSWER: Dirac  
delta 
 function 
[10] Laplace transforms are commonly used to solve these equations, which may also be solved using 
separation of variables or with integrating factors. They can be ordinary or partial. 
ANSWER:  
differential 
 equations 
190-13-83-12219  
20. In one painting by this artist, two men whisper near a Biblical woman, who turns away in disgust. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this painter of a version of  
Susanna and the Elders 
 who also painted a woman from Bethulia 
enlisting the aid of her maidservant in  
Judith Beheading Holofernes 
. 
ANSWER: Artemisia  
Gentileschi 
[10] Gentileschi's depiction of Judith beheading Holofernes was influenced by a version from this master of 
chiaroscuro and tenebrism, whose own works include a series on Saint Matthew and  
The Supper at 
Emmaus 
. 
ANSWER:  
Caravaggio 
 [or Michelangelo  
Merisi 
] 
[10] This artist, Artemisia's father, originally received credit for  
Susanna and the Elders 
. He painted 
frescoes for a destroyed casino in Genoa before moving to Paris and then London. 
ANSWER:  razio Lomi Gentileschi [or  
O Orazio 
 Gentileschi; prompt on  
Gentileschi 
] 
023-13-83-12220  
21. In the aftermath of this battle, Grand Duke Nikolai told an attache from France, \"It's an honour to make 
such a sacrifice for our allies.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1914 battle in East Prussia, at which General Samsonov committed suicide after his isolated 
Russian Second Army was destroyed by the Germans. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Tannenberg 
[10] Soon after the Battle of Tannenberg, this German commander won the Battle of the Masurian Lakes. 
He later became president of the Weimar Republic and served as the namesake of an overly-combustible 
zeppelin. 
ANSWER: Paul von  
Hindenburg 
[10] In this 1916 effort, Russians used shock troops to break through the Austrian lines, capturing 25,000 
square miles of territory. Romania joined the Allies after hearing of this offensive, but the Germans 
responded by capturing Bucharest. 
ANSWER:  
Brusilov 
 Offensive 
080-13-83-12221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     12     Page  12 of 12 
