NASAT 2011 
Round 2 
Tossups 
1. This artist painted a woman sitting on some clouds and having her left breast fondled by a disembodied 
hand in  
Honey is Sweeter than Blood 
. He painted a flower growing from a cracked egg that crowns a silver 
construction right next to an identical gold one in another painting. This artist of  
Soft Construction with 
Boiled Beans 
 and  
The Metamorphosis of Narcissus 
 also painted a Sphinx with the head of Shirley Temple, 
as well as a painting that includes twenty-eight Venus de Milos and conveys the spirit of bullfighting.  
The 
Hallucenogenic Toreador 
 is not as famous as his depiction of four melting clocks. For 10 points each, 
name this painter of  
The Persistence of Memory 
, a Spanish surrealist. 
ANSWER: Salvador Domenec Felip Jacint  
Dali 
 i Domenech, Marquis of Dali de Pubol 
020-11-30-02102 
2. One application of this law is assessing the purity of a DNA sample after a phenol-chloroform extraction 
by measuring the 260 to 280 ratio, and both the Bradford and Lowry assays make use of this law. Sample 
turbidity and the use of polychromatic radiation make this law inapplicable, and one term in this law is 
expressed in molarity over centimeters and is known as the extinction coefficient. This law states that the 
log of a light’s initial intensity over its measured intensity is equal to the concentration of a species 
multiplied by the distance traveled by the light times its absorptivity, and is commonly used in 
spectrophotometers. For 10 points, name this law of chemistry sometimes named for Lambert and Bouger 
that can be used to find the absorbance or transmittance of a solution. 
ANSWER:  
Beer 
-Lambert-Bouger Law 
023-11-30-02103 
3. With Simon Kuznets, this man looked at the income levels of professionals like lawyers and dentists and 
concluded that the presence of the American Medical Association helped artificially boost the salaries of 
doctors. This man argued that temporary changes in economic conditions or policies had unusually small 
impacts on consumer habits in  
A Theory of the Consumption Function 
, which outlined his permanent 
income hypothesis. Chapters like “The Cure For Inflation” appear in a book he co-authored titled  
Free to 
Choose 
. With Anna J. Schwartz, this man argued that bad policies by the Federal Reserve greatly 
exacerbated the Great Depression in his  
A Monetary History of the United States 
. For 10 points, name this 
Chicago school economist, the author of  
Capitalism and Freedom 
. 
ANSWER: Milton  
Friedman 
094-11-30-02104 
4. The protagonist of one of this author’s novels asks her admirer to search for her fictitious childhood 
friend, Enola Gay, who gave birth to “Little Boy” after being raped. In that work, the mediocre author 
Samson Young watches as Nicola Six tries to become the “murderee” of her former suitor, Keith. In 
another of his novels, subtitled “A Suicide Note,” the hedonistic Brit John Self is conned into moving to 
New York to work on a nonexistent film. Another of his novels follows Dr. Tod Friendly, who is revealed 
to have been the Nazi doctor Odilo Undverdorben, and is told in reverse chronology. For 10 points, name 
this author of  
London Fields Money 
,  , and  
Time’s Arrow 
, whose father wrote  
Lucky Jim 
. 
ANSWER:  artin  
M Amis 
080-11-30-02105 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  1 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This man used a curse placed upon him by Urvashi to become a eunuch for a year of his choosing as a 
means of disguise. After serving as a tutor in that disguise, this man married his son Abhimanyu to the 
daughter of Raja Virata. This man recognized Shiva in a fight and was rewarded with a weapon, the 
pashupata. This man used skills he learned from Drona to win his wife and killed his half-brother Karna 
while in battle against the Kauravas. This son of Indra also spent 13 years in exile with his four brothers 
and their wife Draupadi. For 10 points, name this Pandava, the hero of the Mahabharata, whose charioteer 
was Krishna. 
ANSWER:  
Arjuna 
 [or  
Bibhatsu Gudakesa Dhananjaya Jishnu Kiritin Pakasasani Phalguna 
;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  ;  
Savyasachin Swetavahana Partha 
;  ;  ] 
105-11-30-02106 
6. John Randolph claimed that the burden of one act of this type would be placed “upon poor men and upon 
slaveholders.” That one was named for Alexander Dallas. Another act of this type was the first of James K. 
Polk’s ‘four great measures’ and was named for Polk’s brother-in-law. Woodrow Wilson appeared in 
1913 before Congress in person to support a new one. Another act of this type modified one developed four 
years earlier by William McKinley. Aside from those named for Underwood and Wilson and Gorman, 
another example of this act includes one that may have worsened the Great Depression. For 10 points, 
name these taxes on imports or exports, one of which is named for Hawley and Smoot. 
ANSWER:  
tariff 
s 
024-11-30-02107 
7. In one of this author's novels the millionaire's Conrad is killed by a stray bullet in a streetcar strike when 
he tries to prevent a policeman from beating an elderly German socialist. In that novel Angus Beaton's 
proposal is rejected by Alma Leighton, while this author wrote about Mr. Twelvemough hosting a foreign 
visitor in  
A Traveler from Altruria 
. He wrote about the deteriorating marriage between Bartley Hubbard 
and Marcia Gaylord in one novel, while Henry Lindau and Colonel Dryfoos argue over the magazine  
Every 
Other Week 
 in his novel about Basil March. This author of  
A Modern Instance 
 wrote about a man who tries 
to marry his daughter Irene into the Corey family before he loses his fortune in the paint industry. For 10 
points, name this American author of  
A Hazard of New Fortunes 
 and  
The Rise of Silas Lapham 
. 
ANSWER: William Dean  
Howells 
064-11-30-02108 
8. Mutation of ABC R cause a rare juvenile form of this condition caused by lipofuschin buildup, known as 
Stargardt’ disease. Mutations in fibulin-5 and complement factor H have been associated with this disease, 
which can be diagnosed using the Amsler Grid Test. Lucentis and Avastatin treat it by inhibiting VEGF, 
and this disease is caused by aberrant growth of blood vessels in the choroid. Drusen are another symptom 
of this disease, whose sufferers also experience scotomas, or floaters. It comes in wet and dry forms, and its 
hallmark symptom is breakdown of the namesake region of the retina. For 10 points, name this condition 
which causes loss of central vision, a leading cause of blindness. 
ANSWER:  
Macular degeneration 
048-11-30-02109 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  2 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. This region is drained by the Godavari river and is made primarily of basalt. The mantle plume that 
created this region may have also formed the Reunion Hot Spot. This region is home to a series of hills 
called the “traps”, which are the remains of the massive volcanic eruption that created this plateau 67 
million years ago, and which was once suspected of killing the dinosaurs. This region is separated from the 
sea by a mountain chain called the Western Ghats. Mineral wealth, including gold, is mined in this 
plateau’s Golkonda region. Many people in this region speak Kannada or Telugu, and cities here include 
Bangalore. For 10 points, name this plateau in southern India. 
ANSWER:  
Deccan 
 plateau [or  
Deccan 
 lava flats] 
021-11-30-02110 
10. This battle began immediately after the destruction of the losing side's rear guard, which had been 
charged with defending a retreat from Orleans. One leader in this battle, Sangiban, was intentionally placed 
in the center of one side's line to prevent his defection. Thorismund became king of the Visigoths after the 
death of Theodoric during this battle, which also saw the Gepids under Ardaric fail to hold against the 
Roman Army under Flavius Aetius. The loser of this battle renewed his invasion the next year, only to be 
stopped by a meeting with Pope Leo I. For 10 points, name this 451 battle that fought back Atilla the Hun's 
invasion of Western Europe. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Chalons 
 [or Battle of  
Catalaunian Plains 
] 
003-11-30-02111 
11. This element's forbidden spectral lines include 496 and 501 nanometers. Isotope ratios of this element 
distinguish K and R meterorites and identical isotope ratios of it are important evidence for the Giant 
Impact Hypothesis. Studies by the HST have shown that the trace atmosphere of Ganymede is composed of 
compounds of this element. A defining characteristic of carbon stars is that they have more carbon than this 
element. The burning process of this in stars creates silicon. The Bethe-Weizsäcker-cycle uses this element 
as a catalyst along with nitrogen and carbon. For 10 points, name this element whose diatom form is the 
second most abundant gas in Earth's atmosphere. 
ANSWER:  
oxygen 
001-11-30-02112 
12. Gabriel helps this man interpret a prophecy of Jeremiah that predicts seventy weeks in the history of the 
Israelites. This man’s vision of a ram fighting a goat represents the kingdoms of Greece and Persia, but he 
declares that “only the Kingdom of God” will endure forever after interpreting a dream of an idol with feet 
made of iron and clay. This man exposes the fraudulent worship of Bel, sees three of his companions 
thrown into a furnace for refusing to bow to an idol of Nebuchadnezzar, and interprets the writing on the 
wall at Belshazzar’s Feast. For 10 points, name this prophet who also survived a night in the lion’s den. 
ANSWER:  
Daniel 
079-11-30-02113 
13. This composer of a  
Grand pot-pourri 
 for cello created a cantata about God's creation of sound called  
Der erste Ton 
. Long after his death, one of this composer's concert waltzes was used for the ballet  
Le 
Spectre de la Rose 
. His piano works include his  
Momento Capriccioso 
 in B-Flat major and his  
Konzertstuck in F minor 
. In one of his operas, the \"Huntsmen's Chorus\" is sung before Zamiel guides a 
bullet towards Agathe, only for it to bounce off her bridal garment and kill Kaspar. Berlioz orchestrated this 
composer's  
Invitation to the Dance 
. For 10 points, name this early eighteenth century composer who 
pioneered German Romantic opera by writing  
Der Freischütz 
. 
ANSWER: Carl Maria Von  
Weber 
001-11-30-02114 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  3 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. This man argued for the incompleteness of geometry because of the inability of the human eye to 
distinguish between rays and lines. This thinker argued that ideas can only be compared to ideas, not 
objects, in his \"Likeness Argument.\" A noted limerick about a tree in the quad was composed to mock this 
man's \"Master Argument.\" Known for championing tar-water as medicine, this author of a  
Treatise 
Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge 
 rejected John Locke and the ideas of materialism in favor 
of idealism. For 10 points, name this Irish bishop who wrote  
 Three Dialogues Between Hylas and 
Philonous  
. 
ANSWER: George  
Berkeley 
033-11-30-02115 
15. One character in this novel serves the protagonist a rancid seafood meal as she recounts how her 
girlfriend had been killed. A nun in a bathtub cuts open her stomach and scrubs the entrails in this novel. Its 
narrator discovers that political dissidents were sent to inferior retirement homes and hears a man proclaim 
that \"nature inevitably takes revenge\" when assaulted by projects such as the Three Gorges Dam. The 
author of this autobiographical novel had hopped on a ramshackle bus to the south after being falsely 
diagnosed with lung cancer. The characters in this novel are only voices with the names \"He,\" \"She,\" 
\"You,\" and \"I.\" For 10 points, name this novel set in a Chinese location called Lingshan and written by Gao 
Xingjian. 
ANSWER:  
Soul Mountain 
 [accept  
Lingshan 
 before it is mentioned] 
020-11-30-02116 
16. An emperor from this Chinese dynasty was defeated and captured by barbarians during the Tumu 
Crisis. This dynasty passed the Hai Jin laws and faced costal threats from the wokou, a group of Japanese 
pirates. This Chinese dynasty included the Yongle Emperor, and it also intervened in the Imjin War, 
helping Korea fight off an invasion from Japan. This dynasty ended after an invasion from the north led by 
Nurhachi. This dynasty was founded by the Hongwu Emperor, who defeated the Mongols. Although this 
dynasty sponsored the voyages of Zheng He, it would later ban all trade. For 10 points, Chinese dynasty 
that came between the Yuan and Manchu and is associated with vases. 
ANSWER:  
Ming 
 dynasty 
021-11-30-02117 
17. A distribution function given for these materials is proportional to temperature raised to the three halves 
power and a constant equal to about 4.83 times ten to the twenty first power. Because of diffusion, parts of 
these materials can reach an equilibrium like state called a depletion region. Examples of these materials 
which are pure are called intrinsic and include mercury cadmium telluride. Depending on how they are 
modified, they can be called p or n type and have modified Fermi levels indicating a shift in their band gap. 
Gallium arsenide is a common example of these materials which have their properties altered through the 
introduction of impurities in a process called doping. For 10 points, name these materials that have 
properties between an insulator and a conductor. 
ANSWER:  
semiconductor 
064-11-30-02118 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  4 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. This play ends with one of its two choruses mockingly praising Cleophon for fighting so far from his 
homeland. One character is not allowed on a boat because of his earlier cowardice in which he did not fight 
in the Battle of Arginusae. The main character of this play attains a club and dons a lion hide, which makes 
Plathane and her mistress mistake him for Hercules. This play features the constantly complaining slave 
Xanthias. The central character of this work is charged with determining whether Euripides or Aeschylus is 
the better playwright. The title chorus in this work sings the nonsense chant \"Brekekekex koax koax.\" For 
10 points, name this Aristophanes play in which Dionysus visits the underworld. 
ANSWER:  
The  Frogs 
 [or  
 Batrachoi 
] 
015-11-30-02119 
19. In one of the treaties which ended this war, one side ceded Bremen to Hanover and much of Pomerania 
to Prussia. One side’s navy accomplished its first ever naval victory at the Battle of Gangut. The Ottomans 
temporarily entered this war but withdrew after their victory in the Pruth River Campaign. Poland's 
Augustus the Strong was forced to abdicate after bowing out of this war with the Treaty of Altranstadt. One 
side in this conflict was led by Charles XII, who defeated the Danes and won at Narva before losing at 
Poltava and dying in 1718. For 10 points, name this war between Sweden and a coalition led by Russia’s 
Peter the Great. 
ANSWER:  
Great Northern War 
 [or  
Second Northern War 
] 
015-11-30-02120 
20. This architect designed the University Branch of the Iranian National Bank. His son Jan and daughter 
Lin worked with him on a corrugated aluminum church and other projects. This architect modeled 
traditional farmhouses for his Kingo Houses. He spent twelve years working on a project that was burned 
up by retreating Iraqi forces, his National Assembly building of Kuwait. His best known work contains a 
John Olsen mural entitled  
Salute to Five Bells 
 and was finished by Ove Arup after budget issues forced this 
man to resign. That work is located on Bennelong Point and features a roof consisting of concrete panels 
shaped to resemble shells. For 10 points, name this architect who designed the Sydney Opera House. 
ANSWER: Jorn Oberg  
Utzon 
088-11-30-02121 
21. The lack of oxidation of this and uranium minerals from Elliot Lake, Canada has been used as evidence 
of low oxygen levels during the Paleoproterozoic era. Bravoite is a nickel version of this mineral. In anoxic 
sediments, it is believed that this mineral is formed using a greigite intermediate from mackinawite. Ore 
bodies of this mineral are colonized and oxidized by  
Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans 
 and that oxidation is 
one of the main causes of acid mine drainage. This is found in hydrothermal deposits and is one of the most 
common sulfide minerals. For 10 points, name this mineral with formula FeS2 and sometimes called \"fool's 
gold.\" 
ANSWER:  
pyrite 
 [prompt on  
fool's gold 
] 
001-11-30-02122 
22. One part of this treaty called for the removal of troops from the Aaland Islands and the demolition of 
fortresses that had been built on them. One section of this treaty specified the return of Kars, Batumi, and 
Ardahan to the Ottoman Empire. Another section provided for the creation of a Democratic Republic of 
Armenia, which was nullified when the Ottomans invaded it several months later. Invalidated by both 
signatories within a year, much of the content in this treaty was reworked by the later Treaty of Rapallo. In 
it, one side renounced claims to Finland, the Baltic states, and Poland, and agreed to pay a large sum to 
compensate the other side's business interests. For 10 points, name this treaty between Germany and Russia 
that ended the eastern front of World War I. 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Brest-Litovsk 
040-11-30-02123 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  5 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
23. At the end of this work, several of the main characters go to a teahouse to visit the tomb of a former 
leader; the tomb notes that the followers of that leader will one day lead an uprising. One character in this 
work had fallen asleep while on duty and had threatened to eat a superior officer after being punished. This 
work focuses on an object composed of a bed, an inscriber and a harrow whose use is less popular with the 
current commandant. The phrase “be just” is written on a certain device in this work, whose fours 
characters are the explorer, the soldier, the officer and the condemned man. For 10 points, name this Franz 
Kafka short story that takes place in a prison. 
ANSWER: “ 
In the Penal Colony 
” [or “ 
In der Strafkolonie 
”] 
064-11-30-02124 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  6 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 2 
Bonuses 
1. This man worked with Benedict Arnold to take Ticonderoga. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who led the Green Mountain Boys with Seth Warner. 
ANSWER: Ethan  
Allen 
[10] This other Vermonter was a Senator who introduced the bill that granted funding and property to 
dozens of his namesake “land grant” colleges. 
ANSWER: Justin Smith  
Morrill 
[10] William A. Palmer became governor of Vermont on this party’s ticket in 1831. Its most successful 
presidential candidate was William Wirt. 
ANSWER:  
Anti-Masonic 
 Party 
015-11-30-02201 
2. This man's  
 Parnassus  
 idyllicly depicts Venus and Mars, although he is better known for his series  
 The 
Triumphs of Caesar 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painter of a foreshortened Jesus, which is found in his  
 The Dead Christ  
. 
ANSWER: Andrea  
Mantegna 
[10] Andrea Mantegna's masterpiece, the so called  
 Camera degli Sposi  
 is found in the Palazzo Ducale of 
this city. It is in this city where you can see Mantegna's cherubim that seem to descend from an oculus. 
ANSWER:  
Mantua 
[10] Mantegna also painted this woman, who holds the head of Holofernes in a scene painted by Artemisia 
Gentileschi and many other artists. 
ANSWER:  
Judith 
033-11-30-02202 
3. A cadet branch of this dynasty ruled the Italian duchy of Montferrat. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this house whose members included Manuel II, who was controversially quoted by the Pope 
in 2006, and Michael VIII, who ascended to the throne after expelling the Latin Empire from 
Constantinople. 
ANSWER:  
Paleologus 
 Dynasty [or  
Paleologi 
 ; or  
Palelogue 
] 
[10] The last Byzantine emperor of the Paleologus dynasty was this man, who was killed when the empire 
fell to the Ottomans in 1453. 
ANSWER:  
Constantine XI 
 [prompt on  
Constantine 
] 
[10] The Paleologus dynasty lived on in the Russian tsars, because this niece of Constantine married Ivan 
III, leading to Moscow’s claim to be the “third Rome.” 
ANSWER:  
Zoe 
 [or  
Sophia 
] 
019-11-30-02203 
4. Some symptoms of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome can be controlled using allopurinol. For 10 points each: 
[10] Those symptoms refer to the arthritic joint inflammation associated with insoluble crystal deposits that 
result from this disease. 
ANSWER:  
gout 
[10] Gout is caused by high levels of this waste product of purine breakdown, excreted by birds, reptiles, 
and primates like you. Other organisms convert it to urea or ammonia. 
ANSWER:  
uric acid 
 or  
urate 
[do not accept or prompt on \"urine\"] 
[10] One drug commonly used to treat gout, alongside steriods and NSAIDs, is this alkaloid. It binds to 
microtubule monomers and prevents them from polymerizing, thus stopping cell division. 
ANSWER:  
colchicine 
003-11-30-02204 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  7 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This scientist discovered the Auger effect before Auger did and co-discovered uranium fission with her 
nephew Otto Frisch. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this collaborator of Otto Hahn. 
ANSWER: Lise  
Meitner 
[10] Meitner was a student of this physicist whose transport equation describes the evolution of the single 
particle distribution function for a gas. He also developed the H theorem. 
ANSWER: Ludwig Eduard  
Boltzmann 
[10] Boltzmann names a distribution for particle velocities in an ideal gas with this man. 
ANSWER: James Clerk  
Maxwell 
001-11-30-02205 
6. This author created a series of novels centered around the character Enderby. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author who also wrote  
Earthly Powers 
. 
ANSWER: Anthony  
Burgess 
 [or John Burgess  
Wilson 
] 
[10] Burgess is clearly better known for this work, in which the violent Alex is arrested and undergoes the 
Ludovico technique. 
ANSWER:  
A  Clockwork Orange 
[10] In  
A Clockwork Orange 
, this invented language is spoken by the members of Alex's gang. 
ANSWER:  
Nadsat 
088-11-30-02206 
7. This fault intersects with the Garlock fault and Movement along it caused major earthquakes in 1906 and 
1989. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this major fault of California. 
ANSWER:  
San Andreas 
 Fault 
[10] The San Andreas Fault is this type of strike-slip fault where no change in the amount of lithosphere 
occurs. They see the plates move horizontally with respect to one another. 
ANSWER:  
transform 
 fault 
[10] This major earthquake of San Andreas Fault on October 17th, 1989 is known by this name. It is named 
for the peak in the Santa Cruz Mountains where the epicenter was located. 
ANSWER:  
Loma Prieta 
 Earthquake 
001-11-30-02207 
8. This deity killed Thrym after disguising himself as Freya to retrieve Mjollnir. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Norse thunder god. 
ANSWER:  
Thor 
[10] At the palace of Utgard-Loki, Thor could not pick up one of these animals, which was actually the 
Midgard Serpent. Freya's chariot is pulled by these animals. 
ANSWER:  
cats 
[10] Thor receives a cauldron for Aegir's feast by throwing a goblet at this giant, with whom he goes 
fishing for the Midgard Serpent. 
ANSWER:  
Hymir 
080-11-30-02208 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  8 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. Two of this man's son, Nadab and Abihu, were killed for bringing a \"strange fire\" into the tabernacle. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this Biblical leader, head of the Levites and brother of Moses. 
ANSWER:  
Aaron 
[10] Moses's sister was this woman, who watched him after he was set adrift on the Nile and later sang a 
victory song after the Israelite escape from Israel. 
ANSWER:  
Miriam 
[10] This priest of the Midianites is Moses's father-in-law. He names the portion of the book of Exodus in 
which the Israelites receive the Torah at Mt. Sinai. 
ANSWER:  
Jethro 
 or  
Yitro 
081-11-30-02209 
10. This commander of the photographic division of the American Expeditionary Force during World War 
I had a 1913 double issue of  
Camera Work 
 devoted to his work. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this photographer of  
The Pond - Moonlight 
, a pioneer of fashion photography who co-founded 
the Photo-Secession movement. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Steichen 
 [or Eduard Jean  
Steichen 
] 
[10] Steichen organized this immensely popular 1955 photographic exhibition of over five hundred 
photographs submitted from sixty-eight countries, which was meant to \"cover the gamut of human 
relations.\" 
ANSWER:  
The  Family of Man 
[10] Among the photographs exhibited at the  
Family of Man 
 exhibition was this artist's  
Migrant Mother 
, 
the most iconic of her photographs depicting Depression families. 
ANSWER: Dorothea  
Lange 
003-11-30-02210 
11. Name these Japanese novels, for 10 points each. 
[10] In this Kawabata novel, the wealthy protagonist falls in love with the geisha Komako in a hot spring 
town that is presumed to be Yuzawa. 
ANSWER:  
Snow Country 
 [or  
Yukiguni 
] 
[10] In this Shusaku Endo novel, two Portuguese Jesuits are tortured to the point of renouncing their faith 
by the Japanese authorities. 
ANSWER:  
Silence 
 [or  
Chinmoku 
] 
[10] In this Tanizaki novel, Kaname is fascinated with America and urges his wife to have an affair after 
losing his passion for her. 
ANSWER:  
Some Prefer Nettles 
 [or  
Tade Ku Mushi 
] 
015-11-30-02211 
12. Safety in a chemistry lab is very important. For 10 points each: 
[10] Chemicals are accompanied by this type of form with a four letter abbreviation, which provides basic 
chemical properties and safety and handling tips. 
ANSWER:  
material safety data sheet 
 [or  
MSDS 
] 
[10] NFPA 704 is a type of symbol which in part gives information about this property for a compound. 
This property indicated by the color red for the NFPA 704 is high for fuels like propane. 
ANSWER:  
flammability 
 [accept equivalents like  
flammable 
] 
[10] This compound has a blue value of 4 for the NFPA 704, indicating that it is extremely lethal. This gas 
consists of a carbon double bonded to oxygen and single bonded to two chlorine atoms. 
ANSWER:  
phosgene 
 [prompt on \"carbonyl dichloride\"] 
064-11-30-02212 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  9 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. He wrote about three old men who miraculously run across water to catch the archbishop's departing 
ship in his story \"Three Hermits\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Russian author of \"Master and Man\" whose other stories \"How Much Land Does a Man 
Need\" and “Sevastopol in December.” 
ANSWER: Leo  
Tolstoy 
[10] This Tolstoy character has a friend named Schartz and a daughter named Lisa but is comforted only by 
his servant Gerasim as he dies. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan 
 Ilyich [or Ivan  
Ilyich 
] 
[10] The title character of this story is abusively overworked by his parents who give him the title 
demeaning nickname and block his marriage to Ustinya because they fear it would hurt his productivity. 
ANSWER: \" 
Alyosha the Pot 
\" [or \" 
Alyosha Gorshok 
\"] 
015-11-30-02213 
14. This man employed Einhard as his court historian and was a patron to the scholar Alcuin. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this son of Pepin the Short. 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
 [or  
Charles the Great 
] 
[10] This son of Charlemagne was known for his godliness and inherited the Frankish empire on 
Charlemagne’s death. His sons Lothair I, Louis II, and Charles the Bald split the kingdom up. 
ANSWER:  
Louis the Pious 
 [or  
Louis I 
; prompt on  
Louis 
] 
[10] In exchange for the protection offered by Charlemagne, Pope Leo III crowned Charlemagne with this 
four-word English title on Christmas Day in 800 CE. 
ANSWER: \" 
Emperor of the Romans 
\" 
015-11-30-02214 
15. One character in this poem cries \"Don’t, don’t, don’t, don’t\" before shrinking from her husband's 
arms. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem published in  
North of Boston 
 about a husband who tells his wife \"I’ll follow and 
bring you back by force\" when she tries to leave the house to avoid talking about their dead son. 
ANSWER: \" 
Home Burial 
\" 
[10] This author of \"Home Burial\" commented on the adage \"Good fences make good neighbors\" in his 
poem \"Mending Wall.\" 
ANSWER: Robert  
Frost 
[10] This Frost poem discusses a \"boy too far from town to learn baseball\" and concludes \"One could do 
worse than be a swinger of\" the title objects. 
ANSWER: \" 
Birches 
\" 
015-11-30-02215 
16. He signed the treaty of Tilsit and formed the Holy Alliance. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Tsar of Russia during the Napoleonic Wars. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander I 
 [prompt on  
Alexander 
] 
[10] After the death of Alexander I, his younger brother Nicholas I became Tsar. In response, several 
thousand soldiers staged this revolt in 1825. 
ANSWER:  
Decembrist 
 revolt 
[10] The Decembrist revolt was caused by a succession controversy after this man, Nicholas’s brother and 
next in line to rule, renounced his claim to the throne. 
ANSWER: Grand Duke  
Constantine 
100-11-30-02216 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  10 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. Tartaglia developed solutions to the cubic type of this mathematical object. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these sums of powers of a variable with each power term having its own coefficient. 
ANSWER:  
polynomial 
[10] The set of polynomials over a field forms one of these abstract types. These are sets with two 
associative operations such that there is distributivity and one operation is commutative plus has inverses. 
ANSWER:  
ring 
[10] For a polynomial with coefficients a sub zero through a sub n, this method evaluates the polynomial by 
defining b sub i equal to a sub i plus b sub n, where b sub n is a n and b sub zero is the value of the 
polynomial at x. 
ANSWER:  
Horner 
's scheme [or  
Horner 
's rule; or  
Horner 
's algorithm] 
001-11-30-02217 
18. This figure is the reason why the author \"feared to arouse himself from slumber.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this entity from a thought experiment in  
 Meditations on First Philosophy  
 that spends his 
existence deceiving the author into believing the illusion around him. 
ANSWER:  
evil demon 
 or  
evil deceptor 
 or  
evil genius 
 [accept equivalents] 
[10] This French thinker wrote  
 Meditations on First Philosophy  
 and  
 Discourse on Method  
. 
ANSWER: Rene  
Descartes 
[10] Descartes also wrote this tract, which advanced his balloonist theories of the body. The title entities of 
this work are movements and sensations that arise from moving of animal spirits. 
ANSWER:  
The  Passions of the Soul 
 [or  
Les  passions de l'ame 
] 
033-11-30-02218 
19. Until 1984, this country had an ongoing border dispute with Chile over ownership of some islands in 
the Beagle Channel. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country that has been led by Bernardino Rivadavia and Domingo Sarmiento. 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
 [or  
Argentine 
 Republic; or Republica  
Argentina 
] 
[10] Argentina was led by Jorge Videla during this period from 1976 to 1983, in which thousands of 
citizens were killed or disappeared by the government. 
ANSWER:  
Dirty War 
 [or  
Guerra Sucia 
] 
[10] This last military dictator fell from power after provoking and losing the Falklands War to the UK. 
ANSWER: Leopoldo Fortunato  
Galtieri 
 Castelli 
015-11-30-02219 
20. Leo Brouwer, a notable composer for this instrument, created the pieces  
Paisaje cubano con illuvia 
 and 
Dia del Noviembre 
 for it. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this string instrument,played by Andres Segovia and Django Reinhardt. 
ANSWER:  
guitar 
[10] This composer created 12 etudes and 5 preludes for guitar, but is better known for his  
Bachianas 
Brasileiras 
. 
ANSWER: Heitor  
Villa-Lobos 
[10] This composer created the guitar pieces  
Capricho arabe 
 and Gran vals. He is also known for his guitar 
transcriptions of works by Beethoven, Chopin, and Mendelssohn. 
ANSWER: Francisco  
Tarrega 
095-11-30-02220 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  11 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
21. The title character of this play is Pyrgopolynices. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which Palaestrio devises a plan to reunite Pleusicles with his girlfriend, 
Philocomasium. 
ANSWER:  
Miles Gloriosus 
 [or  
The  Swaggering Soldier 
 or anything indicating a boastful soldier] 
[10]  
Miles Gloriosus 
 is a comedy by this Roman playwright whose plays often featured clever slaves. His 
famous play  
 Menaechmi 
 was the basis for Shakespeare's  
 The Comedy of Errors 
. 
ANSWER: Titus Maccius  
Plautus 
[10] Plautus was influenced by this Greek playwright of the New Comedy. His only complete surviving 
play is  
Dyskolos 
 whose title is often translated as  
 The Grouch 
. 
ANSWER:  
Menander 
024-11-30-02221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 2     Page  12 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
