VHSL States 2012 
Round 1 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One formula for this value initially was given as 0.744 plus a term proportional to a quantity derived 
from Slater's Rules. That quantity is the effective nuclear charge, and that formula was developed by Allred 
and Rochow. Another measure of this quantity was developed by Sanderson. Other scales for it involve the 
square root of the ionic resonance energy and the average of ionization energy and electron affinity. For 10 
points, the Pauling and Mulliken scales measure what ability of atoms to attract electrons to themselves in a 
covalent bond? 
ANSWER:  
electronegativity 
003-12-56-01101 
2. This hero loses one of his sandals helping an old lady cross a river. This man’s wife, Glauce 
(GLOWE-kay), is killed by a poisoned dress. He saves Phineas from starvation by driving away some 
Harpies, and passes through the clashing rocks called the Symplegades (sim-PLAY-guh-deez). Like 
Cadmus, he sows dragon’s teeth into a field, but he defeats the warriors who sprout up. This man travels to 
Colchis after assembling a team that includes Orpheus, Castor and Pollux, Atalanta, and Heracles. For 10 
points, name this husband of Medea and leader of the Argonauts. 
ANSWER:  
Jason 
015-12-56-01102 
3. The Mamertines were mercenaries on this island who sought aid from Carthage and then Rome, leading 
to the first Punic War. Peter III encouraged this island to revolt against Charles I, leading to a war named 
for the vespers on this island. Nicias (NISS-ee-uss) attacked the major city on this island as part of an 
Athenian expedition here supported by Alcibiades (AL-sib-EYE-uh-deez). Before reunification, this island 
was part of Naples in a kingdom named for \"the two\" of this place. For 10 points, name this island, the 
home of the Mafia and a constituent part of Italy. 
ANSWER:  
Sicily 
 [or  
Sicilia 
] 
121-12-56-01103 
4. This man promised that proceeds from his autobiography  
A Journey 
 would help injured soldiers. This 
man's ministry saw the Good Friday Agreement lessen tensions in Northern Ireland, and he also was in 
office for suicide bombings on London's public transport system. When he considered adopting the Euro as 
currency, a newspaper asked if he was \"the most dangerous man in Britain.\" He was eventually replaced as 
Labour Party leader by Gordon Brown. For 10 points, name this British Prime Minister who brought his 
country into the 2003 war in Iraq. 
ANSWER: Anthony Charles Lynton \"Tony\"  
Blair 
052-12-56-01104 
5. In this man's most recent work, the protagonist's split personalities correspond through his diary about 
his life as a spy and author of  
The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. 
 This author of  
The Prague Cemetery 
 also 
wrote a novel in which Adelmo's death turns out to be a suicide, but the death of three others comes from 
reading the poisoned pages of Aristotle's treatise on comedy. That novel takes place in a medieval 
monastery visited by William of Baskerville. For 10 points, name this Italian novelist of  
The Name of the 
Rose. 
ANSWER: Umberto  
Eco 
121-12-56-01105 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  1 of 10 
6. The solution to the brachistochrone (BRAH-kih-stoh-crone) problem is a curve formed by rotation of 
this shape. The area between two of these shapes forms an annulus (AH-nuh-luhs). A triangle's midpoints, 
altitudes and orthocenter can be used to construct the \"nine point\" variant of this shape. Rotating this shape 
around an axis forms a torus. This shape is a conic section with an eccentricity of zero. For 10 points, name 
this shape that is the set of all points equidistant from the center. 
ANSWER:  
circle 
064-12-56-01106 
7. This genre titles a Latin work of sixteen poems in five books by an author who discussed how \"it is 
difficult not to write\" this genre while living in an evil city. This genre championed by Juvenal also 
characterizes a novel about a man who travels to Blefuscu, Brobdingnag (BROB-ding-nag), and Lilliput, 
and an essay which proposes eating poor Irish babies. For 10 points, name this witty genre employed by 
Jonathan Swift to criticize societal vices, often in a humorous manner. 
ANSWER:  
satire 
 [or obvious equivalents] 
023-12-56-01107 
8. A dimer (DIE-murr) of a simple compound with this element as its central atom forms a high strained 
bond called a banana bond. Compounds containing this element are often named using the prefixes sido 
(SIY-doh) or arachno (uh-RACK-noh) as part of a designation called Wade’s Rules. This element violates 
the octet rule with just six electrons, because it contains only one electron in the 2p subshell, thus making 
compounds with this element useful Lewis acids. For 10 points, name this metalloid element with atomic 
number 5. 
ANSWER:  
boron 
130-12-56-01108 
9. Many critics of this site have pointed to the case of the Tipton Three. Almost eight hundred DABs or 
“assessment briefs” pertaining to this place were released by WikiLeaks in 2011. The Supreme Court case  
Boumediene  
(BOOM-dee-enn) 
 v. Bush 
 challenged the administration of this place. It is made up of Camp 
Iguana, Camp Delta, and Camp X-Ray. In 2005,  
Newsweek 
 retracted its assertion that a Qur’an was 
flushed here. This site has had trouble relocating some of the Uighurs (WEE-gurs) who are no longer 
considered \"enemy combatants.\" For 10 points, name this American prison on Cuba. 
ANSWER:  
Guantanamo 
 Bay detention camp [or  
Gitmo 
] 
015-12-56-01109 
10. One step in this pathway applies Le Chatelier’s (shah-tuh-lee-AIRS) Principle by converting DHAP to 
G3P via isomerase (iy-SOH-meh-rayse) and quickly removing G3P to keep the reaction from equilibrium. 
In this pathway, the enzymes hexokinase (hecks-oh-KIE-nase) and phosphofructokinase 
(fahs-foh-fruck-toh-KIE-nase) convert two ATP molecules to ADP, which phosphorylates 
(fahs-FOR-ih-lates) a substrate molecule twice. This pathway reduces NAD+ (\"N-A-D plus\") to NADH, 
and it also forms two pyruvate (pie-ROO-vate) molecules which are turned into acetyl CoA and passed 
onto the Krebs cycle. For 10 points, name this energy-producing pathway which splits a glucose molecule 
in two. 
ANSWER:  
glycolysis 
 (glie-KAH-lih-sis) 
080-12-56-01110 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  2 of 10 
11. This country is home to the original town of Copacabana, which is named for its patron saint. Its 
highest peak is the Nevado Sajama (suh-HA-muh), and it is the site of the ancient silver mining center of 
Potosi. Its largest city Santa Cruz sits on the banks of the Pirai river, which is near the ruins at Tiwanaku. 
This country shares Lake Titicaca with its neighbor Peru. It is bordered to the north by Brazil, and to the 
south by Chile, Paraguay, and Argentina. For 10 points, name this country with two capitals, at Sucre and 
La Paz. 
ANSWER:  
Bolivia 
015-12-56-01111 
12. This player’s first NFL touchdown came in a preseason game against the Bengals, on a run in which he 
bruised his ribs diving into the endzone. In 2007, he set an NCAA record for total touchdowns with 
fifty-five and finished ahead of Colt Brennan and Darren McFadden in awards voting. This player’s NFL 
feats have included a fifteen-point comeback to beat the Miami Dolphins in overtime. In a playoff game, he 
threw an eighty-yard touchdown to Demaryius Thomas on the first play of overtime to defeat the Pittsburgh 
Steelers. For 10 points, name this unorthodox quarterback for the Denver Broncos, a former Florida Gator. 
ANSWER: Timothy Richard  
Tebow 
140-12-56-01112 
13. A woman in this novel dies of snakebite after her son fails to take her inside his home while napping 
after cutting furze. Another character, who was once in love with the innkeeper Damon Wildeve, joins a 
mummers' play to see the man she eventually marries, who has plans to start a school in the area. That man 
becomes blind from hours of reading in dim light, ruining his wife Eustacia's hope of ever leaving Egdon 
Heath. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel about the homecoming of Clym Yeobright. 
ANSWER:  
The  Return of the Native 
121-12-56-01113 
14. Joseph Louis Cook was the highest ranking member of this group during the Revolutionary War. The 
leader of this group is called a tadodaho (TAH-doe-DAH-ho). In an attempt to increase their fur trade, this 
group fought the Algonquians in the Beaver Wars. During the eighteenth century, the Tuscarora tribe 
joined this group, that was founded by Hiawatha. The Cayuga, Oneida, and Mohawk were among the 
members of, for 10 points, what confederacy of Native American tribes centered in upstate New York? 
ANSWER:  
Iroquois 
 League [or  
Iroquois 
 Confederacy; accept  
Mohawk 
 before \"tadodaho\" is read] 
064-12-56-01114 
15. In one of this author’s novels, the title character is served by the tramp Thomas Marvel. In another of 
his books, Edward Prendick meets the Sayer of the Law, whose code forbids killing a rabbit. This author 
created Weena, a member of a childlike society preyed on by beings who live underground. This man wrote 
a novel in which the protagonist meets the Eloi and the Morlocks, while another of his novels ends with 
tripod-wielding Martians dying of an infection. For 10 points, name this British author of  
The Time 
Machine 
 and  
The War of the Worlds. 
ANSWER: Herbert George  
Wells 
052-12-56-01115 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 1 
Directed Round 
1A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. The histogram of a data set shows 3 counts in the bin 30-39, 
6 counts in the bin 40-49, 10 counts in the bin 50-59, and 7 counts in the bin 60-69. What is the minimum 
possible median for this data set? 
ANSWER:  
50 
1B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. If each external angle of a regular polygon measures 24 
degrees, how many sides does the polygon have? 
ANSWER:   sides 
15 
2A.  What non-synoptic Gospel starts with the sentence \"In the beginning was the Word\"? 
ANSWER: Gospel of  
John 
2B.  In January 2012, the U.S. re-opened relations, after twenty years, with what Asian country, the home 
of Aung San Suu Kyi? 
ANSWER:  
Burma 
 [or  
Myanmar 
] 
3A.  Old Faithful is a geyser that is located in what national park, the first in the world? 
ANSWER:  
Yellowstone 
 National Park 
3B.  Which city's empire fought against Rome in the Punic Wars, was ruled by Dido in the  
Aeneid 
, and 
employed the generals Hannibal and Hasdrubal Barca? 
ANSWER:  
Carthage 
4A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find all real and complex roots of the polynomial  -8. 
x 
3 
ANSWER:  
{2, -1 + i sqrt(3), -1 - i sqrt(3)} 
4B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the points of intersection of the curves described by the 
equations y = x  + 2x + 7 and y = 3x  - 3x + 4. Express all non-integers as fractions. 
2 2 
ANSWER:  
(-1/2, 25/4) and (3,22) 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
5A.  A Winkler Test determines the concentration in solution of what element that forms a light blue, 
odorless, diatomic gas at standard temperature and pressure? 
ANSWER:  
oxygen 
5B.  What father of Phobos and Deimos is the Greek analog of the Roman Mars? 
ANSWER:  
Ares 
6A.  Name the Swedish ruler who died at the Battle of Luetzen during the Thirty Years' War. 
ANSWER:  
Gustavus Adolphus 
 [or  
Gustav II Adolf 
; prompt on partial answer] 
6B.  Name the Austrian economist who warned of the danger of tyranny in  
The Road to Serfdom. 
ANSWER: Friedrich August von  
Hayek 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. On an inaccurate signal detector, the probability of a false 
negative is 20% and the probability of a false positive is 5%. A signal occurs on 30% of trials. What is the 
probability that a signal occurred, given that the detector indicated a signal? Express your answer as a 
fraction in lowest terms. 
ANSWER:  
48/55 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  4 of 10 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If x is a first-quadrant angle and sin x equals 2/3, what is sin 
3x? 
ANSWER:  
22/27 
 [or  
0.814 
814...] 
8A.  What body discovered in 2005 is the largest dwarf planet in our solar system and was the impetus for 
the downgrading of Pluto's planet status? 
ANSWER:  
Eris 
8B.  Name the Spanish artist who depicted a military triumph in  
The Surrender of Breda 
 and a palace room 
belonging to Philip IV in  
Las Meninas. 
ANSWER: Diego Rodriguez de Silva  
Velazquez 
9A.  This field of computer science uses three schemes to accomplish its goals: secret key algorithms, 
public-key algorithms and hash functions. What is this field that transforms data into an unreadable format 
to protect it from theft, alteration, or unauthorized access? 
ANSWER:  
cryptography 
9B.  What villain, set to appear in  
The Dark Knight Rises, 
 breaks Batman's back in the comic book story arc 
\"Knightfall\"? 
ANSWER:  
Bane 
10A.  What physicist added a term for displacement current to Ampere’s Law, which is one of this man’s 
four equations of electromagnetism? 
ANSWER: James Clerk  
Maxwell 
10B.  From what modern day country did the writers Hroswitha (hrahs-VEE-tuh) and Thomas Mann hail 
from? 
ANSWER: Federal Republic of  
Germany 
 [or Bundesrepublik  
Deutschland 
] 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 1 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The progression of this disease’s symptoms is traced by the Hoehn and Yahr scale. People suffering 
from it develop abnormal proteins called Lewy bodies. This disease affects the basal ganglia 
(GANG-lee-uh) and can result in bradykinesia (bray-dee-kie-NEE-see-uh). It is treated with L-DOPA 
because its effects are caused by the death of dopamine-secreting cells. This disease was named for an 
English doctor who wrote  
An Essay on the Shaking Palsy 
. For 10 points, name this degenerative disorder 
which is noted for causing movement-related symptoms, such as uncontrollable shaking. 
ANSWER:  
Parkinson’s 
 disease [or  
paralysis agitans 
; or  
parkinsonism 
] 
052-12-56-01117 
2. The cliffs of a national park on the outskirts of this city served as a model for the setting of  
The Lion 
King 
. It is also the site of the Ngong (in-GONG) Hills, which overlook an old plantation turned into the 
Karen Blixen Museum. This city is also home to the massive slum Kibera. Lying just east of Lake 
Naivasha, it is one hundred miles to the north of Mount Kilimanjaro on its country’s border with Tanzania. 
For 10 points, name this largest city and capital of Kenya. 
ANSWER:  
Nairobi 
015-12-56-01118 
3. This composer provided the music to the Errol Morris documentary  
The Thin Blue Line 
. He provided the 
film score to a work subtitled  
Life Out of Balance 
, which is noted for its time-lapse depictions of city life. 
One of this man’s operas has a section titled “I Feel the Earth Move” and features a series of “knee plays.” 
That work forms the \"Portrait Trilogy\" along with operas about Gandhi and Akhenaten. For 10 points, 
name this minimalist composer of  
Einstein on the Beach. 
ANSWER: Philip  
Glass 
052-12-56-01119 
4. The death of this poet’s young brother Christopher inspired him to write a poem in which the speaker 
notes “a four foot box, a foot for every year” while looking at the coffin. This author of “Mid-Term Break” 
and the poetry collection  
The Haw Lantern 
 wrote a poem in which his father and grandfather carry out the 
same action as he does with a “squat pen.” This man's poem “Digging” is included in  
Death of a Naturalist. 
For 10 points, name this Nobel Prize-winning Irish poet who translated  
Beowulf 
 into modern English. 
ANSWER: Seamus Justin  
Heaney 
140-12-56-01120 
5. This artist painted a man in a straw hat seated in front of numerous ukiyo-e (YOO-kee-oh-eh) prints in 
his portrait of the art dealer Pere Tanguy (tan-GHEE). He wrote many letters to his brother Theo that 
explain the ideas behind his paintings, which include one in distorted perspective that depicts a room with a 
green ceiling and a pool table at the center. While in an asylum, this artist of  
The Night Cafe 
 painted a 
swirling sky above the village of Saint-Remy. For 10 points, name this Dutch artist of  
The Starry Night 
, 
who cut off his own ear. 
ANSWER: Vincent  
Van Gogh 
080-12-56-01121 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  6 of 10 
6. This novel is introduced in a foreword written by the psychiatrist John Ray, Jr. Its protagonist falls in 
love with Annabel Leigh, who dies of typhus. In this novel, the protagonist's wife is killed by a car after 
reading the protagonist’s diary. The title character of this novel is kidnapped from a hospital by the 
playwright Clare Quilty, who is hunted down and shot by the protagonist. That protagonist marries 
Charlotte Haze out of desire for her daughter Dolores. For 10 points, name this novel about the pedophile 
Humbert Humbert, by Vladimir Nabokov. 
ANSWER:  
Lolita 
015-12-56-01122 
7. The day before one character on this show starts a new job, he is given a fedora and whip just like 
Indiana Jones’s. Another character in this show has a life-size Stormtrooper in his apartment, and another 
had hits on the Canadian pop charts with the songs “Sandcastles in the Sand” and “Let’s Go To The Mall.” 
Those characters on this show are friends with the married couple Lily and Marshall Eriksen, who live with 
a man who’s future voice is provided by Bob Saget. For 10 points, name this CBS comedy which often 
features the game “Have you met Ted?” being played at MacLaren’s Pub. 
ANSWER:  
How I Met Your Mother 
141-12-56-01123 
8. This character drank herself into a stupor on the night before her wedding after receiving a letter from 
her lover, a lieutenant serving overseas. This character introduces her cousin to a golfer who cheated in her 
first tournament, named Jordan Baker. This character's lover is shot in his pool after she runs over Myrtle 
Wilson driving that man's car. For 10 points, name this cousin of Nick Carraway and wife of Tom 
Buchanan, the title character's lover in F. Scott Fitzgerald's  
The Great Gatsby. 
ANSWER:  
Daisy 
 Buchanan [prompt on  
Buchanan 
] 
002-12-56-01124 
9. When writing this language, letters such as \"tsade\" and \"khaf\" have special \"sofit\" forms which only 
appear at the ends of words.An early artifact in this language may be the Gezer calendar. The Soviet Union 
banned this language as “reactionary,” and it was secretly taught there by the “Refuseniks.” Increased 
interest in its study occurred during the  
Haskalah 
 period. A dialect of it is named for the religious text 
called the Mishnah. For 10 points, name this language, which along with Arabic, is the official language of 
Israel. 
ANSWER:  
Hebrew 
 [or  
Ivrit 
; do not accept “Yiddish”] 
052-12-56-01125 
10. This Greek letter refers to the three lightest mesons known. This letter represents a quantity that is equal 
to the products of the gas constant, absolute temperature, molarity, and the van’t Hoff (vahnt OFF) factor 
in the Morse equation. In addition to representing osmotic pressure and a type of bond found in double and 
triple bonds, this letter also represents a constant used to find the volume of a sphere. For 10 points, name 
this Greek letter, which represents a transcendental number approximated as 22/7 or 3.14. 
ANSWER:   [do not accept “phi”] 
pi 
140-12-56-01126 
11. This author wrote a work that ends with a prayer to be spared a fate “on the reef of Norman’s Woe.” 
That poem by this man is about an ill-fated captain who ties his daughter to a mast and is titled \"The Wreck 
of the Hesperus.\" He wrote a work about John Alden, who woos Priscilla, the love of Miles Standish. He 
wrote an epic about an Indian who loves Minnehaha, and another of his poems begins, “Listen my children 
and you shall hear” about the title character. For 10 points, name this poet who wrote  
The Song of 
Hiawatha 
 and “Paul Revere’s Ride.” 
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth  
Longfellow 
052-12-56-01127 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  7 of 10 
12. With Helmholtz, this man names an instability that develops when two layers of air are moving at 
different speeds. This man used his mirror galvanometer and siphon recorder to help lay the transatlantic 
telegraph cables. With the namesake of an energy unit, he co-names an effect in which the expansion of a 
gas without production of work or heat transfer is accompanied by a change in temperature. For 10 points, 
identify this namesake of a temperature scale approximately 273 degrees above that of the Celsius scale. 
ANSWER: Lord  
Kelvin 
 [or William  
Thomson 
; or Baron  
Kelvin 
] 
105-12-56-01128 
13.  
The Gypsy Baron 
 is among the operettas of one man with this first and last name.  
Long Live the 
Hungarians 
 and  
Tritsch-Tratsch 
 are two polkas by a man with this name. Another man with this first and 
last name wrote a piece named for a field marshal in which the audience claps during the chorus; that piece 
is the  
Radetzky March 
 (ra-DEHTS-ki). A man with this first and last name composed  
Tales from the 
Vienna Woods 
 and  
The Blue Danube 
. For 10 points, give this shared name of father and son composers, the 
younger of whom composed  
Die Fledermaus 
 (\"FLAY\"-der-\"mouse\") and was known as the “Waltz King.” 
ANSWER:  
Johann Strauss 
052-12-56-01129 
14. During this event, Admiral Cockburn's forces targeted the  
National Intelligencer 
 newspaper. This event 
occurred after General Robert Ross won the battle of Bladensburg. It resulted in one man being forced to 
live in the Octagon House. An apocryphal story states that prior to this event, a Gilbert Stuart painting of 
George Washington was saved by Dolley Madison. For 10 points, name this incident in the War of 1812 in 
which the British torched the American capital. 
ANSWER:  
burning of Washington 
, D.C. [or  
burning of the White House 
 or equivalent answers; prompt 
on  
War of 1812 
 before \"Bladensburg\" is read] 
052-12-56-01130 
15. One serotype of this organism can produce a toxin similar to the one secreted by organisms of genus  
Shigella 
 (shih-GEH-luh). The Meselson-Stahl experiment used these organisms, while the lac operon was 
first discovered within it. Classified as an enteric (en-TEH-rick) since it is found within the human 
intestines, strains of this organism such as O157:H7 are known to cause foodborne illnesses. This 
gram-negative, rod-shaped species is attacked by the lambda phage. For 10 points, name this species of 
bacteria often found in undercooked ground beef. 
ANSWER:  
E scherichia  coli 
140-12-56-01131 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 1 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. One of this author’s novels ends in Shalimar, Virginia, with a climactic showdown between Guitar 
Baines and Milkman Dead the Third. Another of her novels is narrated by Claudia MacTeer, who describes 
the way Cholly abuses his daughter Pecola Breedlove. This author of  
Song of Solomon 
 and  
The Bluest Eye 
was the last American to win the Nobel in literature. In another of her novels, Sethe kills her daughter after 
escaping slavery. For 10 points, name this African American author of  
Beloved 
. 
ANSWER: Toni  
Morrison 
 [or Chloe Anthony  
Wofford 
] 
015-12-56-01132 
2. Before this battle, its site where it was fought was captured by Benjamin Milam in the Siege of Bejar. 
South Carolina native James Bonham served as a messenger during this battle. The commander of one side 
at this battle was William Travis, who drew a famous line in the sand. Other casualties at this battle 
included knife-inventor James Bowie and frontiersman Davy Crockett. For 10 points, name this battle from 
the War of Texan Independence in which Santa Ana overwhelmed a San Antonio mission. 
ANSWER: Battle of the  
Alamo 
015-12-56-01133 
3. Faraday cages distribute this quantity to cancel external fields. The electric flux density through a closed 
surface is proportional to this quantity according to Gauss' (GOWSS-ES) law. It is found squared in the 
numerator of Coloumb's (KOO-loms) law. This quantity was measured in an experiment that balanced 
gravity and buoyancy. That experiment determined the elementary value of this quantity and was 
conducted by Robert Millikan with oil drops. For 10 points, name this quantity symbolized Q and equal to 
-1.6 times 10 to the -19 for electrons. 
ANSWER: electric  
charge 
105-12-56-01134 
4. This playwright wrote about the god Aroni, the Dead Man, and the Dead Woman in his play  
A Dance of 
the Forests. 
 In another play, the Bale of Ilujinle, Baroka, competes with the schoolteacher Lakunle for 
Sidi's hand in marriage. The colonialist Simon Pilkings attempts to stop a ritual suicide in a play by this 
author that features Elesin as the title character. For 10 points, name this Nigerian playwright of  
The Lion 
and the Jewel 
 and  
Death and the King's Horseman. 
ANSWER: Wole  
Soyinka 
 [or Akinwande Oluwole  
Soyinka 
] 
127-12-56-01135 
5. Unrest during this man's administration led to a series of \"long hot summers.\" A close election won by 
this man earned him the nickname \"Landslide.\" This man's social reforms were grouped under the banner 
of creating a \"Great Society,\" and those reforms included fighting a \"war on poverty\" and the passage the 
Voting Rights Act and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. For 10 points, name this President who on November 
22, 1963 became the only president sworn in aboard Air Force One. 
ANSWER:  yndon Baines  
L Johnson 
 [or  
LBJ 
; prompt on  
Johnson 
] 
002-12-56-01136 
What country's modern writers included playrights Sean O'Casey and Brendan Behan and novelist Flann 
O'Brien? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Ireland 
002-12-56-01137 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  9 of 10 
This is a calculation question. What is the sample variance of the set of three numbers {a - b, a, a + b}, in 
terms of a and b? 
ANSWER:  
b 
2 
002-12-56-01137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2012     Round 1     Page  10 of 10 
