Colonia Tournament 
Round 4 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. In one short story by this author, Ben Price does not arrest Ralph Spencer. In another of this man's works, 
Bill and Sam try to make two thousand dollars by kidnapping the son of Ebenezer Dorset, but end up paying 
Dorset two hundred fifty dollars to take his son back. This author of \"A Retrieved Reformation\" also wrote 
about a set of combs and a watch chain for which Jim and Della make sacrifices to give to each other. For 10 
points, name this American short story author of \"The Ransom of Red Chief\" and \"The Gift of the Magi.\" 
ANSWER:  
O. Henry 
 [or William Sydney  
Porter 
] 
036-10-14-04101 
2. This politician lost many supporters because of his rough treatment of General Ralph Zwicker (ZWI-kur). 
The Hennings Report investigated this politician. This politician's reputation plummeted after Joseph Welch 
asked him, \"Have you no sense of decency?\" Roy Cohn worked alongside this politician. This man accused 
the State Department of harboring a number of Communists. For 10 points, name this Wisconsin Senator 
who led the post-World War II Red Scare. 
ANSWER: Joseph Raymond  
McCarthy 
004-10-14-04102 
3. Indigenous minorities in this country are collectively known as \"scheduled tribes.\" Another group which 
is protected from discrimination by this country's constitution was renamed \"Children of God\" or \"Harijans\" 
(HARR-ee-johnz). That group includes all people in this country who make a living by fishing, tanning 
hides, or handling bodily fluids. This country is also home to 160 million Muslims, though more Muslims 
lived here before the 1947 partition of this country. The \"untouchables\" fall outside the caste system of, for 
10 points, what country, whose laws attempt to forbid bigotry in favor of the majority, Hindus? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
India 
 [or  
Bharat 
] 
019-10-14-04103 
4. Deficiency of this gland's namesake hormone leads to cretinism in newborns, and thyroxine 
(thy-\"ROCKS\"-een) is required to form that hormone. This butterfly-shaped gland sits at the front of the 
neck around the larynx (LAIR-\"inks\") and trachea (TRAY-kee-uh). Iodine is necessary for the synthesis of 
this gland's namesake hormone, and a deficiency of iodine causes it to become enlarged. For 10 points, name 
this endocrine gland that forms a goiter when not enough iodine is available. 
ANSWER:  
thyroid 
 gland 
032-10-14-04104 
5. During this larger conflict, the rebellion of Simon the Cutler, also called the Cabochien Revolt, occurred. 
Another uprising during a lapse in this war was led by William Cale. The treaties of Bretigny and Troyes 
were temporary armistices during this war. The death of John Talbot at the Battle of Castillon is considered 
the ending point of this war. The aforementioned Jacquerie occurred during this conflict, as did the uprising 
of Owen Glendower and Henry Hotspur against Henry V. For 10 points, name this medieval conflict 
between England and France. 
ANSWER:  
Hundred Years 
 War [prompt on  
Armagnac-Burgundian 
 Civil War until \"Mello\"] 
035-10-14-04105 
6. The narrator describes Sally's hair as \"shiny black like raven feathers,\" and that character is abused by her 
father and later her husband. This novel is dedicated \"a las mujeres,\" and its protagonist dreams of living in a 
white home with three bathrooms rather than the crumbling building on the titular road. For 10 points, name 
this novel about Esperanza Cordero by Mexican-American author Sandra Cisneros. 
ANSWER:  
The  House on Mango Street 
032-10-14-04106 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  1 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. This figure grew up on the island of Seriphos and was sent on his most famous mission by Polydectes. As 
an infant he was cast into the sea in a chest by Acrisius (eck-REE-zi-US), whom he later killed with a discus. 
He defeated a sea monster that plagued Ethiopia and thereafter married Andromeda. In his most famous 
adventure, he received winged sandals and the cap of Hades from the Graiae (GRY-I) after stealing their one 
tooth and eye. For 10 points, name this Greek hero who slayed Medusa. 
ANSWER:  
Perseus 
030-10-14-04107 
8. This composer wrote tone poems like  
The Rock 
 and  
The Isle of the Dead 
. This composer inverted the 
notes of another composer's twenty-fourth caprice to write the eighteenth variation of a work for piano and 
orchestra. A, G-sharp, and C-sharp triple octaves begin this composer's Prelude in C-sharp minor, which is 
nicknamed \"The Bells of Moscow.\" One of this man's works is a choral symphony based on Poe's \"The 
Bells.\" For 10 points, name this late Russian Romantic who composed  
Rhapsody on a Theme by Paganini. 
ANSWER: Sergei Vasilievich  
Rachmaninoff 
036-10-14-04108 
9. This man's advisors included Rustem and Sokolli. This man employed the architect Sinan. This ruler had 
his son Mustapha executed. This man's corsair Barbarossa made the Ottoman fleet a powerful force. This 
ruler conquered Belgrade in 1521. This man expelled the Knights Hospitalers from Rhodes in 1522. For 10 
points, name this Ottoman sultan who won a decisive victory against the Hungarians at the Battle of Mohacs 
in 1526, and who was the son of Selim I. 
ANSWER:  
Suleiman I 
 [or  
Suleiman the Magnificent 
; or  
Suleiman the Lawgiver 
; or  
Suleiman 
Muhtesem 
; or  
Suleiman Kanuni 
] 
030-10-14-04109 
10. Two smugglers in this opera, Dancairo and Remendado, help a character escape from a tavern to a 
mountain. That character in this opera had earlier taken a cassia flower thrown at him by the title character, 
despite being in a relationship with Micaela. The character Escamillo (ess-com-EE-lo) sings the \"Toreador 
Song\" in this opera, while the title character sings an aria to a habanera. For 10 points, name this opera in 
which the jealous soldier Don José kills a cigarette girl who loves a bullfighter, an opera by Georges Bizet. 
ANSWER:  
Carmen 
023-10-14-04110 
11. This man wrote about a hedonist who tried to \"resuscitate the dead art/Of poetry\" in  
Hugh Selwyn 
Mauberly 
. His other works include the collection  
Cathay 
 and the two-line poem \"In A Station of the Metro.\" 
He translated a poem by a Chinese poet who allegedly drowned while trying to embrace the moon. For 10 
points, name this expatriate poet who translated Li Po's \"The River Merchant's Wife\" and never finished his 
long poem  
The Cantos 
. 
ANSWER: Ezra  
Pound 
032-10-14-04111 
12. The way that this phenomenon adjusts to an applied magnetic field in uneven bursts is described by the 
Barkhausen effect. A hysteresis loop causes this effect to remain after the removal of the magnetic field. 
This phenomenon occurs because an external magnetic field causes the magnetic domains of a material to 
become aligned, though that effect breaks down above the Curie temperature as the material reverts to being 
paramagnetic. For 10 points, name this kind of magnetism found in materials like cobalt, nickel, and iron, its 
namesake. 
ANSWER:  
ferromagnetism 
028-10-14-04112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  2 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. One invasion under this ruler led to the death by beating of Cornelis and Johan de Witt before the treaty 
of Nijmegen ended the Dutch War. That war led to the ascension to power of this man's longtime enemy, 
William III. Charles II's granting of Spain to this ruler's grandson sparked the War of the Spanish 
Succession. This man revoked the rights given to Protestants in his country by Henry IV in the Edict of 
Nantes in his own Edict of Fontainebleau. For 10 points, name this French monarch, whose long rule led to 
his being named the Sun King. 
ANSWER:  
Louis XIV 
 [accept  
Sun King 
 before read; prompt on  
Louis 
] 
023-10-14-04113 
14. The title character of one of this man's plays uses the Turkish king Bajazeth as a footstool. The narrator 
of one of this man's poems promises things such as \"buckles of the purest gold\" after urging the title 
character to \"Come live with me and be my love.\" This author of  
Tamburlaine 
 and \"The Passionate 
Shepherd to his Love\" also wrote a play in which Barabas dies in a cauldron. This author also penned a 
\"tragical history\" that adapts of the Faust legend. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan playwright of  
The Jew 
of Malta 
 and  
Doctor Faustus 
. 
ANSWER: Christopher  
Marlowe 
015-10-14-04114 
15. In one film appearance, this character follows a man to the Filet of Soul restaurant, where he meets Mr. 
Big. In another appearance, this character fights with Red Grant on the Orient Express. In a later film, he 
defeats Le Chiffre [SHEEF] in a game of Texas Hold Em. For 10 points, name this main character of  
From 
Russia With Love Live and Let Die 
,  , and  
Casino Royale 
. 
ANSWER: James  
Bond 
003-10-14-04115 
16. This man died in a helicopter crash in 1977 after covering brushfires in Southern California. This man 
grew up in Pound, Virginia. After graduating from Milligan College, this man joined the Air Force in 1960. 
This man was trained in dropping atomic bombs, but received later training from the CIA in piloting 
top-secret, high-altitude planes used to photograph enemy installations. For 10 points, who was shot down 
over the Soviet Union in May 1960 while flying his U-2? 
ANSWER: Francis Gary  
Powers 
045-10-14-04116 
17. This poet asked \"Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?\" in a poem defending his use of satire. This 
author wrote a poem in which the goddess Dulness crowns Colley Cibber as the King of Dunces. This author 
of \"Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot\" wrote \"A little learning is a dangerous thing\" and \"fools rush in where angels 
fear to tread\" in his  
An Essay on Criticism 
. For 10 points, name this seventeenth-century British poet of  
The 
Dunciad 
 and  
The Rape of the Lock 
. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Pope 
004-10-14-04117 
18. One of this poet's poems states \"They shut me up in Prose.\" Another of this author's poems describes \"a 
certain slant of light on winter afternoons.\" This poet also wrote a poem about a \"narrow Fellow in the 
Grass,\" which was one of the few works she published during her lifetime. The speaker of one of her poems 
\"heard a fly buzz when [she] died.\" The speaker of another work by this poet rides in a carriage with the 
titular figure and immortality. For 10 points, name this poet who wrote \"Because I could not stop for Death,\" 
a woman known as the \"bard of Amherst.\" 
ANSWER: Emily Elizabeth  
Dickinson 
024-10-14-04118 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  3 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. This philosopher divided his first major work into sections examining passions, morals and 
understanding, and titled it  
A Treatise of Human Nature 
. In another work, he investigates the possibility of 
singular events contradicting laws of nature in a section title \"Of Miracles,\" a work that Kant credited as 
waking him from his \"dogmatic slumber.\" The author of  
An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding 
, for 
10 points, name this Scottish empiricist philosopher. 
ANSWER: David  
Hume 
049-10-14-04119 
20. One result named for this man erroneously holds for Carmichael numbers and claims that \"a to the p is 
equivalent to a mod p.\" This man names a type of prime number of the form \"one plus two to the power two 
to the n.\" The most famous result named for this man was proved using the Taniyama-Shimura Conjecture 
by Andrew Wiles in 1995; that theorem says that \"for n greater than two\" the equation \"a to the n plus b to 
the n equals c to the n\" has no integer solutions. For 10 points, name this French mathematician, the 
namesake of a \"little theorem\" and a \"last theorem.\" 
ANSWER: Pierre de  
Fermat 
028-10-14-04120 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  4 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 4 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. One war saw this country's forces commanded by the Duke of Caxias (CAH-she-us). This country's 
independence was achieved after the \"Fico Speech\" and the \"Cry of Ipiranga\" (EE-pih-RAN-guh) by its first 
emperor. Slavery was gradually abolished in this country; first by the Law of the Free Womb and then by the 
Golden Law. This country was first discovered by Pedro Cabral. Emperors of this country included Pedro I 
and Pedro II. For 10 points, name this country colonized by Portugal in South America. 
ANSWER: Federative Republic of  
Brazil 
 [or Republica Federativa do  
Brasil 
] 
026-10-14-04121 
2. In 1920 Fritz Haber began a secret project to extract this element from seawater, after learning of 
Arrhenius's calculation that there must be eight million tons of it in the oceans. The pure form of this 
element is the most ductile and most malleable metal. Like platinum, it is most commonly dissolved using 
aqua regia (AH-kwuh REE-jee-uh). The amount of this metal in an alloy is expressed using units of karats. 
For 10 points, name this metal, into which alchemists attempted to convert lead. 
ANSWER:  
gold 
 [or  
Au 
] 
003-10-14-04122 
3. This man established a colony at Amphipolis (am-PHI-poh-liss), and he attempted to call a Panhellenic 
congress in 448 BCE. This man was an opponent of the Areopagus, and he became a prominent figure by 
prosecuting Cimon. This man destroyed Euboea in 446 BCE after it revolted against the Delian League, and 
he oversaw a 445 truce between Sparta and his city that allowed for a flourishing of the arts. For 10 points, 
name this Athenian statesman of that city's Golden Age. 
ANSWER:  
Pericles 
030-10-14-04123 
4. The narrator of this author's most famous work discovers that Albertine Simonet was a lesbian after her 
death. That work by this author has volumes such as  
Sodom and Gomorrah 
 and  
Within a Budding Grove 
, 
and opens with memories brought on by the consumption of a tea-soaked madeleine. For 10 points, name 
this French author who discussed the narrator’s childhood memories in the section  
Swann’s Way 
 of his 
monumental work  
In Search of Lost Time 
. 
ANSWER: Valentin Louis Georges Eugène Marcel  
Proust 
034-10-14-04124 
5. Confederate forces withdrew to Corinth after this battle. This battle's second day saw the Union side 
reinforced with the troops of Don Carlos Buell's Army of the Ohio. The main Confederate force at this battle 
had recently been named the Army of the Mississippi. That army at this battle lost many troops fighting in a 
dense bunch of oak trees nicknamed the \"hornet's nest.\" General Albert Sydney Johnston died during this 
battle. This battle was fought near Pittsburg Landing. For 10 points, name this Civil War battle fought on 
April sixth and seventh, 1862, in Tennessee. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Shiloh 
 [or Battle of  
Pittsburg Landing 
 before mentioned] 
004-10-14-04125 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  5 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. Amacrine (AM-uh-krin) cells in this structure regulate nervous input to ganglion (\"GANG\"-lee-on) cells, 
and this structure's namesake pigmentosa (PIG-men-TOE-suh) causes tunnel vision and night blindness. 
This seven-layered structure has a sensitive fovea (FO-vee-uh) in its macular (MACK-you-lur) region. This 
structure contains photoreceptor (FO-toe-ree-SEP-tur) cells like rods and cones, and it converts light to 
nervous signals sent through the optic nerve. For 10 points, name this structure that lies along the back of the 
eye. 
ANSWER:  
retina 
032-10-14-04126 
7. This author wrote about the policeman Centuri in his work featuring Fronza and Signora Frola. Another 
work of this author contains a character who wears scissors on her chain and another character who finds a 
little girl in a fountain. This author of  
Right You Are, (If You Think You Are!) 
 and  
Mixing It Up 
 used the 
latter play in his work that features Madame Pace, The Mother, The Father, The Stepdaughter, and The Son. 
For 10 points, name this Italian author who wrote  
Six Characters in Search of an Author 
. 
ANSWER: Luigi  
Pirandello 
033-10-14-04127 
8. Major theories in this discipline include structural functionalism and symbolic interactionism. This 
discipline studies mores [mor-ays] and folkways, and an early thinker in this discipline developed the 
concept of anomie. A classic study in this field analyzed the way Calvinism led to the development of the 
modern economic system, and is titled The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. For 10 points, name 
this social science whose classic thinkers include Emile Durkheim and Max Weber, the study of human 
society. 
ANSWER:  
sociology 
004-10-14-04128 
9. The free electron model analyzes the valence electrons of a metal as though they behaved like one of these 
entities. Substances tend to behave more like these as temperature increases and particle number decreases, 
thereby decreasing the relative size of intermolecular (IN-ter-mo-LECK-you-lur) forces. For 10 points, name 
these substances, whose namesake equation of state is often given as PV (P-V) equals nRT (N-R-T). 
ANSWER:  
ideal gas 
 [prompt on  
gas 
] 
022-10-14-04129 
10. One figure from the myth of these peoples was a god of thunder and lightning Illapa, who originated 
from the province of Collasuyu, while Apus were said to be the spirits of mountains. Their legendary 
founder emerged from the cave Puma Orco, after which he was instructed to build a temple to their sun god 
Inti. That man, Manco Capac, was sometimes also said to be the direct descendant of Viracocha, while 
another story says that he instead emerged from the waters of Lake Titicaca. For ten points, name this people 
indigenous to South America whose capital was Cuzco. 
ANSWER:  
Inca 
040-10-14-04130 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  6 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
1. Name these figures from the Roman Republic. 
[5] This man ended the Roman Republic by being declared Dictator for Life after conquering Gaul. Some 
people disliked this and stabbed him to death. 
ANSWER: Gaius  
Julius Caesar 
[10] The people who stabbed Caesar included this friend of his. According to legend, Caesar's last words 
were addressed to this man, whose name has become a synonym for traitor. 
ANSWER: Marcus Junius  
Brutus 
[15] This man was defeated while leading an army against Antony during a phase of the Battle of Philippi. 
Said by Shakespeare to have a \"lean and hungry look,\" he was a leader, with Brutus, of the anti-Caesar 
conspiracy. 
ANSWER: Gaius  
Cassius 
 Longinus 
[20] A generation before Caesar, this man served as Consul seven times, which was technically illegal. He is 
best known for completely reforming the Roman military and for his rivalry with Lucius Cornelius Sulla. 
ANSWER: Gaius  
Marius 
021-10-14-04101 
2. The chief exponent of this musical style referred to it as \"syncopated music.\" 
[5] Identify this form of American music, popular in the early twentieth century, which involved complex 
rhythmic arrangements, usually on the piano, and was used for such pieces as \"Bethena\" and \"The Easy 
Winners.\" 
ANSWER:  
rag 
time 
[10] This composer of piano pieces such as the \"Maple Leaf Rag\" was the leading figure of ragtime music. 
ANSWER: Scott  
Joplin 
[15] This Scott Joplin piece became a surprise hit in 1974, decades after the composer's death, when it was 
used to set the time of the movie  
The Sting 
. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Entertainer 
\" 
[20] An orphan in Texarkana fends off some charlatan magicians, who want to sell a bag of luck to her 
adopted parents, in this fusion of ragtime and opera by Scott Joplin. 
ANSWER:  
Treemonisha 
004-10-14-04102 
3. Identify these Russian authors. 
[5] This author wrote a story about a lawyer who spends fifteen years in solitary confinement due to a bet. 
This man's plays include  
The Cherry Orchard 
 and  
Uncle Vanya 
. 
ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich  
Chekhov 
[10] This author wrote \"Raspberry Water\" in a collection about the tough life of serfs,  
A Sportsman's 
Sketches 
. He also wrote about the nihilist Bazarov in his  
Fathers and Sons 
. 
ANSWER: Ivan Sergeyevich  
Turgenev 
[15] This socialist author based his play  
Summerfolk 
 on Chekhov's bourgeois life, and he wrote about several 
impoverished inhabitants of a shelter in his  
The Lower Depths 
. 
ANSWER: Maxim  
Gorky 
 [or Aleksey Maksimovich  
Peshkov 
] 
[20] This Russian Jewish author fictionalized his participation in the 1919 Russian invasion of Poland in the  
Red Cavalry 
 stories and created the gangster Benya Krik. 
ANSWER: Isaac  
Babel 
020-10-14-04103 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  7 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. This process, when it occurs through a circular aperture, creates a pattern known as an Airy disk. 
[5] Name this process, which in some cases is modeled by Fresnel integrals, in which light bends around 
obstacles. 
ANSWER:  
diffraction 
[10] A principle useful to understanding wave propagation, particularly in the case of diffraction, is this one, 
which states that every point on a wavefront serves as an origin for another wave. 
ANSWER:  
Huygens 
-Fresnel principle 
[15] Young performed a diffraction experiment using two of these, which produced elaborate patterns. 
Diffraction patterns through only one of these tend to be far simpler. 
ANSWER:  
slit 
s 
[20] This type of diffraction that occurs at far-field results in a change of the size of aperture image observed 
and relies on the parallel ray approximation that is used when the Fresnel (fruh NELL) number is less than 
one. 
ANSWER:  
Fraunhofer 
 diffraction 
022-10-14-04104 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  8 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 4 
Four 10-Part Team Rounds 
JUMPING 
Scandinavia  
The Letter C 
The Letter D 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  9 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
JUMPING 
[10] Name the American strategy of jumping from location to location in the Pacific theater of World War II 
that avoided certain Japanese strongholds in favor of moving forward. 
ANSWER:  
island hopping 
 [or  
leapfrogging 
] 
[10] What civilization that fought against Horatius until he jumped into the Tiber River ruled over Rome and 
northern Italy before the establishment of the Roman Republic? 
ANSWER:  
Estrucan 
s 
[10] Name the author of  
The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County 
 who also wrote about Hank 
Morgan in  
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court. 
ANSWER: Mark  
Twain 
 [or Samuel Langhorne  
Clemens 
] 
[10] What Richard Adams novel concerns the rabbits Fiver and Hazel hopping to a new home at the title 
location? 
ANSWER:  
Watership Down 
[10] Name the scientist who won a Nobel Prize for her discovery in maize of jumping genes, or transposons. 
ANSWER: Barbara  
McClintock 
[10] Name the location that pole vaulters try to keep as low as possible while airborne, which can end up 
passing below the bar on a successful vault. 
ANSWER:  
center of mass 
 [or  
mass center 
] 
[10] What American painter depicted a boy diving into water in  
The Swimming Hole 
 as well as creating  
Max 
Schmitt in a Single Scull 
 and  
The Gross Clinic? 
ANSWER: Thomas Cowperthwait  
Eakins 
[10] Name the Danish philosopher who authored  
Either/Or 
 and whose created concepts included the knight 
of faith and the leap of faith. 
ANSWER: Soren Aabye  
Kierkegaard 
[10] The documentary  
The Bridge 
 covers the 24 suicides at this San Francisco landmark during the year 
2004. 
ANSWER:  
Golden Gate 
 Bridge 
[10] What band had a hit song with  
Jumpin' Jack Flash 
 and included musicians Keith Richards and Mick 
Jagger? 
ANSWER: The  
Rolling Stones 
023-10-14-0410-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  10 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Scandinavia 
[10] In an epic poem, this hero comes to the aid of hapless Hrothgar, the king of the Danes, by killing 
Grendel. 
ANSWER:  
Beowulf 
[10] This Swedish playwright about the relationship between the footman Jean and the title woman in  
Miss 
Julie 
. 
ANSWER: August  
Strindberg 
[10] This Swedish chemist invented dynamite, but more notably gives his name to a series of international 
awards for things like chemistry and literature. 
ANSWER: Alfred  
Nobel 
[10] This Swedish botanist and zoologist is considered the “father of modern taxonomy” after publishing the 
book  
Systema Naturae 
. 
ANSWER: Carl  
Linnaeus 
[10] This Viking founded a settlement at Greenland. Noted for his hair color, his son was Leif Ericson. 
ANSWER:  
Erik the Red 
[10] A Russian czar with this name invaded Finland during the Finnish War. Another czar with this name 
was assassinated by the People’s Will. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander 
[10] This Swedish film director crafted such arty films as  
Wild Strawberries 
 and  
The Seventh Seal 
. 
ANSWER: Ingmar  
Bergman 
[10] This cheery Norse god was killed by mistletoe, all part of an elaborate scheme by Loki that got him 
chained to a rock where poison dripped on him. 
ANSWER:  
Balder 
[10] This Swedish group inspired the musical  
Mamma Mia! 
 with songs like “Dancing Queen.” 
ANSWER:  
ABBA 
[10] This capital of Iceland is called the “nightlife capital of the north” due to its number of swinging clubs. 
ANSWER:  
Reykjavik 
052-10-14-0410-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  11 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
The Letter C 
[10] This Czech playwright popularized the term robot with his play  
RUR 
. 
ANSWER: Karel  
Capek 
[10] This Comedy Central talk show includes recurring segments like “Tip of the Hat, Wag of the Finger” 
and “The Word” and follows  
The Daily Show 
. 
ANSWER:  
The  Colbert Report 
[10] This country experienced a civil war known as La Violencia and was home to a drug cartel run by Pablo 
Escobar and centered at Medellin. 
ANSWER:  
Colombia 
[10] The Leyden jar was an early example of this electrical component which stores energy in an electric 
field. 
ANSWER:  
Capacitor 
[10] This goddess of grain and fertility was the Roman counterpart to the Greek goddess Demeter. 
ANSWER:  
Ceres 
[10] This Spanish author wrote about Sancho Panza and Dulcinea in his novel  
Don Quixote 
. 
ANSWER: Miguel de  
Cervantes 
[10] This Spanish conquistador explored the Colorado River while looking for the Seven Cities of Gold. 
ANSWER: Francisco Vasquez de  
Coronado 
 y Lujan 
[10] This impressionist painter painted many views of Mt. Saint Victoire as well as  
The Cardplayers 
 and  
The Bathers 
. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Cezanne 
[10] This Romanian mountain range begins in Slovakia near the Danube. 
ANSWER:  
Carpathian 
 Mountains 
[10] This is the SI unit of luminous intensity. 
ANSWER:  
Candela 
015-10-14-0410-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  12 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
The Letter D 
[10] This man founded the newspaper  
The North Star 
 after escaping from slavery in Maryland. 
ANSWER: Frederick  
Douglass 
[10] This is the name often given to the foreign policy initiative of William Taft to shore up Central 
American power by guaranteeing loans there. 
ANSWER:  
Dollar Diplomacy 
[10] This part of a neuron branches off from the axon and conduct electrochemical stimuli. 
ANSWER:  
Dendrite 
s 
[10] This is the isotope of hydrogen whose nucleus contains one neutron and one proton. 
ANSWER:  
Deuterium 
[10] This artist of readymades like  
Fountain 
 raised controversy with his painting  
Nude Descending a 
Staircase 
. 
ANSWER: Marcel  
Duchamp 
[10] This American author included  
1919 
 and  
The Big Money 
 in his  
USA Trilogy 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Dos Passos 
[10] This Russian author of  
The Idiot 
 wrote about the murderous Raskolnikov in the novel  
Crime and 
Punishment 
ANSWER: Fyodor  
Dostoyevsky 
[10] This four sided top with Hebrew lettering is often spun during the Jewish holiday of Hanukah. 
ANSWER:  
Dreidel 
[10] This Canadian rapper is part of Lil Wayne's Young Money Entertainment and found success in the US 
with the song “Best I Ever Had.” 
ANSWER:  
Drake 
 [or Aubrey Drake  
Graham 
] 
[10] This US city is home to an arts district called Deep Ellum and is often grouped with its neighbor 
Fort-Worth. 
ANSWER:  
Dallas 
015-10-14-0410-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  13 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 4 
12 20-Point Tossups 
1. This man painted a gambler reaching into his back pocket to pull out a club card in his  
The Cardsharps 
. 
Jesus’s arm is outstretched while dining with three other men in this painter’s  
The Supper at Emmaus 
. This 
painter used chiaroscuro (CARE-uss-CORE-oh) to depict a man named Levi at a table with four other men 
collecting taxes while St. Peter and Jesus enter. For 20 points, name this Italian painter of  
The Calling of 
Saint Matthew 
. 
ANSWER:  
Caravaggio 
 [or Michelangelo  
Merisi 
] 
027-10-14-04101 
2. Mr. Quinian is present when the title character of this novel meets a man that eventually moves to 
Australia with Little Em'ly. Betsey Trotwood is the aunt of this novel's protagonist, who used to love Dora 
Spenlow. Another character in this novel ends up praising prison after being exposed by Mr. Micawber. The 
mother of this novel's title character marries the abusive Edward Murdstone. For 20 points, name this British 
novel whose title character marries Agnes Wickfield and clashes with Uriah Heap. 
ANSWER:  
David Copperfield 
 [or  
The Personal History, Adventures, Experience and Observation of  David 
Copperfield  the Younger of Blunderstone Rookery (which he never meant to publish on any account) 
] 
033-10-14-04102 
3. This thinker argued against the liberal policies of Gladstone in  
The Man Versus the State 
. This thinker 
conceived of society as a living organism in his  
Principles of Sociology 
. This man posited the development 
of societies from military to complex and industrial and outlined \"individuation\" in  
Social Statics 
, which 
also introduced this man's interpretation of natural selection. For 20 points, name this British thinker who 
coined the term \"survival of the fittest\" and developed Social Darwinism. 
ANSWER: Herbert  
Spencer 
005-10-14-04103 
4. This man was stripped of his offices when it was revealed that he attempted to negotiate a peace with the 
Swedish Count Folke Bernadotte. This man orchestrated an attempted assassination on Albert Speer in 
February 1944, and he masterminded the purge of the SA in 1934. His ordering of the deportation of 8,000 
Jews in January 1943 sparked the Warsaw Ghetto uprising, and this man established Nazi Germany's first 
concentration camp at Dachau. For 20 points, name this Nazi leader who headed the SS. 
ANSWER: Heinrich  
Himmler 
030-10-14-04104 
5. This object is not present in a series of models dubbed \"Technicolor.\" One theory on how to produce one 
of these objects is based on gluons decaying into a top quark and its antiparticle, then fusing. Another theory 
on how they form involves the fusion of certain \"W\" and \"Z\" particles. The Standard Model predicts the 
existence of this particle, while conformation of its existence will hopefully be supplied by experiments in 
the Large Hadron Collider. For 20 points, name this \"God Particle\" that is a boson named for a scientist. 
ANSWER:  
Higgs 
 Boson 
033-10-14-04105 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  14 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. The book named for this man includes the statement that \"Assyria [is] the rod of my anger,\" referring to 
Tiglath-Pileser III's invasion. Along with Micah, he discussed how nations will beat their swords into 
plowshares and not take up arms against each other. The Septuagint translation of his prophesy claims that a 
virgin will \"conceive and bear a son\" who was called Immanuel. For 20 points, name this prophet who 
warned Israel that its immorality would lead to an invasion, whose namesake book is found between the  
Song of Songs 
 and  
Jeremiah 
. 
ANSWER:  
Isaiah 
 [or  
Isaias 
; or  
Yesha’yahu 
] 
027-10-14-04106 
7. In one of this author's novels, Mariam and Laila form a close bond because of the brutal abuse delivered 
by their husband Rasheed. In another of this author's novels, Assef rapes Hassan on the day that Amir wins a 
local tournament in Kabul. This author's two major novels are set in his home country, Afghanistan. For 20 
points, name this author of A Thousand Splendid Suns and The Kite Runner. 
ANSWER: Khaled  
Hosseini 
004-10-14-04107 
8. These features together form a structure that sits above the calyx (KAY-lix). The term merosity 
(muh-ROSS-it-ee) refers to how many of these structures a plant has. Monocots have a multiple of three of 
these structures. Where one might expect these structures in asters, many \"ray florets\" are exhibited, which 
are merely flowers with a single one of these. The tepals differentiate into sepals and these structures. For 20 
points, give this component of a flower. 
ANSWER:  
petal 
s 
022-10-14-04108 
9. In Maurice Maeterlinck's  
The Blue Bird 
, Tyltyl (TILL-till) receives a hat containing a magic one of these 
items that reveals the true world when it is turned. In  
The Count of Monte-Cristo 
, Edmond Dantes ruins 
Caderousse by giving one of these items as a gift. Miladay de Winter steals two of these items in  
The Three 
Musketeers 
. John Unger finds out that Percy Washington's family lives on top of one of these items in 
another story. For 20 points, identify this gemstone which is \"as big as the Ritz\" in an F. Scott Fitzgerald 
short story. 
ANSWER:  
diamond 
s 
019-10-14-04109 
10. A \"wild\" one is one that has not been given a specific value. Its functionality can be duplicated with a 
one-dimensional array. When one is \"double indirect,\" it means there are two of these before the actual data 
can be found. They are crucial in the creation of linked lists. Arithmetic with them involves moving up and 
down a number of bytes depending on the data type being referenced. For 20 points, name this type of 
variable whose value is a memory address. 
ANSWER:  
pointer 
 variable 
047-10-14-04110 
11. One ruler of this dynasty fell to his death down several steps in his library and had reclaimed his empire 
from the usurper Sher Shah Suri. The golden age of this dynasty occurred under an illiterate king whose 
court included the \"Nine Jewels,\" including Birbal. The jizya tax for non-Muslims was reinstated by this 
dynasty's emperor Aurangzeb (ore-ANG-zehb), the son of a ruler who erected a public monument for his 
wife Mumtaz. This empire was founded by the Afghani ruler Babur and ruled by Shah Jahan and Akbar. For 
20 points, name this late-medieval Islamic empire in India. 
ANSWER:  
Mughal 
 Empire 
020-10-14-04111 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  15 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. The exploits of one of this empire's rulers was detailed in the Black Obelisk. One of its leaders, 
Esar-Haddon, oversaw the conquest of Egypt, and that man murdered his brother Sennacherib 
(SEN-uh-CHAIR-ihb). A library of over 22,000 tablets was assembled by one of its rulers, Assurbanipal, 
and Sargon established a dynasty of this empire. For 20 points, name this ancient empire of the Middle East, 
with capital at Nineveh. 
ANSWER:  
Assyria 
n empire 
030-10-14-04112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  16 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 4 
Tiebreakers 
1. In C++, the keyword \"this\" is a pointer stored in a data structure of this type. An overflow for named this 
type of data structure if the \"call\" one has its memory overused. The elements of it can be pushed and pop, 
and they operate under the \"last in, first out\" paradigm. For 10 points, name this \"vertical\" counterpart to the 
queue. 
ANSWER:  
stack 
033-10-14-04131 
2. This composer used strings to accompany the words of Jesus, creating a so-called \"halo\" effect, in his 
setting of the sufferings of Christ. This composer wrote fifteen Two-Part Inventions for his pupils, as well as 
choral works such as the  
St. Matthew Passion 
. Glenn Gould specialized in playing works of this composer, 
such as  
The Art of the Fugue 
 [FYOOG] and the  
Goldberg Variations 
. For 10 points, name this 
eighteenth-century German composer of  
The Well-Tempered Clavier 
 [kluh-VEER] and the  
Brandenburg 
Concertos 
. 
ANSWER:  ohann  ebastian  
J S Bach 
 [prompt on  
Bach 
; prompt on  ohann  
J Bach 
] 
004-10-14-04132 
3. The Papagayo (PAH-pah-GYE-oh) and Tehuano (tay-HWAN-oh) types of this phenomenon are crucial to 
Central American ecosystems. This phenomenon is measured using the Beaufort Scale. Energy can be 
harvested from this phenomenon using namesake turbines. A a drop in temperature in the presence of this 
phenomenon is its namesake \"chill.\" For 10 points, name this movement of air from high pressure to low 
pressure. 
ANSWER:  
wind 
003-10-14-04133 
Colonia Tournament     Round 4     Page  17 of 17 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
