2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 2 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This man's actions are history \"as tragedy,\" as opposed to their repetition as \"farce,\" according to Karl 
Marx. This man's brother Joseph was opposed in the siege of Salamanca during the Peninsular War. Abbe 
Sieyes (see-ESS) supported this man's coup of 18 Brumaire against the Directory, and his losses included 
the Battles of Leipzig and Borodino. This ruler died in exile on St. Helena. For 10 points, name this First 
Consul who was previously exiled to Elba, a short emperor who lost at Waterloo. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon 
 Bonaparte [or  
Napoleon 
 I; prompt on  
Bonaparte 
] 
104-13-74-02101 
2. This man collaborated with Alfred Kroeber to study the Yurok. Originally an art teacher, he was inspired 
to change professions after being psychoanalyzed by Anna Freud. This author of  
Gandhi’s Truth 
 invented 
\"psychohistory\" in  
Young Man Luther 
 and described his major theory, including steps such as \"ego 
integrity v. despair,\" in  
Childhood and Society. 
 For 10 points, identify this psychologist who believed that 
each person progresses through eight stages of life conflict. 
ANSWER: Erik Homburger  
Erikson 
019-13-74-02102 
3. A kinase that acts on this compound is responsible for activating the anti-HSV drug acyclovir. 
5-methyl-cytosine deaminates (dee-AM-in-ates) to form this compound. Xeroderma pigmentosum results 
when cells are unable to remove cyclobutane dimers of this compound created by UV light. The Azido- 
form of this compound is a chain terminator and early HIV drug. For 10 points, name this nucleotide base 
that is unique to DNA and forms two hydrogen bonds with adenine. 
ANSWER: DNA base   [or  
T thymidine 
; or  
thymine 
; or  
thymidylate 
; do not accept \"thiamine\"] 
048-13-74-02103 
4. This character is contrasted with Boomer, who advises this man to abandon his quest. He employs the 
Persian Fedallah and climactically shouts, “from hell’s heart I stab at thee, for hate’s sake I spit my last 
breath at thee.” He is killed when he is caught by the loop of his own harpoon, a death witnessed by the 
sole survivor of his crew, Ishmael. For 10 points, name this obsessive captain of the  
Pequod 
 who hunts the 
title whale in Herman Melville’s  
Moby-Dick. 
ANSWER: Captain  
Ahab 
052-13-74-02104 
5. The slowest of these is the Gakkel. The youngest magnetic stripe anomalies are found closest to these 
features. These features create MORB. The slab-pull from subduction zones helps form these features. 
These features form the longest continuous chain of volcanoes on Earth. They are the most common place 
to find black smokers, a type of hydrothermal vent. For 10 points, identify these underwater mountain 
systems formed at divergent plate boundaries. 
ANSWER:  
mid-ocean ridge 
ic  s [prompt on  
spread 
ing  
ridge 
s; prompt on  
divergent 
 plate  
boundaries 
 until 
it is read] 
066-13-74-02105 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  1 of 10 
6. In this book, the protagonist is enraged when his group is compared to “mule drivers” and “mud 
diggers.” Its main character meets a “tattered soldier” who makes the protagonist feel guilty by asking him 
about his wound. This book’s main character witnesses the death of his friend, Jim Conklin. The 
protagonist is a member of the 304th New York Regiment, Henry Fleming, whose romantic vision of war is 
quickly shattered. For 10 points, name this Stephen Crane novel about the Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
The  Red Badge of Courage 
052-13-74-02106 
7. This state's Pennyroyal Region is located on the north of the Highland Rim, a plain that surrounds its 
second-largest city. That city, in this state, is combined with Davidson in a metropolitan area. This state is 
the location of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory and Clingman’s Dome, the highest peak in the Great 
Smoky Mountains. The original name of this state was Franklin, and it is now home to Murfreesboro. For 
10 points, name this state whose flagship university is found in Knoxville. 
ANSWER:  
Tennessee 
019-13-74-02107 
8. In one of this author’s novels, Vera Claythorne allows a child to drown. In another novel by her, Mr. 
Rachett is killed by people angry over the Armstrong baby kidnapping. She wrote a work in which \"U.N. 
Owen\" kills ten people for their crimes while using a nursery rhyme as his guide. This author created a 
Belgian who uses his \"little grey cells\" to solve the  
Murder on the Orient Express. 
 For 10 points, name this 
female British mystery novelist who created Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple. 
ANSWER: Agatha  
Christie 
 [or Agatha Mary Clarissa  
Christie 
; or Agatha  
Miller 
; or Mary  
Westmacott 
] 
052-13-74-02108 
9. After this event, Roger Boisjoly quit his job at Morton Thiokol to speak on workplace ethics. In response 
to it, the President quoted lines about people who \"slipped the surly bonds of Earth\" to \"touch the face of 
God.\" People who investigated this event included Chuck Yeager and Richard Feynman. This event killed 
Christa McAuliffe, a teacher, and was blamed on O-ring failures. For 10 points, name this event that 
occurred on January 28, 1986, when a space shuttle blew up during liftoff. 
ANSWER:  
Challenger 
 disaster 
052-13-74-02109 
10. It's not the mitochondria, but these organelles are the site of the Mot complex, which pumps protons. 
Cryptomona unusually have two of these on either side. They evolved from the type III secretory system. 
This organelle’s subcomponents are interconnected by dynein, and one side of it is attached to the basal 
body. It consists of nine doublets of microtubules arranged in a central doublet. For 10 points, name these 
whiplike projections used by cells to move. 
ANSWER:  
flagella 
 [or  
flagellum 
; do not accept or prompt on \"cilium\" or \"cilia\"] 
048-13-74-02110 
11. Pablo Neruda wrote several poems of this genre which focused on things such as a lemon, salt, and 
tomatoes, called the \"elemental\" ones. Pindar wrote many of these poems pertaining to victories. A 
classical one includes the strophe (STRO-fee) and the antistrophe (AN-tis-tro-fee), and a famous example 
of this type of work includes the exclamation, \"Thou wast not born for death, immortal bird!\" For 10 
points, identify this poetic form used by Keats in addressing a nightingale. 
ANSWER:  
ode 
s 
189-13-74-02111 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  2 of 10 
12. Conductivity times the electric field give the current type of this quantity. The square root of bulk 
modulus over this quantity gives the speed of sound in a fluid. Also, in fluids, this quantity times 
gravitational acceleration times height yields pressure. At room temperature, osmium has the highest value 
for it. It must be smaller for an object in a fluid than the fluid it is in for the object to float. For 10 points, 
name this physical quantity equal to mass per unit of volume. 
ANSWER:  
density 
 [prompt on  
rho 
] 
104-13-74-02112 
13. In the 1950s, Semyon Bogatyrev completed this man’s abandoned symphony in E-flat. Between his 
fourth and fifth symphony, he depicted the guilt-stricken lover of Astarte wandering in the Alps in his  
Manfred 
 symphony. He included the dueling \"La Marseillaise\" and \"God Save the Tsar\" anthems in a work 
topped off with cannon-fire. For 10 points, name this composer of the  
Pathétique Symphony 
, who depicted 
the defeat of Napoleon in his  
1812 Overture. 
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich  
Tchaikovsky 
019-13-74-02113 
14. These people believed in a goggle-eyed god which ruled the domain of people who died because of 
water. One of their gods lost his foot to the \"earth monster\" and replaced it with an obsidian mirror. They 
settled their capital on an island after seeing an eagle perched on a cactus, a vision created by the 
\"left-handed hummingbird\" god, Huitzilopochtli (WEET-sil-o-POCH-lee). For 10 points, name this 
Mesoamerican people who worshiped the feathered serpent god Quetzalcoatl (KETZ-ul-coh-AH-tul). 
ANSWER:  
Aztec 
 [or  
Nahuatl 
] 
052-13-74-02114 
15. In rats and humans, one form of this phenomenon is aided by the perforant pathway and the buildup of 
NMDA receptors, aiding synaptic plasticity in a process called LTP. In C, a resource of this name must be 
allocated with the \"malloc\" command and is found in the stack and in the heap. The biological type is 
consolidated by the hippocampus. For 10 points, give this common term for the space available to store 
computer tasks and the capacity of people to retrieve stored information. 
ANSWER:  
memory 
 [or long-term  
memory 
; prompt on  
learning 
; prompt on  
potentiation 
] 
104-13-74-02115 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  3 of 10 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 2 
Directed Round 
1A.  What daughter of Felix Tholomyes is taken in by the Thenardiers (tay-NAR-dee-ays) and adopted by 
Jean Valjean after her mother Fantine dies in  
Les Miserables 
? 
ANSWER:  
Cosette 
 Fauchelevent [or Cosette  
Fauchelevent 
; or  
Euphrasie 
 Fauchelevent] 
1B.  What term refers to both a type of extremely absorbent charcoal with high surface area and the energy 
needed to begin a chemical reaction? 
ANSWER:  
activation 
 [or word forms] 
2A.   
Shadow and Act 
 is an essay collection by what African-American author, best known for writing  
Invisible Man 
? 
ANSWER: Ralph Waldo  
Ellison 
2B.  What trigonometric function measures the y-coordinate of an angle on the unit circle and is defined as 
opposite over hypotenuse? 
ANSWER:  
sin 
e 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If there is a 20% chance of rain on Saturday, and 
independently there is a 10% chance of rain on Sunday, what is the probability that it does not rain either 
day? 
ANSWER:  
72% 
 [or  
18/25 
; or 0 
.72 
] 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Equilateral triangle ABC is inscribed in a circle with center at 
O. What is the measure of angle AOC? 
ANSWER:  
120 
 degrees 
4A.  What was the primary instrument played by jazz musicians Artie Shaw, Buddy DeFranco, and Benny 
Goodman? 
ANSWER:  
clarinet 
4B.  What neutral particles were discovered by James Chadwick and consist of one up quark and two down 
quarks? 
ANSWER:  
neutron 
5A.  What liquid mixtures have a unique boiling point and cannot be separated into unique liquids by 
distillation? 
ANSWER:  
azeotrope 
s 
5B.  Identify the photo-sharing service which was purchased by Facebook for one billion dollars in April 
2012 and caused controversy in December with a terms-of-service change allowing it to sell users’ photos. 
ANSWER:  
Instagram 
6A.  What poem, which ends by describing \"a heart whose love is innocent,\" was written by Lord Byron 
about a woman \"like the night of cloudless climes and starry skies\"? 
ANSWER: \" 
She Walks in Beauty 
\" 
6B.  What type of program translates source code into machine code, which can be understood by a 
computer? 
ANSWER:  
compiler 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  4 of 10 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the vertex of the parabola described by the equation y 
equals x squared minus 8 x minus 17. 
ANSWER:  
(4,-33) 
 [or  
x = 4 and y = -33 
] 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the tangent of the first-quadrant angle whose sine is 
12/13? 
ANSWER:  
12/5 
 [or  
2.4 
] 
8A.  Fermina Daza marries Juvenal (HOO-vay-nal) Urbino, breaking the heart of Florentino Ariza 
(ah-REET-zuh), in what Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel? 
ANSWER:  
Love in the Time of Cholera 
 [or  
El  Amor en los Tiempos del Colera 
] 
8B.  Name the war in which the Mackenzie-Papineau and Lincoln-Washington battalions served in the 
International Brigades to oppose the Condor Legion-backed Nationalists. 
ANSWER:  
Spanish Civil 
 War 
9A.  Which crusading order lost its holdings between the Baltic region and Germany after a 1410 battle 
called Grunwald or Tannenberg? 
ANSWER:  
Teuton 
ic Knights [or  
Teuton 
ic Order; or House of the Hospitalers of Saint Mary of the  
Teuton 
s in Jerusalem; or  
Deutsch 
er Ritter-Orden; or Haus der Ritter des Hospitals Sankt Marien der  
Deutsch 
en 
zu Jerusalem; or Domus Sanctae Maria  
Theuton 
icorum in Jerusalem] 
9B.  Auckland, Wellington, and over three quarters of the country’s population are found on what island of 
New Zealand? 
ANSWER: the  
North 
 Island [or  
Te Ika-a-Maui 
] 
10A.  What American artist painted a famous portrait of Paul Revere along with a scene set in Havana 
Harbor,  
Watson and the Shark? 
ANSWER: John Singleton  
Copley 
10B.  Name the hockey team which plays in the BB&T Center, reached the Stanley Cup Finals against the 
Avalanche in only their third year of existence, and whose highest all-time scorer is Olli Jokinen. 
ANSWER: Florida  
Panthers 
 [or  
Florida 
 Panthers] 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  5 of 10 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 2 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In lesser-noted parts of this election, John Lehman took the seat of Van Wanggaard, and Mahlon 
Mitchell failed to unseat Rebecca Kleefisch. After a primary challenge by Kathleen Falk, Tom Barrett lost 
by seven points in this election, which resolved the same issue that sparked a March 2011 occupation of the 
state capitol. A proposed restriction in collective bargaining rights by public employees was the major issue 
in, for 10 points, what June 2012 election in which Scott Walker retained his governorship? 
ANSWER: 2012  
Wisconsin recall 
 election [or  
recall 
 election of Scott  
Walker 
 until \"Scott Walker\" is 
read; prompt on  
recall 
 election; prompt on Wisconsin  
gubernatorial 
 election; prompt on Wisconsin  
governor 
's election] 
019-13-74-02117 
2. This disease is treated by glatiramir (GLA-tir-aa-mir) acetate and interferon. The symptoms of this 
disease are exacerbated by heat in Unthoff’s phenomenon. An early symptom of this disease, resulting 
from the degradation of the medial longitudinal fasciculus (fass-IK-yoo-lus), is the eyes being unable to 
move together. This disease eventually leads to paralysis. For 10 points, name this autoimmune disease, in 
which antibodies to the myelin sheath interfere with nerve transmission, known as \"MS.\" 
ANSWER:  
multiple sclerosis 
 [or  
MS 
 until it is read] 
048-13-74-02118 
3. The speaker of this poem says he will \"quaff\" a \"kind nepenthe\" to forget. This poem's speaker asks \"is 
there balm in Gilead?\" to a being he calls a \"thing of evil\" before finally telling it to return to \"Night's 
Plutonian shore.\" The title character is last seen sitting \"on the pallid bust of Pallas\" above the speaker's 
chamber door. This poem begins \"once upon a midnight dreary,\" and its narrator laments the lost Lenore. 
For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe poem about a bird who says \"nevermore.\" 
ANSWER: “The  
Raven 
” 
052-13-74-02119 
4. One member of this family was a disciple of Howard Pyle in the Brandywine School, painted the 
massive  
Apotheosis of the Family, 
 and illustrated the  
Scribner's Classics 
 series. Another member of this 
family made 247 depictions of Helga Testorf, as well as a painting in which a woman looks at a distant 
farmhouse from a position on the ground in a pink dress. For 10 points, give this surname of illustrator N.C. 
and the painter of  
Christina's World, 
 Andrew. 
ANSWER:  
Wyeth 
019-13-74-02120 
5. At the center of this place is the plain of Idavoll, where the assembly hall Gladsheim is located. In 
payment for the construction of a wall around this location within six months, the sun and the moon were 
promised to Hrimthurs (RIM-thurz), whose horse was seduced by Loki in the form of a mare. This realm 
sits at the top of the universe next to Alfheim and Vanaheim, and is where Valhalla and the throne of Odin 
are found. For 10 points, identify this realm of the ruling gods in Norse mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Asgard 
019-13-74-02121 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  6 of 10 
6. In an interview with Matt Lauer, this politician popularized the phrase \"vast right-wing conspiracy.\" This 
person wrote the book  
It Takes a Village 
 and was the first woman to be full partner at the Rose Law Firm. 
She defeated Rick Lazio in 2000 to become a Senator from New York. Along with her husband, this 
woman was investigated in the Whitewater scandal, but stood by her husband through his affair with 
Monica Lewinsky. For 10 points, name this first Secretary of State for Barack Obama, a former First Lady. 
ANSWER: Hillary Rodham  
Clinton 
 [or Hillary Diane  
Rodham 
] 
052-13-74-02122 
7. In Spanish, the notion of doing something \"again\" is conveyed by conjugating the verbal phrase \"volver 
a\" but putting the verb for what is done again in this form. Unlike in English, this verb mood is used, rather 
than the gerund, when a verb is serving as a noun. This Spanish verb mood consists of the verb stem plus 
the endings \"-ar,\" (READ OUT LETTERS) \"-er,\" or \"-ir.\" For 10 points, identify this Spanish verb mood 
which is translated as \"to\" do something. 
ANSWER: Spanish  
infinitive 
 mood [or el  
infinitivo 
] 
019-13-74-02123 
8. One character in this book kills a man for wounding him and says he will be avenged 
\"seventy-sevenfold.\" Another person in this book is named Seth because he replaces another man who has 
been killed. After a murder in this book, one man asks \"am I my brother’s keeper?\" Two people in it are 
undone after they eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. For 10 points, name this Biblical 
book which contains the story of Adam and Eve, the first in the Old Testament. 
ANSWER: Book of  
Genesis 
 [or  
Bereshit 
; prompt on The  
Bible 
 until \"Biblical\" is read; prompt on  
Old 
Testament 
 until it is read] 
052-13-74-02124 
9. In March 2012, this man filed a lawsuit against the owner of the television channel Faraeen, Tawfiq 
Okasha, claiming that Okasha’s three-hour presentation against this man was defamatory. In June 2012, he 
resigned as chairman of the Freedom and Justice Party after defeating Ahmed Shafik in an election. In 
November 2012, he declared that he had the power to rule by decree. For 10 points, name this Muslim 
Brotherhood member, the current president of Egypt. 
ANSWER: Mohamed  
Morsi 
019-13-74-02125 
10. In one film starring these people, Aunt Jessie develops a crush on Buster Bloodvessel. Their second 
film bears the dedication \"to Elias Howe, who, in 1846, invented the sewing machine.\" They are 
fictionalized in an animated movie that shows the Blue Meanies attacking Pepperland. Richard Lester 
directed the first two films starring this group,  
A Hard Day's Night 
 and  
Help! 
 For 10 points, name this 
musical group, whose breakup was shown in the documentary  
Let It Be. 
ANSWER: The  
Beatles 
019-13-74-02126 
11. The equipartition theorem and Gauss' divergence theorem can be used to prove a form of this law using 
particle number multiplied by Boltzmann's constant. This law applies best at high temperatures and low 
pressures. It can be derived by synthesizing the laws of Avogadro, Boyle, and Charles, and applying a 
namesake constant equal to about 8.31 joules per Kelvin mole. For 10 points, name this equation of state, 
often written as \"PV equals nRT\", which applies to a certain phase of matter. 
ANSWER:  
ideal gas 
 law 
190-13-74-02127 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  7 of 10 
12. One character created by this author studies under the Elder Brother at the Bamboo Grove and tutors 
Tito, the son of his childhood friend Plinio Designori. Another novel by this man features a saxophonist 
named Pablo who has an affair with Hermine, much to the dismay of Harry Haller. He also wrote about a 
youth who seeks enlightenment with Govinda. For 10 points, identify this German-Swiss author of  
The 
Glass Bead Game, Steppenwolf, 
   and  
Siddhartha. 
ANSWER: Hermann  
Hesse 
189-13-74-02128 
13. People who support this process receive money from a group whose acronym means \"Early Money Is 
Like Yeast.\" While supported by EMILY's List, this action is opposed by the Susan B. Anthony List. A 
Supreme Court case on it involved a woman named Norma McCorvey. While at his church in Wichita, 
George Tiller was killed by a man who opposed this process, the subject of the case  
Planned Parenthood v. 
Casey 
. For 10 points, name this process legalized in many states following the  
Roe v. Wade 
 decision. 
ANSWER:  
abortion 
 [or equivalents such as  
terminated pregnancies 
] 
052-13-74-02129 
14. This man's henchmen killed optician Reinhardt Schwimmer. His power was eventually assumed by a 
triumvirate including \"Joe Batters\" and \"The Enforcer,\" Frank Nitti. His organization merged with that of 
mentor Johnny Torio. He was investigated for violating the Volstead Act by Eliot Ness and the 
Untouchables. He was sent to prison on charges of federal tax evasion, not for masterminding the St. 
Valentine's Day Massacre. For 10 points, name this Chicago-based mobster known as \"Scarface.\" 
ANSWER: Alphonse Gabriel  
Capone 
052-13-74-02130 
15. Around 1680, the Poike (POY-kay) massacre took place here, in which the Short-Ears overthrew the 
rule of the Long-Ears. The crater lake Rano Aroi provides the only moving body of water on this island, a 
stream that flows down Mount Terevaka. The rongo-rongo writing system was used in this place, where the 
red hairlike  
pukao 
 and the  
ahu 
 platforms were found. For 10 points, name this Chilean-controlled island 
that preserves several hundred  
moai, 
 which are giant stone heads. 
ANSWER:  
Easter 
 Island [or  
Rapa Nui 
; or  
 Te Pito te Henua 
; or Isla de  
Pascua 
] 
019-13-74-02131 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  8 of 10 
2013 VHSL Regionals 
Round 2 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This president turned away from the socialistic policies of his predecessor with the \"opening\" or \"infitah\" 
program, which led to bread riots in 1977. Later that year, he made a landmark address to the Knesset 
(keh-NESS-it), which set up his meetings with Menachem Begin (meh-NOCK-um BAY-gin). Khalid 
Islambouli assassinated this man in 1981, upset at the resultant peace agreement. For 10 points, name this 
man who succeeded Gamel Nasser as president of Egypt and negotiated peace with Israel. 
ANSWER: Muhammad Anwar el- 
Sadat 
019-13-74-02132 
2. This scientist wrote  
Insectivorous Plants 
 and  
The Power of Movement in Plants 
. he was encouraged by 
Charles Lyell to publish his most famous theory. He discussed secondary sex characteristics in  
The Descent 
of Man. 
 He accumulated significant amounts of data during his voyage on the  
HMS Beagle 
 to the 
Galapagos Islands, where he extensively studied finches. For 10 points, name this British scientist who 
wrote of natural selection in  
The Origin of Species. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Darwin 
189-13-74-02133 
3. In this novel, the chauvinist Charles Tansley mocks an artist by saying, \"Women can't paint, women can't 
write.\" The protagonist of this novel is killed off in a subordinate clause of its second section, \"Time 
Passes.\" At its end, Lily Briscoe finally completes her abstract painting of an old friend when she returns to 
that friend's summer home in the Hebrides. For 10 points, name this novel about the Ramsay family by 
Virginia Woolf. 
ANSWER:  
To the Lighthouse 
080-13-74-02134 
4. One of these statements is sometimes known as Nernst's theorem. Another of these statements states that 
if two systems are in equilibrium with a third system, then they are also in equilibrium with each other. Yet 
another of these statements states that the entropy of a perfect crystal is zero at absolute zero. The first one 
deals with the principle of conservation of energy. For 10 points, name this set of laws, the second of which 
roughly states that entropy always increases. 
ANSWER:  
laws of thermodynamics 
024-13-74-02135 
5. ZEA is a fungal compound that imitates these hormones, whose receptors are activated by bisphenol A. 
These compounds’ receptors are selectively modulated by raloxifene and tamoxifen. Their levels are 
decreased by anastrozole because they require aromatase for their production. These compounds, which 
contain eighteen carbons and are derived from cholesterol, are secreted from the ovaries along with 
progesterone. For 10 points, name this hormone family, important for sexual development in women. 
ANSWER:  
estrogen 
s [prompt on  
sex hormones 
; prompt on  
steroid 
 hormones] 
048-13-74-02136 
This is a calculation question. How many real roots does the equation x^2 + 4x + 9 = 0 (READ \"x squared 
plus four x plus 9 equals 0\") have? 
ANSWER:   [or  
0 none 
] 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  9 of 10 
In what Guy de Maupassant short story do Madame Mathilde Loisel and her husband work for ten years to 
pay back the 36,000 francs they borrowed to replace the title object, which is revealed at the end to have 
been fake? 
ANSWER: \"The  
Necklace 
\" [or \"La  
Parure 
\"; or \"The Diamond  
Necklace 
\"] 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 VHSL Regionals     2     Page  10 of 10 
