National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 14 
Tossups 
1. Late in his life, this artist produced prints like  
The Knife Thrower 
 and  
The Snail 
, known as his \"cutouts.\" 
He painted a figure with an unnaturally twisted buttock in a work subtitled \"Souvenir de Biskra,\" as well as 
a portrait of his wife with her face split in two by a \"green line.\" This painter of  
Blue Nude 
 depicted the title 
color bleeding from the floor to the wallpaper in his painting  
The Red Room 
. He used a half-blue and 
half-green landscape to display five red figures in a circle in another painting, a scene reimagined in this 
artist's  
The Joy of Life 
. For 10 points, name this painter of  
The Dance 
, the leader of Fauvism. 
ANSWER: Henri  
Matisse 
020-09-12-14102 
2. As a result of this event, Henricus Vos and Johannes van den Esschen were executed. A meeting in 
Speyer temporarily retracted the central result of this event, which resulted in a proclamation authored by 
Girolamo Aleandro. The Archbishop of Trier, Johann Eck, spoke for the emperor who convened it. 
Frederick the Wise guaranteed that one man would have safe passage to and from this meeting. It took 
place the year after Pope Leo X issued the papal bull  
Exurge Domine 
, which demanded that a man retract 
forty-one errors in his writings. Instead of retracting his errors, that man allegedly stated at this meeting 
\"Here I stand; I can do no other.\" For 10 points, name this 1521 meeting whose namesake edict outlawed 
Martin Luther as a heretic. 
ANSWER:  
Diet of Worms 
 [or  
Reichstag zu Worms 
] 
024-09-12-14103 
3. After the grandmother of this novel's narrator dies, his mother begins obsessively reading the letters of 
Madame Sevigne. This novel's narrator joins a salon consisting of the \"faithful,\" whose members include 
the polish sculptor Ski, Dr. Cottard, and the author Bergotte. In the fifth section of this novel, the narrator's 
jealousy that his lover may be secretly having lesbian affairs causes him to attempt to keep that lover, 
Albertine, in his room. This novel's third volume describes the narrator's disenchantment with the Duchess 
of Guermantes. In its opening volume, the narrator recalls his childhood in Combray after tasting a 
madeleine. For 10 points, name this novel whose sections include  
Sodom and Gomorrah Time Regained 
,  , 
and  
Swann's Way 
, the masterpiece of Marcel Proust. 
ANSWER:  
In Search of Lost Time 
 [or  
Remembrance of Things Past 
; or  
A  la Recherche du Temps Perdu 
] 
004-09-12-14104 
4. An apocryphal story describes this figure harvesting a hundred bushels from a single grain. In one 
speech, he attacked people who \"hold on to the traditions of men,\" and his description of the end times is 
sometimes called the Olivet discourse. Abraham Lincoln quoted this man's assertion that \"a house divided 
cannot stand,\" and he withered a fig tree when it failed to provide him with fruit. One selection of this 
man's teachings is known as the Great Commission, and he gave a speech in the Upper Room. This man 
aided in the catching of 153 fish and was spotted on the Road to Emmaus after his death. For 10 points, 
name this religious figure who walked on water and was crucified. 
ANSWER:  
Jesus 
022-09-12-14105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  1 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. The volunteer \"four-minute men\" gave speeches supporting this war. During this war, the American 
Protective League conducted illegal raids on supposed \"slackers.\" Propaganda supporting this war was 
disseminated by a committee led by George Creel. The Nye Committee's investigation into the profits 
munitions companies made from this war helped lead to policy of isolationism embodied in three Neutrality 
Acts. The speech entering the United States into this war declared that \"the world must be made safe for 
democracy.\" For 10 points, name this war that prompted the creation of the League of Nations and took 
place during the presidency of Woodrow Wilson. 
ANSWER:  
World War I 
 [or the  
Great War 
] 
004-09-12-14106 
6. During the pathogenesis of Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia, one of these events results in the PML gene 
being under the control of the retinoic acid receptor. One of these puts the c-myc gene under the control of 
the immunoglobulin heavy-chain enhancer in Burkitt’s lymphoma. This is the mechanism for the 
formation of a structure which encodes the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase named for Philadelphia, which causes 
chronic myelogenous leukemia. The loss of two p arms occurs in the Robertsonian type of this, which is 
responsible for a small percentage of Down syndrome. They can be balanced or unbalanced depending on 
whether genetic material is lost in the process. For 10 points, name this moving of parts of one 
chromosome to another. 
ANSWER:  
translocation 
 [prompt on  
rearrangement 
] 
001-09-12-14107 
7. This man’s government hosted the World People’s Conference of Climate Change as a follow up of the 
Copenhagen conference. He supports the Red Ponchos movement and most recently he defeated rival 
Manfred Reyes Villa in an election. He was elected president following a series of protests regarding his 
country's production of natural gas. The party he heads led rallies in 2000 protesting water privatization in 
Cochabamba. He succeeded Eduardo Rodriguez in his current post, where he leads the Movement for 
Socialism party and advocates policies like the teaching of Quechua in classrooms and the legalization of 
coca farming. For 10 points, name this indigenous President of Bolivia. 
ANSWER: Evo  
Morales 
064-09-12-14108 
8. One incident in this conflict was Operation Praying Mantis, which occurred after the near destruction of 
the  
Samuel B. Roberts 
. The United States carried out Operations Earnest Will and Prime Chance during this 
conflict to protect ships during the “Tanker War” phase. The U.S. supplied “dump bombs” to one side in 
this conflict, although thanks to an illegal arms deal involving the Contras, it was also indirectly supplying 
the other side as well. During the waning days of this conflict, one side inflicted the Halabja poison gas 
attack on its Kurdish population. For 10 points, name this war that lasted between 1980 and 1988 and saw 
two Middle Eastern nations fight each other under the leadership of the Ayatollah Khomeini and Saddam 
Hussein. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Iraq 
 War [order does not matter, accept  
Imposed War Holy Defense 
,  , and  
Saddam’s 
Qadisiyyah 
] 
052-09-12-14109 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  2 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. The Heilbronn Problem is to find the set of points on the edge of a unit-area shape that maximizes the 
area of the smallest of these thus formed. The construction of one of these objects is the subject of a 
problem posed by Lemoine whose solution is the Kiepert hyperbola. These objects have two points defined 
by a certain angle all three of which are named for Brocard. Whether or not three lines in these objects will 
be concurrent can be determined using Ceva's theorem. One method of finding the area of these objects 
uses the semiperimeter and side lengths and is called Hero's formula. For 10 points, name these planar 
figures, the area of one of which is half its base times its height. 
ANSWER:  
triangle 
s 
023-09-12-14110 
10. One of these figures used the dove as a messenger and is named for \"eight heavenly banners.\" Another 
of these figures was known for his \"ruddy face\" and was married to a woman who performed an erotic 
dance on an overturned tub. An earlier one of these figures gave birth to the leech child after speaking out 
of turn, and turned the realm of Yomi against her husband, who created three children by washing his face. 
One of them tossed a flayed horse to upset another, who hid in a cave, from which she was lured by 
Uzume. For 10 points, name this group of deities and spirits such as Izanagi, Susano'o, and Amaterasu, who 
populate the mythology of Japan. 
ANSWER:  
Kami 
 [accept  
god 
s of  
war 
 before mention of \"ruddy face\"] 
022-09-12-14111 
11. The magnitude of this effect and the sheet resistivity can be measured simultaneously in the 
four-contact van der Pauw method. The constant characterizing the process underlying this effect can then 
be written as one over the quantity fundamental charge times sheet density times sheet resistance - that 
quantity is the constant of proportionality between the charge drift velocity and applied electric field and is 
known as the mobility. This effect can be explained by considering the Lorentz force on a drifting charge 
carrier, so its sign determines the majority carrier in semiconductors. The magnitude of this effect scales 
with applied magnetic field, so it can be used to make sensitive magnetometers. For 10 points, name this 
electromagnetic effect, the creation of a voltage gradient perpendicular to an applied current in a 
magnetized material. 
ANSWER: the  
Hall 
 effect 
064-09-12-14112 
12. The NAIRU model for this phenomenon is advocated by Milton Friedman and proposes a baseline for 
it. Edmund Phelps's investigations into it yielded an expectations-augmented form of one model of it. 
Causes of this include sectoral shift, which has frictional and structural forms. Arthur Okun proposed that 
economic output decreases by two to three percentage points for every one percentage point this rate 
increases. Excluding changes from business cycles yields the natural rate of this phenomenon, and William 
Phillips observed a correlation between an increase in wages with a decrease in this. For 10 points, name 
phenomena in which willing people are unable to find jobs. 
ANSWER:  
unemployment 
001-09-12-14113 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  3 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. This man had the nickname “Stone Arse,” although he liked to note a more accurate nickname was 
“Iron Arse.” This man’s pilot, Endel Puusepp, was honored for a dangerous flight transporting this man to 
Washington D.C. His Jewish wife, Polina, was put in a labor camp on suspicion of treason, but was later 
freed after the leader this man worked for died. While working for that leader, he earlier imposed harsh 
penalties on peasants caught “gleaning” the harvest with the Law of Spikelets. This man co-names a treaty 
which was broken when his country was invaded in Operation Barbarossa. That treaty was a 
non-aggression pact co-signed with German Foreign Minister von Ribbentrop. For 10 points, name this 
Commissar for Foreign Affairs in the Soviet Union under Stalin. 
ANSWER: Vyacheslav Mikhailovich  
Molotov 
 [or Vyacheslav Mikhailovich  
Scriabin 
] 
052-09-12-14114 
14. In one of this author's poems, the speaker laments that his sins \"pass the Jews' impiety\" because he 
crucifies Jesus not once, but \"daily, being now glorified.\" In another of this author's poems, the speaker 
asks God \"like Adamant to draw\" his \"iron heart\" after imploring \"Thou hast made me, and shall thy work 
decay?\" A third poem by this author pleads \"That I may rise, and stand, o'erthrow me, and bend / Your 
force to break, blow, burn, and make me new\" after the speaker asks \"three-person'd God\" to \"batter\" his 
heart. For 10 points, name this British poet who wrote \"death shall be no more; death, thou shalt die\" in the 
tenth of his Holy Sonnets, which begins \"Death, be not proud.\" 
ANSWER: John  
Donne 
004-09-12-14115 
15. This composer responded to the death of his four year old daughter by writing his opus fifteen piano 
trio in G minor. This composer's first string quartet ends with a movement whose coda includes a sustained 
high E natural, representing high-pitched tones ringing in his ears. He composed a symphonic poem 
depicting the massacre of Ctirad's men by Sarka, as well as a symphonic poem depicting the St. John 
Rapids, which begins with two flutes representing the two sources of the title river. This composer of a 
string quartet subtitled \"From My Life\" wrote a cycle of six nationalistic tone poems about his home 
country, beginning with one named for the fortress of Vysehrad. For 10 points, name this nineteenth 
century Czech composer of  
Ma Vlast 
, which includes his tone poem \"The Moldau.\" 
ANSWER: Bedrich  
Smetana 
024-09-12-14116 
16. This quantity is given by square root of h over two pi square root of c times reduced mass times the 
microwave spectrum line spacing in the rigid rotor approximation. Aromaticity was discovered upon 
finding via x-ray crystallography that benzene possesses only two values for this quantity. This quantity 
decreases as the p-character decreases, and it decreases as bond order increases. For 10 points, name this 
quantity, the average distance between two atoms that share electrons in a molecule, which can vary for 
carbon-carbon bonds from one hundred twenty to one hundred fifty-four nanometers. 
ANSWER:  
bond length 
022-09-12-14117 
17. Upon hearing that a god does not know the word \"alas,\" this character exclaims \"Time in its aging 
course teaches all things.\" In a monologue, this character describes how he was the first to yoke animals 
and his discovery bronze, iron, silver, and gold. Oceanus counsels him to submit, although this character 
prophecies to Io that Zeus will be overthrown. At the end of the play named for this character, a bolt of 
lightning causes him to sink into an abyss. At the beginning of that play, this character is carried onstage by 
Kratos and Bia, and placed in chains by Haephestus. For 10 points, name this Titan, the title character of an 
Aeschylus play in which he is bound. 
ANSWER:  
Prometheus 
004-09-12-14118 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  4 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. One performer of this instrument co-founded Quintette du Hot Club de France along with the violinist 
Stephane Grappelli, and developed a new fingering system for this instrument after losing mobility in his 
left ring and pinky fingers. Another performer of this instrument appeared regularly with organist Melvin 
Rhyne and composed the tunes \"Four on Six\" and \"West Coast Blues.\" A third performer of this instrument 
collaborated with his wife and a saxophonist to produce the seminal album of bossa nova,  
Getz/Gilberto 
. 
This instrument was played by Django Reinhardt, Wes Montgomery, and Charlie Christian, who 
demonstrated the viability of this instrument's electric version as a solo instrument. For 10 points, name this 
stringed instrument played by blues musicians such as Blind Lemon Jefferson and B. B. King. 
ANSWER:  
guitar 
003-09-12-14119 
19. This work describes a process by which individuality manifests itself in cellular, genetic, organic, and 
combinatory ways. One place examined in this text is located in Mettray. This work opens by discussing 
the treatment of Robert-Francois Damiens. A central concept in this work is the \"unequal gaze,\" which 
allows the observers to watch without those being watched to know about it. This work argues that the 
central institutions create \"docile bodies\" through observation, which is exemplified by Jeremy Bentham's 
\"Panopticon.\" For 10 points, name this work subtitled \"The Birth of the Prison,\" by Michel Foucault. 
ANSWER:  
Discipline and Punish : The Birth of the Prison 
 [or  
Surveiller et punir : Naissance de la Prison 
] 
026-09-12-14120 
20. One character in this novel invents the story of Leni, a French cabaret singer who is forced to spy on the 
Nazi officer Werner. In its ninth and tenth chapters, that character describes an island where black workers 
who rebel against banana plantations are turned into zombies by a witch doctor. One of its main characters 
loves the waiter Gabriel, and retells  
I Walked With a Zombie 
 and  
Cat People 
 to a Marxist revolutionary. At 
the end of this novel, Molina is shot to death by the police, while Valentin is left in an idyllic stream of 
consciousness after being brutally tortured. For 10 points, name this 1976 novel about an Argentinean 
political prisoner listening to his gay cellmate tell movie plots, written by Manuel Puig. 
ANSWER:  
Kiss of the Spider Woman 
 [or  
El  beso de la mujer araña 
] 
052-09-12-14121 
21. A 1990 riot in the Akwesasne Territory led to questions regarding jurisdiction over this construct, 
which was the focus of the 1903 Hay-Herbert Treaty. The Pig War arose from a dispute over whether the 
Haro or Rosario Strait was meant in a clause of the Pakenham Treaty concerning it. A 1908 treaty was 
challenged when Dennis Schornack was fired as U.S. Commissioner for this in 2007. It created the exclave 
Point Roberts, and a dispute over its western part led to the resolution of the Oregon Question. For 10 
points, name this political construct that often follows the forty-ninth parallel, through which Americans 
cross to reach British Columbia or Quebec. 
ANSWER:  
United States-Canada Border 
 [or  
International Boundary 
; or other clear-knowledge 
equivalents; accept New York, Alaska, or Washington for United States] 
003-09-12-14122 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  5 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
22. This author’s great grandniece wrote a historical novel about Gustav III called  
The King with Two 
Faces 
 as well as the poems \"The White Women\" and \"The Other Side of a Mirror.\" This author wrote a 
poem celebrating \"the one Life within us and abroad, which meets all motion and becomes its soul,\" which 
is addressed to \"My pensive Sara!\" This poet’s eight \"Conversation poems\" include a poem whose speaker 
feels \"A grief without a pang, void, dark, and drear,\" as well as \"The Aeolian Harp.\" Another of this 
author's poems declares \"He prayeth best who loveth best, all things both great and small\" and is narrated 
by a Wedding Guest who \"stoppeth one of three.\" For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of \"Dejection: 
An Ode,\" who wrote about a sailor who shoots an albatross with a crossbow in \"The Rime of the Ancient 
Mariner.\" 
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor  
Coleridge 
015-09-12-14123 
23. One example of this type of biome is the relatively flat hamada, or reg [REHJ], which is contrasted with 
the less flat erg. In the Koppen classification system, this biome is given the classifications BWh and BWk. 
Clay, iron, and manganese oxide collect on rocks in this biome in a process known as its namesake 
varnishing. Flat, smooth areas in this biome are known as its namesake pavement. Because of Hadley cell 
circulation, these biomes are often found near latitudes of thirty degrees north and south. They are often 
found near mountain ranges because of the rain shadow effect. For 10 points, name this biome which is 
defined by its lack of precipitation. 
ANSWER:  
desert 
s 
015-09-12-14124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  6 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 14 
Bonuses 
1. He defeated the usurper Magnus Maximus in 388 CE. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man, the last to rule both the Eastern and Western Roman Empire, who is often called the 
emperor who made Christianity mandatory. 
ANSWER:  
Theodosius I 
 [or  
Theodosius the Great 
; prompt on  
Theodosius 
] 
[10] The Christianity which Theodosius made the state religion was the form adopted at this council of 325 
CE, which gave rise to a namesake \"creed.\" 
ANSWER: First Council of  
Nicaea 
[10] In 382 CE, Theodosius made a doomed peace with this tribe, which had recently killed Emperor 
Valens at Adrianople. They later sacked Rome under the leadership of Alaric. 
ANSWER:  
Visigoth 
s 
024-09-12-14201 
2. This figure was in love with the nymph Galatea, and killed her lover Acis in a fit of jealous rage. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this son of Thoosa, a shepherd who became drunk off strong wine and confusedly saw his ram 
lagging behind his sheep. 
ANSWER:  
Polyphemus 
[10] Polyphemus was one of these one-eyed creatures, whose other members included Brontes, Steropes, 
and Arges. 
ANSWER:  
cyclops 
 [or  
cyclopes 
] 
[10] \"The Godlike Polyphemus\" was among a strong generation of heroes apostrophized by this figure, 
who received Telemachus and lost his son Antilochus to Memnon. 
ANSWER:  
Nestor 
 of Gerênia 
023-09-12-14202 
3. Northrup et al. developed the first microfluidic device for this technique. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this technique that uses Taq polymerase and cycles of denaturing, annealing, and elongating to 
amplify DNA. 
ANSWER:  
PCR 
 [or  
Polymerase Chain Reaction 
] 
[10] The temperature cycling required to progress between different PCR steps makes use of this effect, in 
which an electric current passed through the junction between two materials causes a temperature gradient. 
ANSWER:  
Peltier 
 Effect 
[10] This technique uses a dye such as SYBR green to determine the amount of PCR product at each cycle. 
The curves generated can then be used to measure the amount of DNA present in the original sample. 
ANSWER: quantitative  
real time 
 PCR [prompt on Q 
RT 
-PCR] 
001-09-12-14203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  7 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. The Lamentation is a common theme in art. For 10 points: 
[10] This student of Cimabue showed ten angels over the body of Christ in his depiction of the Lamentation 
found at the Arena Chapel in Padua, which contains this painter's most celebrated frescoes. 
ANSWER:  
Giotto 
 di Bondone [prompt on di  
Bondone 
] 
[10] This artist, who depicted the death of St. Sebastian, showed Christ lying on a marble slab in his 
depiction of the scene. He also executed a work in which cherubs look down through a painted oculus in 
the Camera degla Sposi. 
ANSWER: Andrea  
Mantegna 
[10] Giovanni, the foremost member of this Venetian family of artists that also included his son Jacopo and 
brother Gentile, painted a version of the Lamentation and collaborated with Titian for his  
Feast of the Gods 
. 
ANSWER: the  
Bellini 
s [or Giovanni  
Bellini 
] 
064-09-12-14204 
5. Answer these questions about various types of nuclei, for 10 points each. 
[10] This term refers to organisms such as archaea and bacteria whose cells lack nucleii. 
ANSWER:  
prokaryote 
s 
[10] In mathematics, a nuclear operator is one for which this operation may be unambiguously defined. For 
a square matrix, this is the sum of the diagonal entries and remains the same for all representation of a 
given matrix. 
ANSWER: the  
trace 
 (prompt on  ) 
tr 
[10] In this approximation, the wavefunction of a molecule is found by first finding the electronic 
wavefunction given a stationary nucleus, then using the electron energy thus found in the molecular 
Hamiltonian with the nuclear position as a parameter. It works well because electrons are very light 
compared with atomic nuclei. 
ANSWER: the  
Born-Oppenheimer 
 approximation (accept  
Oppenheimer-Born 
 approximation; prompt 
on  
BO 
 approximation) 
064-09-12-14205 
6. This poet described a worker who stands \"under a spreading chestnut tree\" in \"The Village Blacksmith.\" 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poet of \"The Wreck of the Hesperus,\" who used the meter of the  
Kalevala 
 to write  
The Song 
of Hiawatha 
. 
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth  
Longfellow 
[10] This Longfellow poem proclaims \"Lives of great men all remind us / We can make our lives sublime / 
And, departing, leave behind us / Footprints on the sands of time.\" It begins with its speaker insisting \"Tell 
me not, in mournful numbers / Life is but an empty dream!\" 
ANSWER: \"A  
Psalm of Life 
\" 
[10] Longfellow used dactylic hexameter to write this poem about a colonial love triangle. Its title character 
sends John Alden to give a marriage proposal to Priscilla Mullins, who replies \"Why don't you speak for 
yourself, John?\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Courtship of Miles Standish 
\" 
004-09-12-14206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  8 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. Answer some questions about the urban geography of the thrilling state of North Dakota. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] This is North Dakota’s capital. It contains the University of Mary and the excitingly named North 
Dakota Governor’s Residence. 
ANSWER:  
Bismarck 
[10] The University of North Dakota is located in this other major North Dakota city, which was devastated 
by the 1997 flooding of the Red River of the North. 
ANSWER:  
Grand Forks 
[10] This southeastern city was picked as the original capital of North Dakota, but disgruntled Bismarck 
citizens stole the state records and held them hostage until it became the capital. More importantly, this city 
has the world’s largest statue of a buffalo and was named after its founder’s hometown in Virginia. 
ANSWER:  
Jamestown 
052-09-12-14207 
8. Theodore Honey finds himself aboard an airplane that he and he alone knows is likely to crash in this 
man's novel  
No Highway 
, which eerily predicted the de Havilland Comet crashes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Australian author, an aeronautical engineer whose novels include  
Round the Bend 
 and  
A 
Town Like Alice 
. 
ANSWER: Nevil  
Shute 
 [or Nevil Shute  
Norway 
] 
[10] Nevil Shute may be best known for this novel about Dwight Towers, a submarine captain whose crew 
consists of the last survivors born in the northern hemisphere. 
ANSWER:  
On the Beach 
[10]  
On the Beach 
 is one of many twentieth century post-apocalyptic novels along with this author's book  
Oryx and Crake 
. She wrote about Christian fundamentalists who take over the United States in  
The 
Handmaid's Tale 
. 
ANSWER: Margaret  
Atwood 
003-09-12-14208 
9. Henry Kissinger's doctoral dissertation studied the machinations of this figure and Castlereagh. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this Austrian diplomat, who chaired the Congress of Vienna and orchestrated the Concert of 
Europe. 
ANSWER: Klemens von  
Metternich 
[10] Metternich tendered his resignation to Emperor Ferdinand I, who himself resigned a few days later to 
be succeeded by this Emperor, who ruled Austria-Hungary until the first years of the First World War. 
ANSWER:  
Franz Joseph I 
 [or  
Ferenc József I 
; or  
Francis Joseph I 
; prompt on  
Franz Josef 
] 
[10] One of they key successes of Metternich and the Congress of Vienna was the creation of the German 
Confederation, which replaced this Confederation formed by Napoleon. It included such kingdoms as 
Bavaria and Westphalia. 
ANSWER: Confederation of the  
Rhine 
059-09-12-14209 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  9 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. One holder of this position refused to speak out against a massacre of 200,000 Timorese by the 
Indonesian government. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this US position held variously by Daniel Moynihan, Madeleine Albright, John Bolton, and 
Susan Rice. 
ANSWER: United States  
Ambassador to the United Nations 
 [or  
UN Ambassador 
; accept variants that 
convey the same information] 
[10] This first American Ambassador to the UN was instrumental to founding the organization. He 
succeeded Cordell Hull as Secretary of the State and headed the Lend-Lease program. 
ANSWER: Edward Reilly  
Stettinius 
, Jr. 
[10] This UN Ambassador waited until “hell froze over” for Zorin’s reply about the status of nuclear 
missiles in Cuba. He lost to Dwight Eisenhower twice for the presidency. 
ANSWER: Adlai Ewing  
Stevenson 
 II 
020-09-12-14210 
11. This opera is often paired on a double bill with Mascgani's  
Cavalleria Rusticana 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Leoncavallo opera in which the clown Canio kills his unrequited love Nedda and her lover 
Silvio during a commedia dell’arte performance. 
ANSWER:  
I  Pagliacci 
 [or  
The Traveling _Players 
] 
[10] The role of Nedda is performed by this female singing voice, which has the highest human vocal 
range. Beverly Sills, Joan Sutherland, and Maria Callas sang in this voice. 
ANSWER:  
soprano 
[10] After discovering Nedda's infidelity, Canio sings this sad aria, in which he prepares himself to go 
onstage and perform. Its title is Italian for \"Put on the costume.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Vesti la guibba 
\" 
030-09-12-14211 
12. In the late nineteenth century, missionaries successfully pressured the U.S. and Canadian governments 
into banning this practice. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Native American ceremony, in which hosts received social status in proportion to how 
much food and gifts they shared with their communities. 
ANSWER:  
potlatch 
[10] The anthropological studies of the potlatch in this tribe led Ruth Benedict to call it \"Dionysian,\" in 
contrast to the Zuni and Dobu, in  
Patterns of Culture 
. 
ANSWER:  
Kwakiutl 
 [or  
Kwakwaka'wakw 
] 
[10] Benedict studied under this longtime professor at Columbia, who studied the Kwakiutl and attacked 
scientific racism in  
The Mind of Primitive Man 
. 
ANSWER: Franz  
Boas 
030-09-12-14212 
13. He based his play  
The Dog in the Manger 
 on one of Aesop’s fables. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Golden Age predecessor of Pedro Calderón de la Barca who wrote over fifteen hundred 
plays. 
ANSWER: Felix  
Lope de Vega 
 y Carpio 
[10] The Golden Age playwright Tirso de Molina originated this character in his play  
The Trickster of 
Seville and the Stone Guest 
. He is the subject of a satirical Byron poem and Pushkin's  
The Stone Guest 
. 
ANSWER:  
Don Juan 
[10] This Spanish poet wrote in the culteranismo style, in opposition to the style of his rival Francisco de 
Quevedo. This author of  
Las Soledades 
 would go on to inspire the Generation of ’27. 
ANSWER: Luis de  
Gongora 
 y Argote 
015-09-12-14213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  10 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. This meeting saw a dramatic argument between Josef Frings and Alfredo Ottaviani. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ecumenical council of the Catholic Church held between 1962 and 1965, which had such 
goals as to renew the church, restore Christian unity, and start a dialogue with the modern, contemporary 
world. 
ANSWER:  
Second Vatican 
 Council [accept  
Vatican II 
] 
[10] One man in attendance at Vatican II was Bishop Albino Luciani, who would later become pope under 
this name. This pope would reign a mere 33 days in 1978 and conspiracy theorists suspect Mafia 
involvement in his death. 
ANSWER: Pope  
John Paul I 
 [prompt on  
John Paul 
] 
[10] One crucial declaration passed at Vatican II was  
Nostra Aetate 
, which was originally titled \"Decree 
on\" these people. Important members of this group who converted to Catholicism include Teresia 
Benedicta and Jean-Marie Lustiger, and they were the subject of John Paul II's document  
We Remember 
. 
ANSWER:  
Jew 
s 
052-09-12-14214 
15. The Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation extends this equation to multiple ions. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this equation that calculates the electric potential of a cell. 
ANSWER:  
Nernst 
 equation 
[10] To derive the Nernst equation, one must use these factors that produce the relative probability of 
finding a state   in a system at thermodynamic equilibrium at some temperature. 
i 
ANSWER:  
Boltzmann 
 factors 
[10] The Nernst equation can be expressed using the relationship between Gibbs free energy and this 
quantity, which increases in a closed system according to the Second Law of Thermodynamics. 
ANSWER:  
entropy 
032-09-12-14215 
16. The protagonist of this play begins to have misgivings after the Latin words \"Homo fuge\" appear 
branded on his arm. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Elizabethan play whose title character boxes the ears of the pope before going to the court 
of Charles V, summoning the spirit of Alexander the Great, and causing antlers to sprout from Benvolio's 
head. 
ANSWER:  
Doctor Faustus 
[10] In this play, the slave Ithamore and the title character poison Abigail and other nuns. Its title character 
is scalded to death after ironically falling into his boiling cauldron. 
ANSWER:  
The  Jew of Malta 
[10] Both  
Doctor Faustus 
 and  
The Jew of Malta 
 were written by this English author, who also wrote the 
poem “The Passionate Shepherd to his Love.” 
ANSWER: Christopher  
Marlowe 
020-09-12-14216 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  11 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. The exchange of these particles governs the characteristic interactions between quarks. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name these standard model particles that therefore mediate the strong force. 
ANSWER:  
gluon 
s 
[10] Gluons are unique among mediators in that they carry the six types of this quantity, the formal charge 
of the interaction they mediate. The gauge theory corresponding to this quantity is QCD [read as QCD]. 
ANSWER:  
color 
 charge 
[10] In part because gluons carry color charge, quarks can move relatively freely if they are close together. 
That fact is this property of QCD, an aspect of quark confinement. 
ANSWER:  
asymptotic freedom 
023-09-12-14217 
18. During an 1853 outbreak of this disease in London, the prevailing theory that it was caused by noxious 
gases emanating from piles of manure was largely debunked. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this intestinal disease caused by a bacterium of genus Vibrio. Its severe form can result in 
massive diarrhea, rapid dehydration, shock, and eventually death. 
ANSWER:  
cholera 
[10] This epidemiologist, already known as an anesthesiologist for his pioneering use of ether and 
chloroform, localized the source of the epidemic to the Broad Street Well. 
ANSWER: John  
Snow 
[10] Though Filippo Pacini had isolated the bacterium years earlier, this German bacteriologist and 
namesake of a series of postulates 1884 rediscovered Vibrio cholerae, and linked it to cholera, eventually 
convincing other scientists that the germ theory of cholera is correct. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Koch 
003-09-12-14218 
19. This philosopher derided calculus in his  
The Analyst 
. For 10 poitns each: 
[10] Name this idealist philosopher who wrote  
A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge 
. 
ANSWER: George  
Berkeley 
[10] Berkeley's idealism centered on the dictum that \"to be\" is to be  
this 
. The fact that God does this action 
means that everything in the world exists. 
ANSWER:  
perceive 
d [accept all word forms; prompt on close equivalents like to be  
thought 
 about; accept 
to be is to be perceived 
; or  
esse es percipi 
] 
[10] In this book, Berkeley presented the \"Master Argument\" claiming that objects cannot exist outside of 
the mind. Its second title character advocates Berkeley's idealist views. 
ANSWER:  
Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous 
022-09-12-14219 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  12 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. This composer's fear of the ninth symphony curse led him not to label  
The Song of the Earth 
 as his 
ninth symphony. 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Austrian composer of the song cycle  
Kindentotenlieder 
, the  
Resurrection 
 symphony, and 
the  
Symphony of a Thousand 
. 
ANSWER: Gustav  
Mahler 
[10] Mahler's second, third, and fourth symphonies frequently quote from this collection of German folk 
poetry edited by Achim von Arnim and Clemens Brentano. Mahler wrote many lieder based on this 
collection, including \"Revelge\" and \"Where the Beautiful Trumpets are Blowing.\" 
ANSWER:  
Des  Knaben Wunderhorn 
 [or  
The  Youth's Magic Horn 
] 
[10] The musical curse of the ninth supposedly zinged this Romantic Austrian composer, who died before 
he could complete his ninth symphony. His completed symphonies include his second, called the  
Symphony 
of Pauses 
, and his third, dedicated to Richard Wagner. 
ANSWER: Anton  
Bruckner 
052-09-12-14220 
21. This man created the Special Studies Project headed by Henry Kissinger. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this governor of New York who served as Gerald Ford's vice president. 
ANSWER: Nelson Aldrich  
Rockefeller 
[10] Rockefeller was governor of New York during this event, during which inmates took a guard hostage 
and requested better living conditions. It ended with twenty-nine inmates and ten hostages dead. 
ANSWER:  
Attica 
 Prison Riots 
[10] Nelson Rockefeller lost the 1964 Republican primary to this radical, against whom the Daisy Girl ads 
were targeted by Lyndon Johnson's campaign. 
ANSWER: Barry Morris  
Goldwater 
022-09-12-14221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 14     Page  13 of 13 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
