VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 6 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Glycoprotein 120 is exposed on the surface of the envelop of the virus that causes this disease. A 
common tumor found in patients infected with the virus that causes this disease is Kaposi's Sarcoma. This 
disease is caused by a retrovirus that destroys CD4 plus T-cells. For 10 points, name this autoimmune 
deficiency disease caused by HIV. 
ANSWER:  
AIDS 
 [or  
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome 
 prompt on \"HIV\"] 
084-10-18-06101 
2. While volunteering for Barry Goldwater in Arizona, this man urged the enforcement of \"literacy test\" 
laws that prevented African-Americans from voting. Watergate figure John Dean wrote a book about how 
this man's appointment by Richard Nixon to replace Hugo Black \"redefined the Supreme Court.\" Fourteen 
years after this lawyer joined the bench, the retirement of Warren Burger caused Ronald Reagan to elevate 
him to Chief Justice. For 10 points, name this jurist who served in that post from 1986 until his 2005 death. 
ANSWER: William Hubbs  
Rehnquist 
019-10-18-06102 
3. This word is an acronym for a Sun file format used to package Java applications. This word also titles an 
album which has songs like \"New Year's Day\" and \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" by U2. An Edwin Starr song 
wonders what this is good for to which the refrain offers \"Absolutely nothin!\" Also the name of a card 
game involving a standard deck in which equal face value cards invite the titular action, for 10 points, name 
this word coupled with peace in a Tolstoy novel. 
ANSWER:  
War 
084-10-18-06103 
4. The original planks in this program were passed in the \"Hundred Days,\" leading to a \"Second\" one two 
years later. That one included a legal mandate for collective bargaining in the Wagner Act, as well as the 
appointment of Harry Hopkins to head the Works Progress Administration. Its original bank reforms 
created the FDIC and SEC, as well as work-generating projects such as the Tennessee Valley Authority. 
For 10 points, identify this program, which formed the campaign platform and domestic policy of Franklin 
Roosevelt's administration. 
ANSWER:  
New Deal 
019-10-18-06104 
5. This author published the novella  
The Monster 
, as well as a book about the brothers Jimmie and 
Tommie, who are related to the titular \"girl of the streets,\" Maggie. The most famous novel by this man 
sees the death of Jim Conklin, and features characters as \"Loud Soldier,\" \"Tall Soldier,\" and \"Young 
Soldier,\" the last of whom is the protagonist, Henry Fleming. Henry survives a charge against a 
Confederate line in the most famous novel of, for 10 points, what American author of  
The Red Badge of 
Courage? 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Crane 
081-10-18-06105 
6. This man remains the only MLB player ever to hit the warehouse behind the right field wall at Oriole 
Park, which he did during the 1993 Home Run Derby. This winner of a Gold Glove every year from 1990 
to 1999 was the first pick of the 1987 draft by a team for whom he played the first decade of his career and 
to whom he returned last year before his retirement this year. For 10 points, name this son of a former Reds 
player who ended fifth on the all-time home run list, playing mostly for the Seattle Mariners. 
ANSWER: Ken  
Griffey, Jr. 
 (prompt on Griffey, do not accept Ken Griffey, Sr.) 
081-10-18-06106 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  1 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. In this show, a townhouse left to Katherine Rhumor in the wake of her husband's murder and a 
mysterious four-leaf clover sparks a private investigation. The main character, Will Travers, discovers a 
gun and an encrypted set of numbers in the seat of the motorcycle given to him by his father-in-law, David. 
For 10 points, name this TV show on AMC depicting analysts for the American Policy Institute, whose 
theme of passing a point of no return is suggested by its title, a river famously crossed by Caesar. 
ANSWER:  
Rubicon 
084-10-18-06107 
8. The Joule-Thompson coefficient can be calculated by keeping this quantity constant and taking the 
partial derivative of temperature with respect to pressure. The net change in this quantity for a reaction can 
be calculated using Hess's Law. The change in Gibbs free energy can be calculated by subtracting the 
temperature times the change in entropy from the change in this quantity. At constant pressure, a reaction is 
exothermic when the change in this quantity is negative. For 10 points, name this thermodynamic quantity 
that is represented by H. 
ANSWER:  
enthalpy 
 [prompt on   before mentioned] 
H 
001-10-18-06108 
9. In Japanese, this English verb translates as \"furu\" (FOO-roo). In German, it is \"werfen\" (VAIR-fen). In 
French, this word is \"geter\" (je-TAY). In Latin, it is \"iactare\" (yok-TAH-ray). Spanish uses \"tirar\" for this 
verb, which, in English, has a slang meaning of intentionally losing a contest, such as the 1919 World 
Series. For 10 points, give this word, which normally refers to something one can do with a javelin or 
baseball. 
ANSWER: to  
throw 
019-10-18-06109 
10. The immense strain on cyclopropane (SY-clo-PRO-pain) is accounted for by the “banana” type of this 
interaction. A delocalized “sea of electrons” is the defining feature of a type found in metals. Molecular 
orbital theory was developed to fully understand this interaction, which involves the localization of charge 
on one of two participating atoms in an ionic kind. For 10 points, identify this interaction between atoms 
whose “single” and “double” varieties involve covalently sharing electrons. 
ANSWER: chemical  
bond 
s 
020-10-18-06110 
11. This author, who is not Lillian Hellman, published works like  
Little Foxes 
 under the name Christopher 
Crowfield, but did not use a pseudonym for works such as  
Palmetto Leaves 
 and  
The Minister's Wooing 
. 
The sequel to this woman's most famous novel is titled \"A Key\" to its titular building. The beginning of 
that novel sees Arthur and Emily Shelby sell Eliza's son, as well as the titular character. Famous for a novel 
that features the evil Simon Legree, for 10 points, who is this American author of  
Uncle Tom's Cabin 
? 
ANSWER: Harriet Beecher  
Stowe 
081-10-18-06111 
12. In 1982, the longtime head of this organization ascended to national leadership as \"general secretary.\" 
Predecessors of this organization included the Cheka, which was led by Feliks Dzerzhinsky (jur-ZIN-ski), 
the OGPU, which carried out the \"liquidation of the kulaks,\" and the NKVD, which orchestrated \"purge 
trials\" and was led by Lavrenty Beria (lahv-REN-tee BEH-ree-uh). For 10 points, identify this organization 
which spied on Western countries and suppressed internal dissent as the chief security apparatus of the 
Soviet Union. 
ANSWER:  
KGB 
 [or  
Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti 
; or  
Committee for State Security 
] 
019-10-18-06112 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  2 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. One policy pursued at one point in the history of this country was the New Course. The New Economic 
System in this country was replaced by a policy abbreviated as the ESS, which was instituted under Walter 
Ulbricht. One car produced in this country was the Trabant. This country was led for nearly twenty years 
by Erich Honecker, who had earlier been in charge of the building of a barrier in this country's capital. For 
10 points, name this no longer existent, socialist country whose capital was divided in 1961 by the creation 
of the Berlin Wall. 
ANSWER:  
East Germany 
 [or  
German Democratic Republic 
; or  
GDR 
; or  
Ostdeutschland 
; or  
Deutsche 
Demokratische Republik 
; or  
DDR 
] 
081-10-18-06113 
14. This author wrote a short story in which Dr. Rabin, the head of the title mental facility, dies of a stroke 
after being institutionalized himself. This author of \"Ward No. 6\" wrote a play in which a man nicknamed 
\"Waffles\" accompanies the title character, who angrily rejects Serebryakov's plan to move to Finland. In 
another play by this author, the footman Firs is boarded up inside the title estate, which is sold by Madame 
Ranevskaya. For 10 points, name this Russian playwright who wrote  
Uncle Vanya 
 and  
The Cherry Orchard 
. 
ANSWER: Anton Pavlovich  
Chekhov 
026-10-18-06114 
15. One part of this essay describes a teenage girl who was crucified for trying to poison the emperor of 
Formosa, and compares that victim to people who wear “foreign fineries which they never will pay for.” It 
predicts such advantages as generating \"eight sterlings per annum\" for the \"poorer tenants\" and \"lessening 
the number of papists,\" while suggesting that the product in question can be “seasoned with a little pepper 
or salt.” For 10 points, identify this pamphlet by Jonathan Swift, which satirically suggests raising Irish 
children as food. 
ANSWER:  
A  Modest Proposal  For Preventing The Children of Poor People in Ireland From Being 
Aburden to Their Parents or Country, and For Making Them Beneficial to The Public 
019-10-18-06115 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  3 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 6 
Directed Round 
1A.  What highest waterfall in the world is located in Venezuela? 
ANSWER:  
Angel 
 Falls 
1B.  
Discourse on Method 
 is a work by what French philosopher, who famously said \"I think, therefore, I 
am?\" 
ANSWER: Rene  
Descartes 
 [or Renatus  
Cartesius 
] 
2A.  What simple sorting algorithm compares two adjacent entries and swaps them if they are in the wrong 
order? 
ANSWER:  
bubble 
 sort 
2B.  What U.S. President from Texas enacted the \"Great Society\" and \"War on Poverty\" after succeeding to 
that role following the assassination of John F. Kennedy? 
ANSWER:  yndon Baines  
L Johnson 
 [or  
LBJ 
] 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. If a jaguar catches exactly one antelope from a herd of 4 
brown and 26 yellow antelopes, what is the probability that the antelope is brown? 
ANSWER:  
2/15 
 [or  
2:15 
] 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is 20! divided by 18!? 
ANSWER:  
380 
4A.  What literary term refers to the repetition of initial consonant sounds? 
ANSWER:  
alliteration 
4B.  The Intracoastal Waterway runs through what marshlands and swamp of southeast Virginia, which 
was explored by William Byrd and George Washington and contains Lake Drummond? 
ANSWER:  
Great Dismal Swamp 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the diagonal of a rectangle with sides 8 and 4? 
ANSWER:  
squareroot of 80 
 [or  
4 squareroot of 5 
] 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. How many 2 foot by 2 foot squares would fit in an 18 foot by 
18 foot region? 
ANSWER:  
81 
6A.  What political figure is set to host a CNN talk show with Kathleen Parker despite having resigned 
from the New York Governorship in a prostitution scandal? 
ANSWER: Eliot Laurence  
Spitzer 
6B.  Which French author wrote  
Lost Illusions 
 and  
Pere Goriot 
 as part of his  
Human Comedy 
? 
ANSWER: Honore de  
Balzac 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the volume of a sphere with radius 4? State your 
answer in terms of pi. 
ANSWER:  
256/3 pi 
 [or  
85 and 1/3 pi 
] 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the interquartile range of the set of numbers {2, 7, 3, 
1, 9, 8, 10}? 
ANSWER:  
7 
8A.  Name the Aztec god who had a twin brother named Xolotl (zoh-LAH-tol), gave maize to humans, and 
is usually depicted as a “feathered serpent.” 
ANSWER:  
Quetzalcoatl 
 (KWET-zal-coh-AH-tol) 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  4 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8B.  What nation’s August 2010 elections saw Tony Abbot lose to the incumbent Prime Minister Julia 
Gillard? 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Australia 
9A. This \"father of modern science\" made used his improved telescope to discover four moons of Jupiter 
that are now collectively named for him. 
ANSWER:  
Galileo 
 Galilei 
9B.  This british band fronted by Matthew Bellamy wrote \"Neutron Star Collision (Love is Forever)\" for 
the  
Twilight 
 movies, and included \"Uprising\" on their 2009 album  
The Resistance 
. 
ANSWER:  
Muse 
10A.  The twentieth-century Italian artist Giorgio Morandi excelled in painting this type of work, which 
depicts everyday life through portrayal of inanimate objects. 
ANSWER:  
still-life 
10B.  What form of energy is equal to one-half the mass times the square of the velocity? 
ANSWER:  
kinetic 
 energy 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  5 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 6 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. In the 1930’s, this man signed an agreement with Viceroy Lord Irwin. He renamed the lowly dalit class 
the \"children of god.\" Earlier in his career, this man worked as a lawyer fighting racism in British-ruled 
South Africa. Time magazine reporter Margaret Bourke-White showed this man working at his spinning 
wheel. In 1930, he led a march to protest an unpopular British tax on salt. For 10 points, name this man 
known for his non-violent policy of satyagraha who led the movement for Indian independence. 
ANSWER: Mahatma  
Gandhi 
 [or Mohandas Karamchand  
Gandhi 
] 
064-10-18-06117 
2. This shape is the special case of a hypotrochoid where the radius of the small circle is half the radius of 
the large circle. One of these shapes has an eccentricity of between zero and one, and has two foci, which 
lie on its major axis. Kepler's first law of planetary motion states that planetary orbits are in this shape. For 
10 points, name this oval-shaped conic section. 
ANSWER:  
ellipse 
 [do not accept \"oval\"] 
024-10-18-06118 
3. The opening lines of Lewis Carroll's \"Jabberwocky\" are composed of this metrical foot, as are most of 
Shakespeare's sonnets. Reversing the patterns of stresses in this metrical foot results in a trochee. This is the 
most common metrical foot used in blank verse. For 10 points, name this metrical foot comprised of an 
unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable, five of which make up a namesake \"pentameter.\" 
ANSWER:  
iamb 
s [or  
iambus 
; or  
iambic 
 verse; do not accept \"iambic pentameter\" or \"blank verse\"; 
prompt on metrical  
foot 
 before \"metrical\"] 
026-10-18-06119 
4. One genus of these organisms is  
Aspergillus. 
 One type of these organisms called \"fairy rings\" possess 
cells with more than one nucleus, called coenocytes, while these organisms more typically divided by septa 
into different sections of cells called hyphae. These hyphae in turn create a connected network called a 
mycelium. Often reproducing through spore dispersal are, for 10 points, what kingdom of organisms 
exemplified by mushrooms? 
ANSWER:  
fungi 
 or  
fungus 
081-10-18-06120 
5. In one of this author's works, the title object allows for the affair of Charlotte and Prince Amerigo to be 
discovered by Maggie Verver. That novel is  
The Golden Bowl 
. Catherine Sloper is the main character of his 
Washington Square 
, and Gilbert Osmond marries Isabel Archer in another novel by this author. He also 
wrote a \"ghost story\" narrated by the Miles and Flora's governess. For 10 points, name this author of  
The 
Portrait of a Lady 
 and  
The Turn of the Screw 
. 
ANSWER: Henry  
James 
001-10-18-06121 
6. This man wrote a novel in which Harry Morgan uses his boat to smuggle liquor and illegal immigrants,  
To Have and Have Not 
. In one of his novels, Pablo is the husband of Pilar, the leader of a guerilla group 
that Robert Jordan is working with. That novel takes place during the Spanish Civil War. Another novel by 
this author is narrated by Jake Barnes, an American expatriate in Paris. He also wrote about the struggles of 
the fisherman Santiago. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Sun Also Rises 
 and  
The Old Man and the 
Sea 
. 
ANSWER: Ernest Miller  
Hemingway 
001-10-18-06122 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  6 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. On this instrument, one can play notes separated by a twelfth by hitting the register key. This instrument 
is typically assembled from five parts, including the barrel and the bell. Aaron Copland wrote a concerto 
for this instrument for Benny Goodman, and this instrument plays the opening solo glissando in George 
Gershwin’s  
Rhapsody in Blue 
. For 10 points, name this woodwind staple of concert bands, a single reed 
instrument with a pitch lower than the flute. 
ANSWER: (B-flat)  
clarinet 
003-10-18-06123 
8. In one of this man's films, four eras depict how the title concept caused strife in Babylon, the death of 
Jesus, the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre, and decadence in modern America. That film,  
Intolerance 
, was 
a response to criticism of an earlier film directed by this man in which Silas Lynch's attempt to force Elsie 
Stoneman to marry him is thwarted by a heroically-portrayed member of the Ku Klux Klan. For 10 points, 
name this American director of  
Birth of a Nation 
. 
ANSWER: (D)avid (W)ark  
Griffith 
030-10-18-06124 
9. During this period of time, non-decomposed organic matter formed black shale and this period of time 
began after the \"Great Dying\" which occurred at the end of the Permian. The end of this geologic Era is 
marked by the K-T extinction event, which according to the Alvarez hypothesis was caused by a large 
asteroid. For 10 points, name this geologic era consisting of the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous periods 
also known as the age of the dinosaurs. 
ANSWER:  
Mesozoic 
 Era [accept  
Triassic period 
 until \"K-T\" is spoken] 
084-10-18-06125 
10. She appears in the Old Testament books of First and Second Kings as the wife of King Ahab of Israel 
and an ardent worshiper of Baal. She acquired Naboth's vineyard for her husband by plotting to have 
Naboth executed, an act which prompted the prophet Elijah to predict that dogs would eat her corpse. She 
was killed when her servants pushed her from a window as she stood awaiting an invading army. Name this 
Biblical figure whose name became synonymous with evil and an insult to women. 
ANSWER:  
Jezebel 
045-10-18-06126 
11. This author attached a story about a man who buys a pair of ruby slippers at auction to his work of film 
criticism, which opens “When I first saw  
The Wizard of Oz 
 it made a writer of me.” This author of novels 
such as  
Fury 
 and  
Shame 
 also wrote about the switched-at-birth Saleem and Shiva, part of a generation of 
children born at the moment of India’s independence. For 10 points, name this author of  
Midnight’s 
Children, 
 who was targeted for assassination after his controversial  
The Satanic Verses. 
ANSWER: Ahmed Salman  
Rushdie 
019-10-18-06127 
12. A quantum analog of one formula named for this man is named for Ehrenfest (AIR-en-fest). 
Interference patterns due to an air film between a lens and a glass are called this man's \"rings.\" Another law 
named for this man is also called the law of inertia, while a third law is often summarized as saying that for 
every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. For 10 points, name this British physicist whose three 
laws of motion include the equation F equals m a. 
ANSWER: Sir Isaac  
Newton 
081-10-18-06128 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  7 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. This country lost much of its territory in the Treaty of Trianon. Members of this country's Arpad 
dynasty include Stephen I, its first king. During this nation's communist period, it was led by János Kádár 
(YA-nos KA-dar). This country saw reforms that led to \"Goulash Communism.\" Through the Ausgleich 
(OWS-glaik) of 1867, this country spent the later half of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries as part 
of a dual monarchy with Austria. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Budapest. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Hungary 
 [or  
Magyar 
orszag; or  
Magyar 
 Koztarsasag] 
001-10-18-06129 
14. At one point, this god had to kill someone who was protected from death at day and night, and both 
inside and outside of houses, and did so by killing that enemy on a threshold at twilight. He performed that 
feat in the form of Narasimha (NAH-rah-SIM-ha), a lion. This god also takes forms such as the fish Matsya 
(MOTS-yah) and the heroes Rama and Krishna, which are some of his ten avatars. For 10 points, identify 
this Hindu “preserver” god, who forms the Trimurti (treh-MORE-tee) with the creator Brahma and 
destroyer Shiva. 
ANSWER:  
Vishnu 
019-10-18-06130 
15. This President ran on a campaign that promoted his simplicity as a man who knew about “log cabins 
and hard cider.” This man’s popular nickname came from a battle he won against Tenskwatawa, whose 
brother Tecumseh was also defeated by this man at the Battle of the Thames. This President nicknamed 
Tippecanoe defeated Martin Van Buren in the election of 1840. This man then gave a two-hour-long 
inaugural address on a cold and rainy day, causing him to catch a cold. For 10 points, name this ninth 
President who died after a month in office. 
ANSWER:  illiam Henry  
W Harrison 
 [prompt on  
Harrison 
] 
083-10-18-06131 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  8 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 6 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Before opposing the American independence activists in  
Taxation No Tyranny, 
 this author used 
Juvenalian satire as a model for his poem \"The Vanity of Human Wishes.\" He was the first to include real 
literary quotations as usage examples, in his monumental  
Dictionary of the English Language. 
 He may be 
best-known not as an author but as a subject of a work based on two decades of friendship with a Scottish 
attorney. For 10 points, name this eighteenth-century literary figure, the subject of a noted biography by 
James Boswell. 
ANSWER: Samuel  
Johnson 
019-10-18-06132 
2. One interpretation of this novel casts it as an allegory for the same boarding-school system that the 
author attacked directly in the essay “Such, Such Were the Joys.” Its characters include Syme, who is 
employed in writing the eleventh edition of a dictionary that includes words such as “doubleplusungood” 
and “crimethink.” O’Brien is revealed as the leader of the “Brotherhood,” a fake organization said to 
oppose Oceania’s government, headed by Big Brother. For 10 points, name this novel about an oppressive 
regime, written by George Orwell. 
ANSWER:  
Nineteen Eighty-Four 
019-10-18-06133 
3. These structures may be governed by the theory of accelerating moment release, which would facilitate 
efforts to predict their movement. You can measure the separation caused by these structures in terms of 
both heave and throw. These structures are composed of both a hangingwall and a footwall. These 
geological features come in dip-slip and strike-slip types. For 10 points, name these displacement-causing 
fractures in rock, an example of which is the San Andreas one in California. 
ANSWER:  
fault 
s [or  
fault 
 lines] 
026-10-18-06134 
4. In 1964, Pope Paul VI returned this figure's supposed head to Patrai as a symbol of goodwill towards 
Greek Christians. In the Gospel of John, he is the first Apostle named, and the Konigsberg Chronicle states 
that this man erected a cross in Kiev and proclaimed that it would be a great city. Along with his brother 
Peter, this man was called to be a fisher of men, and he is the patron saint of Russia. For 10 points, name 
this figure who was supposedly crucified on the X-shaped cross that bears his name and is depicted on the 
flag of Scotland. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Andrew 
030-10-18-06135 
5. This force is theorized to be a result of both a scalar and a tensor field in the Brans-Dicke (BRANS 
DICK-ee) theory. This force leads to a result called the weak equivalence principle. Like the 
electromagnetic force, it is classically represented by an inverse-square law. Its effects are said to be caused 
by spacetime curvature in the theory of general relativity. For 10 points, name this force whose universal 
constant is labeled big-G. 
ANSWER:  
gravity 
 [or  
gravitation 
; or  
gravitational 
 force] 
026-10-18-06136 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 6     Page  9 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
