VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 2 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This author wrote a story in which a machine is supposed to inscribe the words \"Be Just\" on the Officer, 
who normally operates the machine to execute prisoners. Max Brod published this man's writings 
posthumously, which went against this author's instructions to burn them. This author of \"In the Penal 
Colony\" also wrote a story in which a father throws an apple that lodges into the back of his bug-like son. 
For 10 points, name this German-language author who created Gregor Samsa in his story  
The 
Metamorphosis. 
ANSWER: Franz  
Kafka 
023-13-96-02101 
2. Spacecraft specifically investigating these phenomena include Hinode (HE-node-ay), Yohkoh, and 
RHESSI (RESS-ee). Nitrates and beryllium-10 persist in Greenland from an 1859 example of these 
phenomena called the Carrington event. They are classified as A, B, C, M, X, or Z depending on the peak 
flux. These events are similar to coronal mass ejections, and they can trigger geomagnetic storms with the 
potential to knock out power. For 10 points, name these events in which a large amount of energy enters the 
Earth's ionosphere, after being discharged from the Sun. 
ANSWER:  
solar flare 
s [or  
coronal mass ejections 
 until it is read; or  
CME 
 until \"coronal mass ejections\" 
is read; or  
geomagnetic storm 
s until it is read; prompt on  
flare 
s] 
020-13-96-02102 
3. This politician's divorce and subsequent marriage to Margaretta \"Happy\" Murphy cost him votes in the 
1964 Republican primaries. Opponents castigated this governor for refusing to talk to opponents at the 
1971 Attica Prison riot. As Vice-President, he was dropped from the ticket in favor of the more 
conservative Senator Bob Dole. Under the 25th Amendment, he was named Vice-President by President 
Gerald Ford. For 10 points, name this Governor of New York during all of the 1960s, a member of the 
family who founded Standard Oil. 
ANSWER: Nelson Aldrich  
Rockefeller 
052-13-96-02103 
4. In a device invented by Gaston Plante, this compound reacts to oxidize lead and reduce lead oxide. Since 
this compound is capable of dehydrating sugars, when mixed with sucrose, it forms pure black carbon. A 
superacid must have a lower pKa than this compound. This compound is formed industrially using a 
vanadium compound in the contact process. Of the common strong acids, it is the only one which is 
diprotic. For 10 points, name this acid found in car batteries with formula H2 SO4. 
ANSWER:  
sulfuric acid 
 [or  
H2 SO4 
 until it is read] 
190-13-96-02104 
5. This artist painted the interior of a building with a green roof and red walls, inside which a waiter stands 
next to a billiards table. The time this artist spent in Arles led to paintings such as  
The Yellow House. 
 This 
artist painted a landscape dominated by large swirls in the center and a cypress tree on the left, both 
overlooking Saint-Remy. This artist of  
The Night Cafe 
 depicted himself with a bandaged ear in his late 
self-portraits. For 10 points, name this post-Impressionist artist of  
Starry Night. 
ANSWER: Vincent  
van Gogh 
140-13-96-02105 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  1 of 10 
6. Thales's (THAY-leez's) theorem describes this shape inscribed in a circle, with one side as a diameter to 
the circle. According to the exterior angle theorem, any exterior angle of this shape is greater than any 
remote interior angle. Two of these shapes may not be congruent in the ambiguous case, but they are 
congruent if they have side-angle-side or angle-side-angle equivalence. They can have at most one obtuse 
angle, since their internal angles sum to 180 degrees. For 10 points, name this polygon with three sides. 
ANSWER:  
triangle 
132-13-96-02106 
7. Several members of this party were implicated in scandals during the \"Back to Basics\" campaign. A 
leader of this political party was in power during Black Wednesday, when this party's country was kicked 
out of the Exchange Rate Mechanism. Michael Haseltine challenged another member of this party for 
leadership, eight years after that member of this party ordered an intervention in the Falkland Islands. For 
10 points, name this British political party headed at different times by David Cameron and Margaret 
Thatcher, which opposes the Lib Dems and Labour. 
ANSWER:  
Conservative 
 party [or  
Tories 
] 
048-13-96-02107 
8. The protein Cdc20 is not activated until the start of this stage. The cyclosome is also known as a 
complex that promotes this stage by breaking down securin. This stage occurs due to the removal of tubulin 
monomers from the \"plus\" end of a microtubule by the kinetochore (kin-ET-oh-core). Errors in this phase 
of mitosis can lead to Down's Syndrome and other nondisjunctions. For 10 points, name this stage of 
mitosis in which sister chromatids are segregated to opposite sides of the cell and which occurs between 
metaphase and telophase. 
ANSWER:  
anaphase 
 [prompt on  
mitosis 
 until it is read] 
190-13-96-02108 
9. One of these beings died in St. Thomas, Ontario, supposedly while trying to save his friend, Tom 
Thumb, from being hit by a train, and was stuffed and donated to Tufts University by his owner. One of 
these creatures at Luna Park was electrocuted in 1903, an event infamously caught on film by Thomas 
Edison. Another of these creatures, named Mary, was lynched after killing her abusive trainer at the Sparks 
World Famous circus. For 10 points, name this type of animal exemplified by P.T. Barnum's \"Jumbo,\" 
which grew up in the African bush. 
ANSWER:  
elephant 
052-13-96-02109 
10. This man's son, who was known as \"Castor,\" was probably poisoned by his wife, Livilla. This emperor 
eventually named Macro as the new head of the Praetorian Guard. This father of Drusus was in power 
when such people as Agrippina (ag-rip-EE-nuh) the Elder were purged by his scheming adviser, Sejanus 
(seh-JAH-nus). This emperor was the adoptive father of Germanicus and spent much of his later reign 
\"retiring\" on the island of Capri. During his reign, Jesus Christ was crucified. For 10 points, name this 
second Roman emperor, the stepson and successor of Augustus. 
ANSWER:  
Tiberius 
 Claudius Nero [or  
Tiberius 
 Julius Caesar] 
052-13-96-02110 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  2 of 10 
11. Lido is located off the coast of this city. Napoleon stole the \"Triumphant Quadriga,\" bronze statues of 
four horses, from a basilica in this city. A bridge over the Rio de Palazzo in this city is named because, in 
medieval times, passersby could hear prisoners sighing as they went off to their deaths. Murano is the 
center of this city's famed glassmaking industry. A symbol of this city is the lion, an emblem of St. Mark. 
The Rialto Bridge spans this city's Grand Canal. For 10 points, name this city on the Adriatic Sea in Italy, 
famed for its gondolas. 
ANSWER:  
Venice 
190-13-96-02111 
12. This author wrote a novel in which Herbert Stencil becomes tormented by a passage in his deceased 
father's diary and attempts to search for the title mysterious woman. That novel of his features Benny 
Profane and the Whole Sick Crew. This author created Pierce Inverarity, whose death causes Oedipa Maas 
to descend into paranoia. This man also wrote about a V-2 rocket labeled 00000, which Tyrone Slothrop 
attempts to find. For 10 points, name this American author of  
The Crying of Lot 49 
 and  
Gravity's Rainbow. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Pynchon 
227-13-96-02112 
13. According to one story, this hero performed a katabasis (KAH-tuh-BAH-sis) by being eaten and 
regurgitated by a dragon. In another story, this hero attacked Iolcus (ee-OL-kus) with Peleus after his 
cousins were tricked into boiling his uncle, thinking that it would make him younger. This hero 
successfully yoked two fire-breathing bulls, and he lost a sandal while helping a disguised Hera cross a 
river. For 10 points, name this husband of Medea who led the Argonauts in their quest for the Golden 
Fleece. 
ANSWER:  
Jason 
227-13-96-02113 
14. This building is currently part of a historic site with the nearby Petersen House. Major Henry Rathbone 
was stabbed in this building by a knife-wielding assailant. Audience members laughed in this building after 
a line about a \"sockdologizing old man-trap\" was delivered. During a performance of the comedy  
Our 
American Cousin 
 in this building, a man shouted \"Sic semper tyrannis!\" after jumping onto the stage. For 
10 points, name this theater in Washington D.C. where John Wilkes Booth assassinated Abraham Lincoln. 
ANSWER:  
Ford's 
 Theatre 
052-13-96-02114 
15. This author wrote a short story in which a captain agrees to hide Leggatt from the captain of the  
Sephora. 
 This author of \"The Secret Sharer\" also created a narrator who thinks that a Russian man he meets 
looks like a harlequin. A frame narrative for a story by this author takes place aboard the  
Nellie. 
 In that 
story by this author, The phrase \"Exterminate all the brutes!\" is found by Charles Marlow in a report 
written by Kurtz. For 10 points, name this Polish-born author of  
Heart of Darkness. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Conrad 
 [or Jozef Teodor Konrad  
Korzeniowski 
] 
023-13-96-02115 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 2 
Directed Round 
1A.  At what event does Jesus turn water into wine in the Gospel of John? 
ANSWER: the  
Wedding at Cana 
 [or the  
Marriage at Cana 
] 
1B.  What actor directed and starred in both  
The Town 
 and  
Argo 
? 
ANSWER: Ben  
Affleck 
2A.  What Greek letter denotes a change in a quantity as well as identifying functions named for Kronecker 
and Dirac? 
ANSWER:  
delta 
2B.  What mayor of Toronto drew criticism in 2013 when a video showing him smoking crack surfaced? 
ANSWER: Rob  
Ford 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. The side lengths of an isosceles trapezoid are x, 2x, 3x, and 
6. What is the largest possible perimeter of the trapezoid? 
ANSWER:  
42 
3B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the exact solution of the equation 7 + 5e  = 10. [\"seven 
x 
plus five times e to the x equals ten\"] 
ANSWER:  
ln 0.6 
 [or  
ln 3/5 
 or  
ln 3-ln 5 
; or the  
natural log of 3/5 
; or the  
natural log of 0.6 
; or the  
natural 
logarithm of 3/5 
; or the  
natural logarithm of 0.6 
] 
4A.  What law states that an induced current will create a magnetic field opposed to the intial change in 
magnetic flux? 
ANSWER:  
Lenz 
's law 
4B.  What large lake in Siberia is the Earth's oldest freshwater lake and its deepest continental lake? 
ANSWER: Lake  
Baikal 
5A.  What leader singer of Nine Inch Nails wrote film scores for  
The Social Network 
 and  
The Girl with the 
Dragon Tattoo? 
ANSWER: Trent  
Reznor 
5B.  Okonkwo is the protagonist of what Chinua Achebe novel about Umuofia (OOM-woh-FEE-uh)? 
ANSWER:  
Things Fall Apart 
6A.  What Communist revolutionary unseated Fulgencio Batista and led Cuba from 1976 to 2008? 
ANSWER: Fidel  
Castro 
6B.  What American architect built the Imperial Hotel in Japan and created a house called Fallingwater in 
Pennsylvania? 
ANSWER: Frank Lloyd  
Wright 
7A.  What Austrian composer developed the twelve-tone technique and composed the string sextet  
Transfigured Night 
? 
ANSWER: Arnold  
Schoenberg 
7B.  What Scottish mathematician developed logarithms and produced a number of tables with their 
values? 
ANSWER: John  
Napier 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  4 of 10 
8A.  What ancient Greek tragedian wrote  
Oedipus at Colonus 
 and  
Oedipus Rex 
? 
ANSWER:  
Sophocles 
8B.  What instrument was played by Dizzy Gillespie, Miles Davis, and Louis Armstrong? 
ANSWER:  
trumpet 
9A.  What small Ohio town became the center of a heated 2013 trial after football players Trent Mays and 
Ma'lik Richmond were accused of raping a classmate? 
ANSWER:  
Steubenville 
9B.  What English verb is equivalent to the French \"tomber\" and the Italian \"cadere\" (cah-DEE-ree)? 
ANSWER: to  
fall 
10A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A normally distributed sample has a mean of 35 and a 
standard deviation of 6. Using the empirical rule, 95% of the data should lie between which two numbers? 
ANSWER:   and  
23 47 
10B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. An ant, standing 35 feet away from a tree trunk, looks up at 
an angle of 60 degrees and can just see the treetop. How far away is the ant from the top of the tree? 
ANSWER:   feet 
70 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 2 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The symbols I and K are used for a type of these things when it is present in the inner and outer core. 
The two most common surface types of these things are named for Rayleigh and Love. A shadow zone 
results from one type of these things not penetrating the outer core and another type of them being refracted 
by the core-mantle boundary. Those two types are P and S. For 10 points, identify these things whose travel 
time is used to determine an earthquake's hypocenter. 
ANSWER:  
seismic wave 
s 
066-13-96-02117 
2. This region was the subject of a Marjory Stoneman Douglas book which referred to it as the \"river of 
grass,\" and it contains the almost entirely uninhabited Ten Thousand Islands. The Tamiami Trail, 
eventually known as \"Calle (KAI-yay) Ocho,\" runs through it. Over twelve hundred invasive Burmese 
pythons have been removed from this region since 2009. Napoleon Bonaparte Broward proposed draining 
it. This region is fed by the Kissimmee River, which empties directly into Lake Okeechobee. For 10 points, 
name this large tropical wetlands region in southern Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Everglades 
052-13-96-02118 
3. This goddess pulled a handful of hair out of the chest of Brontes after he placed her on his knee. This 
goddess killed the giants Otus and Ephialtes by tricking them into throwing a spear at each other. This 
goddess sent a boar to rampage through Calydon. Actaeon was transformed into a stag after he witnessed 
her bathing in a stream, and Leto gave birth to this goddess on Delos with her brother. For 10 points, name 
this Greco-Roman goddess of the moon and the twin sister of Apollo. 
ANSWER:  
Artemis 
 [or  
Diana 
] 
227-13-96-02119 
4. On UML diagrams, these things are shown to have a \"has a\" relationship with a filled-in diamond. 
According to the book  
Design Patterns 
, a factory method is a common way to create them. In subtype 
polymorphism, one of these things can behave as though it belongs to different types. These things can be 
created by constructor methods. They can borrow attributes and behavior from their superclasses through 
inheritance. For 10 points, name these instances of classes, the namesake of a type of programming 
exemplified by C++ and Java. 
ANSWER:  
object 
s 
190-13-96-02120 
5. This poem's speaker asks a \"mysterious priest\" to \"what green altar...lead'st thou that heifer lowing at the 
skies?\" This poem's first stanza ends with seven consecutive rhetorical questions, including \"What men or 
gods are these?\" This poem's speaker says, \"When old age shall this generation waste, thou shalt remain\" of 
an object he initially addresses as a \"still unravish'd bride of quietness.\" This poem ends with the assertion 
that \"Beauty is truth, truth beauty.\" For 10 points, name this ode by John Keats addressed to a vase. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ode on a Grecian Urn 
\" 
190-13-96-02121 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  6 of 10 
6. This man wrote a four thousand word love letter to the English artist Maria Cosway. He invented a 
revolving book stand that could hold five books at once, and, after the burning of Washington, he offered to 
sell his over six thousand books to the Library of Congress. At a private 1790 dinner, this man agreed to his 
rival's plan of federal assumption of war debts. This politician was accused of fathering children by his 
slave, Sally Hemings, who lived at his plantation, Monticello. For 10 points, name this author of the 
Declaration of Independence. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Jefferson 
052-13-96-02122 
7. A poem by this writer describes a house that uses \"the gambrels of the sky\" for \"an everlasting roof.\" The 
narrator of a poem by this writer heard a \"blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz\" before she \"could not see to 
see.\" This poet also described a carriage ride taken with Immortality and with horses headed \"toward 
eternity.\" For 10 points, name this poet of \"I heard a fly buzz when I died\" and \"Because I could not stop 
for Death,\" which she wrote as a recluse in Amherst, Massachusetts. 
ANSWER: Emily  
Dickinson 
023-13-96-02123 
8. These structures are maintained by CLIP and CLASP proteins. Depending on the point of attachment, 
these structures are divided into astral and polar types. Their formation is inhibited by the anti-cancer drug 
paclitaxel. Kinesin (kin-EY-sin) proteins are used for transport along these structures. A protein subunit of 
these structures localizes to the centrosome and assists in the formation of the mitotic spindle at \"organizing 
centers\". For 10 points, identify these largest components of the cytoskeleton, usually pictured as long, 
hollow rods. 
ANSWER:  
microtubule 
s [prompt on  
mitotic spindle 
 or equivalents] 
234-13-96-02124 
9. This author wrote a novel in which the title character accidentally causes Chicken Little to drown and 
becomes hated by everyone in a neighborhood called the Bottom. In another novel by this author, Stamp 
Paid takes a character across the Ohio River after she escapes from the Sweet Home plantation. That novel 
by this author describes how the mother of Denver killed her baby to save it from going back into slavery. 
For 10 points, name this American author of  
Sula 
 who also created Sethe (SETH-uh) in  
Beloved. 
ANSWER: Toni  
Morrison 
 [or Chloe Anthony  
Wofford 
] 
023-13-96-02125 
10. In diagramming a heat engine on a plot partially named for this value, it is generally shown along the 
y-axis. At a given mass, a gas that follows Gay-Lussac's (GEH LOO-sack's) law will have this value 
directly proportional to the gas's temperature. This value is kept constant for a gas when considering the 
relationship of Charles's Law between temperature and volume, and this value is also kept constant in an 
isobaric process. For 10 points, name this value measured in Pascals and calculated by taking force over 
area. 
ANSWER:  
pressure 
023-13-96-02126 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  7 of 10 
11. The ultimate origin of this word is the 2005 \"Biz Cas Fri 1\" episode of  
Homestar Runner, 
 in which this 
name is applied to Strong Bad. Images described by this word usually depict Kabosu, a rescue adoption 
belonging to kindergarten teacher Atsuko Sato. This entity lends its name to a Bitcoin competitor with a 
hundred-billion-unit mining threshold that was introduced in December 2013. For 10 points, \"much 
popularity, very meme (MEEM), wow\" was achieved by what 2013 Internet fad in which enthusiastic 
phrases float around a picture of a Shiba Inu (SHEE-bah EE-noo)? 
ANSWER:  
doge 
 [or  
Shibe 
 until \"Shiba Inu\" is read; or  
doge 
coin; \"doge\" can be pronounced like the 
\"DOHJ\" of Venice, like a \"dog\", or like a \"doggie,\" all are correct] 
019-13-96-02127 
12. This movement's leaders founded  
The Dial, 
 a periodical edited by Margaret Fuller. Harvard Divinity 
School attacked this movement after its leader discounted the miracles of Jesus in his \"Divinity School 
Address.\" That Unitarian minister from this movement was the author of \"Self-Reliance.\" Hindu 
philosophy inspired a writer from this movement who wrote a book about \"life in the woods\" by the title 
pond. For 10 points, name this early American literary movement represented by Ralph Waldo Emerson 
and Henry David Thoreau. 
ANSWER:  
transcendentalism 
080-13-96-02128 
13. Kenneth Spence worked within this theory, and wrote on \"discrimination learning\" in its framework. 
Edward Tolman developed a \"purposive\" form of this school of thought, which was extensively applied to 
learning by Clark Hull. A psychologist from this school conditioned \"Little Albert\" to fear white rats, and 
another member of this school used operant conditioning to train pigeons to play table tennis. For 10 points, 
name this school to which John Watson and B.F. Skinner belonged, which denies the role of free will in its 
namesake phenomenon. 
ANSWER:  
behaviorism 
 [or  
behaviorist 
 psychology, etc.] 
019-13-96-02129 
14. A battle fought near this city shortened the reign of a native monarch, causing the bestowing of the 
nickname \"The Winter King.\" In this city, Frederick V was crowned a year before losing outside its walls at 
White Mountain to Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II. Protestants in this city said that a pile of manure 
saved two regents and a secretary after they fell from its chancellery tower in 1618. For 10 points, name 
this historical capital of Bohemia, where the Thirty Years's War was sparked by a defenestration. 
ANSWER:  
Prague 
 [or  
Praha 
] 
104-13-96-02130 
15. This molecule is the most common source of the donor group in kinase-mediated transfer reactions. 
Fatty acid oxidation that does not take place in the peroxisome is coupled to the production of this 
molecule. The enzyme that produces this molecule has F sub zero and F sub one regions and is a synthase 
embedded in the mitochondrial membrane. Glycolysis produces two molecules of NADH (N A D H) and 
two molecules of this compound. For 10 points, name this molecule that is the energy currency of the cell. 
ANSWER:  
ATP 
 [or  
adenosine triphosphate 
] 
066-13-96-02131 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regionals 2014 
Round 2 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This man created a character who writes poems about \"the groan of a gravelled grouse\" and a poem on 
Peace that begins with the line, \"When the widgeon westward winging.\" In another story by this creator of 
Reginald, Conradin escapes his strict guardian by worshiping the ferret Sredni Vashtar. The protagonist of 
another story is horrified to see Mr. Stapleton and his friends returning home after a girl told him they had 
died years ago. For 10 points, name this author of \"The Open Window.\" 
ANSWER:  
Saki 
 [or Hector Hugh  
Munro 
] 
121-13-96-02132 
2. At constant temperature, this process occurs in a direction that minimizes chemical potential by 
maximizing entropy. An equation governing this process sets its rate inversely proportional to the square 
root of molar mass. This process is governed by Fick's Laws and Graham's Law. When it occurs through a 
semipermeable membrane, it is called osmosis. For 10 points, name this random movement of particles 
from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration. 
ANSWER:  
diffusion 
 [prompt on  
effusion 
; prompt on  
osmosis 
 until it is read] 
190-13-96-02133 
3. Mikhail Chumakov led a Research Institute focusing on this disease in the Soviet Union. Two of the men 
who studied how to cure this were the scientists H.R. Cox and Hilary Koprowski. In trying to stop this 
disease, Thomas Francis Jr. directed a nationwide field trial that involved nearly two million children. This 
disease was the original focus of the March of Dimes, and it led to many patients being place in \"iron 
lungs.\" This disease had two different vaccines developed in the 1950s. For 10 points, name this disease 
that was rampant before the oral and injected vaccines were created by Albert Sabin and Jonas Salk. 
ANSWER:  
polio 
myelitis [or  
infantile paralysis 
] 
023-13-96-02134 
4. This author wrote a story in which Mrs. Pike recognizes Mr. Petrie as a fugitive rapist from California. 
This author of \"Petrified Man\" also created a character named Sonny, who helps the protagonist after his 
car falls in a ravine. Phoenix Jackson travels to Natchez in order to pick up medicine for her grandson in 
this author's \"A Worn Path,\" and she wrote a story in which Stella-Rondo brings home Shirley T. on 
Independence Day. For 10 points, name this American author of \"Why I Live at the P.O.\" 
ANSWER: Eudora  
Welty 
227-13-96-02135 
5. An outgroup is typically used to root these objects. Like cladograms, these objects are used to visualize 
relationships in the field of systematics. These objects can be used to determine whether a group of 
organisms is monophyletic, paraphyletic, or polyphyletic. Branch points on these objects represent the 
point at which two lineages split from a common ancestor. For 10 points, identify these \"trees\" that show 
the evolutionary relationships between species or other taxons. 
ANSWER:  
phylogenetic tree 
s [or  
evolutionary tree 
s; or  
phylogeny 
; prompt on  
cladogram 
s until it is 
read; prompt on  
tree of life 
; prompt on  
dendrogram 
s; prompt on  
phylogram 
s; prompt on  
chronogram 
s] 
066-13-96-02136 
This is a calculation question. An ordered data set consists of the numbers 3, 8, 15, 20, 21, 35. What is the 
interquartile range of the data? 
ANSWER:  
13 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  9 of 10 
What scientific theory proposes the lithosphere is broken up into large moving units that float on the 
asthenosphere? 
ANSWER:  
plate tectonics 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regionals 2014     2     Page  10 of 10 
