This is page 1 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2015  
Round 1  
First Period, Fifteen Tossups   
Note to all quizmasters: In pronunciation guides for this tournament, the cluster “ey” represents  
the vowel sound in the first syllable of “neighbor” or the words “stay” or “pray.”  
1. Religious factions chiefly based in this city, called the Utraquists (OOT-ruh-kwists) and the  
Taborites (TAH-bore-ites), clashed at the Battle of Lipany (LIP-uh-nee). The Maharal (MAH- 
hah-rall), a resident of this city’s Jewish quarter, legendarily created a clay golem (GOH-lem).  
Jan Hus (YAN HOOS), a resident of this city, was burned at the stake at the Council of  
Constance. In this city, three Catholic ambassadors were saved by a dung heap after being  
attacked by Bohemian nobles. For 10 points, name this city where a “defenestration” occurred.  
ANSWER:  Prague  [or  Praha ]  
2. These organisms have a mutation that prevents them from detecting sweetness. These  
crepuscular (cruh-PUSK-yuh-lur) creatures are the main vector for toxoplasmosis (TOCK-soh- 
plaz-MOH-sis) in humans. A namesake “fever” is transmitted through their scratches. These  
animals conserve angular momentum in a namesake “righting reflex”. Due to X-inactivation,  
normally only the females of these domesticated mammals can express calico coloring. For 10  
points, name these carnivores in the  Felis  (FEE-lis) genus that include the Siamese breed.  
ANSWER: domestic  cats  [or house  cats ; or obvious equivalents]  
3. A character on this television show appears in the much-maligned film  The Rural Juror . This  
show aired live episodes in 2010 and 2012. A character on this show begins an affair with his  
mother-in-law after his wife is kidnapped in North Korea. That character on this show hires  
Tracy Jordan to join the cast of  TGS  after being named Vice President of East Coast Television,  
and is played by Alec Baldwin. For 10 points, name this television series about a fictional sketch  
comedy show, starring Tina Fey as the show’s head writer, Liz Lemon.  
ANSWER:  30 Rock   
4. A player of this instrument composed a big band medley derived from  West Side Story.  Kenny  
Clarke earned the nickname “klook” for his unique style of playing this instrument. Buddy Rich  
often fought “battles” over this instrument with Gene Krupa. The founder of the ensemble  
M’Boom (muh-BOOM), Max Roach, was a virtuoso of this instrument. Players of this  
instrument are familiar with the “bass” and “snare” varieties, and periodically hit cymbals. For  
10 points, name this percussion instrument played with sticks.  
ANSWER:  drum s 
This is page 2 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5. This novel is reimagined from the perspective of a secondary character in Jean Rhys’s (“gene”  
REES’s) novel  Wide Sargasso Sea.  The protagonist of this novel refuses an offer of marriage  
from the missionary St. John (SIN-juhn) Rivers. After a secret is revealed about the “madwoman  
in the attic” Bertha Mason, this novel’s title woman ultimately marries her employer, Mr.  
Rochester. For 10 points, name this novel by Charlotte Bronte.  
ANSWER:  Jane Eyre   
6. Under UV light, compounds containing only members of this group will dissociate to form  
radicals. An element in this group has the highest electron affinity of any element. Most common  
Lewis acids are metals bonded to members of this group. The only non-mercury element which  
is liquid at room temperature is in this group. This group’s oxidation states are almost always  
negative one, since, if they accept one electron, they gain a full octet. For 10 points, name these  
elements located in Group 17, just left of the noble gases on the Periodic Table.  
ANSWER:  halogen s [or Group  ; or Group   until it is read]  7 17 
7. Under this government, a mental disorder called “zero stroke” became widespread. A minister  
of this government, Walter Rathenau (RAH-tuh-now), was assassinated for negotiating the  
Treaty of Rapallo (ruh-PAH-low). Supposedly, a wheelbarrow of money was needed to buy a  
loaf of bread during the hyperinflation faced by this government. The last president of this  
government signed the Enabling Act after the Reichstag fire. For 10 points, name this  
government, last led by Paul von Hindenburg, that ruled Germany after World War I.  
ANSWER:  Weimar  Republic [prompt on  Germany ]  
8. This city’s Elephanta Island is home to a series of caves that contain many rock-cut sculptures  
of Shiva. This city was originally built on seven islands, which were eventually transformed into  
Salsette (sahl-SET) Island through land reclamation. This city, the capital of Maharashtra (mah- 
hah-RAHSH-truh) state, was the site of several 2008 terrorist attacks, which targeted hotels such  
as the Taj Mahal Palace. For 10 points, name this home of the Bollywood movie industry and  
most populous city of India.  
ANSWER:  Mumbai  [or  Bombay ]  
9. Direct current is unable to pass through these devices when they are in steady-state. The  
strength of one type of these devices is proportional to area and inversely proportional to  
distance, and can be increased by using a dielectric (die-electric). The parameter that describes  
the strength of these things is calculated as charge over voltage. For 10 points, identify this  
circuit element that stores electrical energy, which often takes the form of two parallel plates.  
ANSWER:  capacitor s  
10. This politician wrote a book,  Six Crises , which described his debate in a mock kitchen with a  
Soviet leader. He angrily said that the press would not have him to “kick around” anymore after  
he lost an election for governor of California. This man defended his use of a slush fund in his  
1952 “Checkers speech” while running for Vice-President on the Dwight Eisenhower ticket. For  
10 points, name this President who resigned after the Watergate scandal.  
ANSWER: Richard Milhous  Nixon 
This is page 3 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. This author wrote a play in which a purple cloth is laid out before a man to trick him into  
entering a hall. In the last play of a series by this man, Athena leads the Furies into the earth to  
become the “kindly ones.” He wrote about the murder of the king of Argos by Aegisthus (eye- 
JIS-thiss) and Clytemnestra (KLAI-tem-NESS-truh) in the first play of that series. For 10 points,  
name this first major ancient Greek tragedian, whose plays  The Eumenides  (yoo-MEN-uh-deez)   , 
The Libation Bearers,  and  Agamemnon  make up his  Oresteia  (or-ess-TIE-uh) trilogy.  
ANSWER:  Aeschylus   
12. While at a McDonald’s in this city, Wesley Lowery of the  Washington Post  was shoved into  
a soda fountain machine. State Senator Jamilah (juh-MILL-uh) Nasheed was arrested for  
blocking traffic in this city, which was placed under the control of Captain Ron Johnson by  
Governor Jay Nixon after a QuikTrip convenience store was burned. For 10 points, what  
Missouri city was the site of civil unrest after police officer Darren Wilson shot African- 
American youth Michael Brown?  
ANSWER:  Ferguson  [prompt on  St. Louis ]  
13. When this deity and Zeus visited a small town, Baucis (BAO-kiss) and Philemon (FIE-luh- 
mon) were the only ones that welcomed them into their home. This deity rescued Ares (AIR-eez)  
from a bronze jar and gave Odysseus an herb with which to resist Circe’s (SUR-see’s) magic.  
This deity used cow intestines and a tortoise shell to invent the lyre, which he gave to Apollo  
after stealing some of his cattle. This deity wields the caduceus (cuh-DOO-siss) and wears  
winged sandals. For 10 points, name this Greek messenger god.  
ANSWER:  Hermes   
14. This poet wrote that it would be better to “give her to the god of storms, the lightning and the  
gale,” in a poem about a ship about to be decommissioned. In another poem by this author, the  
speaker hears “through the deep caves of thought” a voice singing, “Build thee more stately  
mansions, O my soul,” while holding the title creature’s shell to his ear. For 10 points, name this  
New England poet of “Old Ironsides” and “The Chambered Nautilus.”  
ANSWER: Oliver Wendell  Holmes , Sr. [“Sr.” is not required, but “Jr.” is incorrect if given]  
15. An immortality-granting plant retrieved by Gilgamesh is stolen by one of these animals. A  
wound from one of these animals forces Ra to reveal his secret name to Isis. In Norse  
mythology, the world is encircled by one of these creatures named Jormungandr (YOR-mun- 
gon-durr). Two of these animals are wrapped around the caduceus. One of these animals tempts  
Eve into eating the forbidden fruit. For 10 points, name these animals which make up the hair of  
Medusa.  
ANSWER:  snake s [or  serpent s] 
This is page 4 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 1  
Directed Round   
1A. What adjective refers to a spheroid elongated along the polar axis and is contrasted with the  
word “oblate”?  
ANSWER:  prolate   
1B. What verb tense is used in the French sentence “ils seront tristes” (eel sair-ON treest)?  
ANSWER:  simple future  [or  futur simple  (samp-luh); prompt on  future ]  
2A. What Polish-born British author wrote  Lord Jim ?  
ANSWER: Joseph  Conrad   
2B. In what Ruggero Leoncavallo (roo-JAIR-oh lay-on-cuh-VAH-loh) opera does the title clown  
sing “Vesti la giubba” (VES-tee luh JOO-buh) as he is forced to put on a show and pretend to  
laugh, even though he has just discovered his wife’s infidelity?  
ANSWER:  I  Pagliacci   
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A right rectangular prism has a volume of 200  
cubic centimeters. What is the volume of a right rectangular prism with half the width, half the  
height, and twelve times the length of the original prism?  
ANSWER:  600  cubic centimeters  
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Ron and Don start at the same point. Ron walks  
northeast at 3 miles per hour. Don walks northwest at 4 miles per hour. After 2 hours, how far  
apart are Ron and Don?  
ANSWER:  10  miles  
4A. What engineer and comedian hosted an educational show in the 90s and was known as “The  
Science Guy”?  
ANSWER: Bill  Nye   
4B. What Russian chemist invented the periodic table and used it to predict the existence of  
ekamanganese (EK-uh-main-guh-neez) and ekasilicon (EK-uh-sil-uh-con)?  
ANSWER: Dmitri  Mendeleev   
5A. What Islamic terrorist group whose name roughly translates to “Western education is  
forbidden” is suspected in a December 2014 raid that killed at least 150 in Damaturu (dah-mah- 
TOUR-oo), Nigeria?  
ANSWER:  Boko Haram  [or  Jama’atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda’Awati Wal-Jihad ; or  People  
Committed to the Prophet’s Teachings for Propagation and Jihad ] 
This is page 5 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5B. What Southern European country’s Years of Lead (LED) culminated in the kidnapping and  
murder of Christian Democratic Prime Minister Aldo Moro by the Red Brigades?  
ANSWER:  Italy  [or  Italian Republic ; or  Repubblica italiana ]  
6A. What animals live in the Virunga (veer-OON-guh) National Park in the Democratic  
Republic of the Congo and were researched by Dian Fossey, who published a book about them  
“in the mist?”  
ANSWER:  gorilla s [or mountain  gorilla s; or  Gorilla s in the Mist ]  
6B. What quantity in physics is defined as power per unit area, and can be measured in candelas  
(can-DEL-uz) for light waves?  
ANSWER: luminous  intensity   
7A. The Dominican monk Savonarola (SAH-vuh-nuh-ROLL-uh) organized what event, which  
targeted mirrors, musical instruments, playing cards, and other objects considered sinful?  
ANSWER:  Bonfire of the Vanities  [or  Falo delle Vanita ]  
7B. What type of weapon was used by Scottish schiltrons (SHEEL-tronz) at Bannockburn  
(BAH-nuk-burn) and by Ancient Greek phalanx (FAY-lanx) formations, who called them  
“sarissas” (suh-RISS-uz)?  
ANSWER:  spear s [or  pike s]  
8A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Suppose that the Sharks and the Dolphins are  
playing a best three-out-of-five series in which the Sharks have a two-thirds probability of  
winning any given game. What is the probability that the series goes to a fifth game?  
ANSWER:  8/27  [or  24/81 ]  
8B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the unique value of x between 0 and pi radians  
such that cosine of one-half x equals sine of x.  
ANSWER:  pi/3  radians  
9A. What kind of weapon includes mythological examples such as Tyrfing (TEER-fing), owned  
by Svafrlami (suh-VAHF-ur-LAH-mee), and Durandal (DUR-un-doll), wielded by the hero of  
the  Song of Roland ?  
ANSWER:  sword   
9B. What contemporary American novelist wrote  No Country for Old Men, All the Pretty    
Horses,  and  Blood Meridian ?  
ANSWER: Cormac  McCarthy   
10A. The edge length of a cube is multiplied by what constant to find the length of a cube’s  
space diagonal?  
ANSWER: square  root  of    3 
This is page 6 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
10B. What friend of Goethe (GEER-tuh) wrote such plays as  The Robbers  and  William Tell ?  
ANSWER: Friedrich  Schiller  [Johann Christoph Friedrich von  Schiller ] 
This is page 7 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 1  
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. One of these events led to a trial conducted by Jean Noel Destrehan and occurred in the  
German Coast region. A leader of one of these events described his visions of blood dripping  
from corn to the lawyer Thomas Gray Ruffin. Denmark Vesey planned one of these events, and a  
man known as “Cato” instigated one of them named for the Stono (STONE-oh) River.  
Participants in one of these events murdered roughly sixty people in Southampton County. For  
10 points, name this type of insurrection, one of which was led by Nat Turner.  
ANSWER:  slave revolt s [or obvious equivalents]  
2. This poet wrote a four-act drama in which Demogorgon (deh-moh-GOR-gon) deposes Zeus,  
and the title character is united with his love Asia. This poet of  Prometheus Unbound  addressed  
a “preserver and destroyer” in a poem asking that natural force to “make me thy lyre.” At the end  
of that poem, this poet asked, “If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?” For 10 points, name  
this Romantic poet of “To a Skylark” and “Ode to the West Wind.”  
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe  Shelley   
3. Deborah Gewertz claimed that this anthropologist’s research on matriarchy in the Chambri  
(CHOM-bree) region was not reproducible. People interviewed by this woman lied to her about  
using chicken blood to hide their virginity, according to a critique by Derek Freeman claiming  
that this writer was “hoaxed.” She wrote about children being ignored until they became  
teenagers in a book with a foreword by Franz Boas which studies young people on Ta’u (tuh- 
OW). For 10 points, name this anthropologist who wrote  Coming of Age in Samoa .  
ANSWER: Margaret  Mead   
4. The protagonist of this novel is saved when he learns of an available “firewagon” to take his  
family south. This novel begins a trilogy that also includes  Sons  and  A House Divided . In this  
novel, the protagonist pulls a rickshaw for a living while his wife O-Lan begs along with his  
children. This novel begins on the wedding day of the Chinese farmer Wang Lung. For 10  
points, name this novel by Pearl S. Buck.  
ANSWER:  The  Good Earth   
5. Dual concrete spiral ramps surround a modernist Penguin Pool in this city’s zoo. A skyscraper  
nicknamed “The Gherkin” and a helmet-shaped city hall are among the Norman Foster-designed  
structures located in this city. A plate-glass and cast-iron building known as the Crystal Palace  
was built here for the 1851 Great Exhibition. Most of this city can be seen from the top of a tall  
Ferris wheel nicknamed the Eye. After a 1666 fire leveled much of this city, Christopher Wren  
rebuilt St. Paul’s Cathedral. For 10 points, name this home to Buckingham Palace and Big Ben.  
ANSWER:  London , England 
This is page 8 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. This condition may be marked by “stumbles, mumbles, fumbles, and grumbles.” Afterdrop  
may occur during treatment of this issue, due to stagnant blood returning to the core. Later  
phases of it can include terminal burrowing and paradoxical undressing. Because it lessens  
oxygen stress on the brain, this condition may improve survival in near-drownings. Severe cases  
of this condition are marked by mental confusion, puffy blue skin, and loss of shivering. For 10  
points, name this condition in which core body temperature drops below 95 degrees Fahrenheit.  
ANSWER:  hypothermia  [do not accept “hyperthermia”]  
7. This artist created a pioneering outdoor portrait of an umbrella-carrying dog breeder crossing a  
busy thoroughfare with his daughters. An exhausted orange-clad girl sits on a disused double  
bass in another painting by this artist. He depicted his brother reading a newspaper as his  
bankrupted uncle lays out white bales for inspection in his painting  A Cotton Office in New  
Orleans.  For 10 points, name this Impressionist painter of  The Dance Lesson  and many other  
depictions of ballerinas.  
ANSWER: Edgar  Degas  [Hilaire Germain Edgar  De Gas ]  
8. The geometric mean of two numbers is this function taken on their product. An iterative  
process for approximating this function by dividing and averaging was discovered by the  
Babylonians and is sometimes called Heron’s Formula. For a thirty-sixty-ninety triangle, the  
length of the longer leg will be the length of the shorter leg times this function’s value at three.  
For some number “x,” this function can be written as “x to the power of one-half.” For 10 points,  
name this function that is the inverse of squaring a number.  
ANSWER: square  root  [do not prompt on “square”]  
9. This man wrote a detailed refutation of Robert Filmer’s book  Patriarcha . He penned the  
Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina  and claimed that the ownership of property is justified by  
the work and labor extended to make such property beneficial to society. This philosopher wrote  
a 1689 text proclaiming the mind at birth was a blank slate, or “tabula rasa” (TAH-byoo-luh  
RAH-suh). For 10 points, name this English philosopher who wrote  Two Treatises of  
Government  and  An Essay Concerning Human Understanding .  
ANSWER: John  Locke   
10. A lake referred to with this surname was created when the Grand Coulee (COO-lee) Dam  
impounded a river in Washington state in 1941. An island with this name is home to The  
Octagon and was formerly called Welfare Island. The “Four Freedoms Park” is on that narrow  
island of this family name in the East River of New York. A Chicago university established in  
1945 was named after Eleanor and a man with this last name who articulated the New Deal. For  
10 points, give this surname of a President who served from 1933 to 1945.  
ANSWER:  Roosevelt   
11. The question of how densely these objects can be packed is the subject of Kepler’s  
conjecture. It is not a hyperbola, but a common non-Euclidean geometry is done on the surface  
of these shapes. The coordinates named for this object use three variables: theta, phi, and rho.  
The volume enclosed by one of these objects is called a ball, and they have surface area equal to  
4 pi times radius-squared. For 10 points, what is this three-dimensional analogue of the circle?  
ANSWER:  sphere s [prompt on  ball  until it is read] 
This is page 9 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
12. In this song, the singer declares that he put on his “best suit” and then “raced like a jet all the  
way to you.” In the music video for this song, the lead singer tries to gain the blessing of his  
girlfriend’s father but is rebuffed while singing “can I have your daughter for the rest of my life?  
Say yes, say yes, cause I need to know.” The other members of the band encourage the singer of  
this song to “marry that girl, marry her anyway.” For 10 points, name this song by the band  
Magic, whose chorus asks “why you gotta be” the title adjective.  
ANSWER: “ Rude ”  
13. Fermat’s Little Theorem says that “negative a plus a to the power of n” is a multiple of n if n  
is one of these numbers. If Goldbach’s conjecture is true, then every even number greater than 2  
is a sum of two of these numbers. Mersenne (mur-SEN) numbers are a subtype of these numbers  
that take the form “2 to the n, minus 1.” These numbers may be simply but inefficiently found  
using the Sieve of Eratosthenes (err-uh-TOSS-thuh-neez). For 10 points, name these numbers  
which are not composite, and whose only factors are one and themselves.  
ANSWER:  prime  numbers  
14. The growth of this policy was opposed by the Fagan Commission but was supported by the  
subsequent Sauer commission. The Sharpeville massacre inspired opponents of this policy to  
form the Spear of the Nation. The pass laws were part of this policy, which was the subject of a  
protest during which Steve Biko (BEE-koh) was killed, the Soweto (sow-EY-toh) Uprising. F.W.  
de Klerk helped end this policy by releasing a political prisoner from Robben Island in 1990. For  
10 points, name this system opposed by Nelson Mandela in South Africa.  
ANSWER:  apartheid  [prompt on  South African segregation  or other descriptive answers]  
15. After this battle, the Witenagemot (WIT-ehn-AH-gey-mott) proclaimed Edgar the Aetheling  
(ETH-uh-ling) king. Waltham Abbey claims to hold the body of this battle’s loser. Alan the Red  
and Eustace (YOOS-tuss) II of Boulogne (boo-LOAN) commanded two units of the winning  
side of this battle. Prior to this battle, the losers defeated an invading Norwegian force led by  
Harald Hardrada (HARD-ruh-duh) at Stamford Bridge. For 10 points, name this battle where  
Anglo-Saxon forces under Harold Godwinson were defeated by William the Conqueror.  
ANSWER: Battle of  Hastings 
This is page 10 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 1  
Tiebreaker/replacement questions   
1. A point in this location, originally called HMRG for the group that discovered it, was renamed  
Sirena (sai-RAY-nuh). A vessel designed for exploring a part of this location was used in 2012  
by filmmaker James Cameron. In 1960, Jacques Piccard and Don Walsh used the  Trieste  (TRIS- 
tay) to reach a part of this location. For 10 points, name this location in the western Pacific  
Ocean that is the trench containing the lowest point on Earth, the Challenger Deep.  
ANSWER:  Mariana s Trench [or  Challenger Deep  until it is read]  
2. Akasaki (AH-kuh-SAH-kee), Amano, and Nakamura won the 2014 Nobel Prize in Physics for  
work with diodes that emit this color of light. Types of lightning in the upper atmosphere include  
“jets” of these color which are contrasted with “red sprites.” Cerenkov (CHAIR-ank-off)  
radiation appears as this color, which is also emitted by stars in the O and B spectral classes.  
Objects moving toward an observer will experience this color’s “shift.” For 10 points, Rayleigh  
scattering is responsible for the daytime sky appearing as what color?  
ANSWER:  blue  [or light-emitting  diode s or  LED s until “diodes” is read]  
3. A Soviet Republic was declared in this country’s town of Madiun (MAD-ee-un) in 1948, a  
year after it was invaded in Operation Product. Six generals here were assassinated by the 30th  
of September Movement. The leader of this country’s New Order regime overthrew the promoter  
of Pancasila (PAHN-cuh-SILL-uh) and Guided Democracy. This country’s capital was called  
Batavia (buh-TAY-vee-uh) when this country was the Dutch East Indies. For 10 points, name  
this country where Sukarno (soo-KARN-oh) and Suharto (soo-HART-oh) ruled from Jakarta.  
ANSWER:  Indonesia  [Republic of  Indonesia ]  
4. A son of this deity wins a race when he proclaims this god and his wife to be the entire world,  
and then runs laps around them three times. This god consumes the poison that is produced from  
the churning of the ocean. This deity angrily beheads a young boy blocking him from entering  
his own house, but later gives him the head of an elephant as a replacement. This deity is the  
wife of Parvati (PAR-vuh-tee) and the father of Ganesha (guh-NAISH-uh). For 10 points, name  
this Hindu god of destruction, who forms a trinity with Brahma and Vishnu.  
ANSWER:  Shiva   
5. In this play, two characters are successfully married after both of them tell their parents they  
are not ready. In this play, the alcoholic choirmaster Simon Stimson commits suicide, and the  
Stage Manager introduces and comments on the action. This play follows Emily Webb and  
George Gibbs, who are both residents of the title location, Grover’s Corners. For 10 points, name  
this play by Thornton Wilder.  
ANSWER:  Our Town 
This is page 11 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 1 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
What nineteenth-century, color-blind scientist names a law stating that the sum of partial  
pressures is equal to the total pressure of a mixture of gases?  
ANSWER: John  Dalton   
This is a calculation question. What is the range of the function y equals 3 plus cosine of quantity  
6 pi t plus pi over 4?  
ANSWER:  2 to 4 , inclusive [or y is  between 2 and 4 , inclusive] 
