NASAT 2012 
Round 9 
Tossups 
1. Francis Steegmuller wrote a “double portrait” of this work's protagonist and its author, who claimed this 
work had “nothing true in it.” The last words one character hears before dying are from the song of a blind 
man, “The wind is strong this summer day, her petticoat has flown away.” One character performs a 
toxicological analysis of that character even after it is clear she has taken arsenic she bought from his shop. 
That man, Homais, works on a botched operation of a clubfooted boy conducted by a man who dies deep in 
debt after discovering love letters between his late wife and Rodolphe Boulanger. For 10 points, name this 
novel about the wife of the doctor Charles, a work of Gustave Flaubert. 
ANSWER:  
Madame Bovary 
121-12-59-09102 
2. The opening movement of one of these works by this composer unusually, for the 18th century, 
combined a set of variations and a fugue. The third movement of one of these works by this man features a 
strict canon and is nicknamed  
Hexenmenuett 
. That work is named for its opening motif of falling tonic and 
dominant open fifths, similar to the chimes of Big Ben. A set of variations in the second movement of 
another one is based on the melody from its composer's hymn \"Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser,\" better 
known as the theme of the \"Deutschlandlied.\" The \"Erdody\" set contains the best known ones, such as 
\"Emperor.\" For 10 points, name these works for a chamber ensemble by the father of the symphony. 
ANSWER:  
string quartets 
 of Joseph  
Haydn 
 [prompt on  
string quartet 
s; accept Joseph  
Haydn's opus 76 
or Joseph Haydn's  
Erdody 
 string  
quartets 
 before \"Erdody\" is read] 
066-12-59-09103 
3. This man had a thigh made of gold and could appear in two places at once. This author of the \"Golden 
Verses\" developed an emblem called the  
tetractys 
 and preached a form of reincarnation called  
metempsychosis 
, which led him to forbid consuming meat. He is credited with discovering the relationship 
between frequency ratios and musical harmonies, and he developed a cult dedicated to investigating the 
mystical properties of numbers. For 10 points, name this Greek mathematician and philosopher, also known 
for a theorem regarding the sides of right triangles. 
ANSWER:  
Pythagoras 
080-12-59-09104 
4. Along with Kathryn Braun and Braun’s husband, this scholar demonstrated that Wendy’s ads focusing 
on Wendy’s Playland experiences were more successful than ads announcing free Frostys. With John 
Palmer, this thinker asked participants a series of questions in which each group was presented with a 
different verb, ranging from “contacted” to “smashed.” In that study, she had college students attempt to 
guess the speed of vehicles after watching clips of car accidents. In her most famous study, several 
participants, when presented with four narratives describing childhood events, misidentified as true a story 
about being rescued by an elderly person at a shopping center when separated from a family member. For 
10 points, name this female psychologist best known for her “lost in the mall” study which is an analysis of 
false memories. 
ANSWER: Elizabeth  
Loftus 
 [or Elizabeth  
Fishman 
] 
052-12-59-09105 
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  1 of 13 
5. This man was attacked with a dessert knife by Margaret Nicholson. James Hadfield shot at this man at 
Drury Lane, but then told him \"I like you very well.\" This man was depicted in one cartoon as a giant using 
a spyglass to observe a Frenchman standing in his palm. This ruler dismissed the \"Ministry of All the 
Talents,\" which contained his former nemesis Charles Fox. During this ruler's reign, John Wilkes led troops 
against men who had destroyed Newgate Prison to protest the Papists Act. This man ruled during the 
Gordon Riots and the collapse of Lord North's ministry. His successor ruled as Prince Regent in his last 
years, possibly because porphyria caused his mental illness. For 10 points, name this British king during the 
American Revolution. 
ANSWER:  
George III 
 of Great Britain [or  
George William Frederick 
; or  
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich 
; 
prompt on  
George 
; prompt on  
Georg 
] 
052-12-59-09106 
6. Along with the charge of an electron, this fundamental constant appears in the numerator of the Lamb 
formula for determining the diamagnetic contribution to the shielding constant. In the cgs-emu system, this 
constant is set to one. This constant is multiplied by H on the x-axis of B-field versus H-field plots. In 
standard cgs units, it is equal to four pi times ten to the negative seventh volt-seconds per ampere-meter. It 
is multiplied by current in the integral form of Ampere's Law. In SI units this quantity is equal to four pi 
times ten to the negative seventh. One over the square of the speed of light equals this quantity times the 
vacuum permittivity. For 10 points, name this fundamental constant designated mu-nought. 
ANSWER:  
vacuum permeability 
 [or  
permeability of free space 
; or  
magnetic constant 
; or  
mu nought 
before read; or  
mu 
 sub  
zero 
 before \"mu\" is read; prompt on  
permeability 
; prompt on  
mu 
 before read] 
003-12-59-09107 
7. One character in this play frets that her copy of  
Mademoiselle de Maupin 
 will be discovered. Another 
character attempts to defuse a tense situation by revealing that the Lyceum in Rochester has a toilet 
backstage. The antagonist of this play breaks an ornament at the end of the first act, lies about there being a 
keyhole on a door, and is motivated by being forbidden to go to the boat races. Earlier, that character shows 
up late to a class reciting lines from  
The Merchant of Venice 
 and pretends to faint in a plan thwarted by the 
doctor Joe Cardin. In this play, Rosalie is coerced into lying by Mary Tilford, who accuses Martha Dobie 
and Karen Wright of lesbianism. For 10 points, name this play by Lillian Hellman. 
ANSWER:  
The  Children’s Hour 
020-12-59-09108 
8. X-ray analysis of this painting reveals that it originally had a clothes basket in the bottom right, which 
currently contains a footwarmer next to a floortile decorated with a picture of Cupid, possibly representing 
sexual desire. A copper pail and a basket hang on the walls behind this painting's title figure. Pieces of 
broken bread, a basket, a pitcher, and an earthenware pot lie on the octagonal table in front of the title 
woman, who wears yellow and blue and holds a pitcher horizontally. For 10 points, name this Jan Vermeer 
genre painting, which depicts a servant girl pouring out some white liquid. 
ANSWER:  
The  Milkmaid 
 [or  
The  Maidservant 
; or  
De  Melkmeid 
] 
080-12-59-09109 
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  2 of 13 
9. The key structural feature of these genes is shared by NANOG, and POU proteins contain both that 
feature and a homologous POU domain. The expression of these genes are regulated by polycomb and 
trithorax, and many of them are induced by the retinoic acid receptor. Duplication of these genes was a 
major factor in the evolution of vertebrates, and important ones include Ubx and Scr. In humans they are 
arranged in four clusters, and are arranged in spatial order of expression. All of them code for a conserved 
sixty amino acid helix-turn-helix domain. Mutations in these genes cause things like antennas to grow on 
the head and limbs to be improperly placed. For 10 points, name these genes that are responsible for laying 
out the body plan of an organism. 
ANSWER:  
hox 
 genes or  
homeobox 
 genes [or  
homeodomain 
 genes] 
048-12-59-09110 
10. Following one attempt to tax women in this country, a women's revolt led by the Oloko trio began. 
Several days following the \"coup from heaven,\" this country's soccer team defeated Spain in the group 
stage of the 1998 FIFA World Cup. That coup ended the dictatorship of Sani Abacha in this country. The 
Arubi Accords failed to avert a civil war between Odumegwu Ojukwu and Yakubu Gowon in this country. 
Sani Abacha was responsible for executing an Ogoni leader who led MOSOP, which campaigned against 
the oil industry in this country. That leader from this country was Ken Saro-Wiwa. For 10 points each, 
name this country that was forced into civil war in the 1960s by the secession of Biafra. 
ANSWER: Federal Republic of  
Nigeria 
149-12-59-09111 
11. This character jokingly asks if a slave for sale is a master thief upon hearing his price. He instructs 
another character, “First, be thou void of these affections: compassion, love, vain hope, and heartless fear.” 
This character’s monologues include one beginning, “As for myself, I walk abroad a-nights and kill sick 
people groaning under walls.” In his first appearance, he imagines the prospect of “infinite riches in a little 
room.” This character is boiled in a cauldron by Ferneze, and he poisons his daughter Abigail after she 
converts to Christianity. For 10 points, name this title character of  
The Jew of Malta. 
ANSWER:  
Barabas 
 [prompt on the  
Jew of Malta 
 before it is read] 
014-12-59-09112 
12. This man's submitted design for the League of Nations building in Geneva was rejected on the grounds 
that he did not write it in Indian ink. One of his buildings has a curved roof resembling an airplane wing 
that lies slightly above the rest of the building, letting in a crack of light. This man advocated putting 
gardens on the roofs of buildings to make up for the area taken up by the buildings themselves. Having 
measured the turning radius of a 1927 Citroen, he designed the ground floor of a house held up by five  
pilotis 
 such that it appears to be floating. This man called a house \"a machine for living\" and set forth five 
points on architecture. For 10 points, name this architect of the Notre Dame du Haut and the Villa Savoye. 
ANSWER:  
Le Corbusier 
 [or Charles-Edouard  
Jeanneret 
-Gris] 
127-12-59-09113 
13. Two legends from this country involve retrieving a comb stuck in the forehead hairs of a boar and a 
battle in which the trees come alive to fight. Maids from one legend of this country act like their mistress 
ate her baby son after covering that mistress in puppy blood. A legendary figure from here was reborn from 
a witch who had eaten him with a newly-shining forehead. Many myths from this country were collected 
and translated by Lady Charlotte Guest in the  
Mabinogion 
. A mythical prince from here, Pryderi’s father 
Pwyll, has a wife who is impossible to catch while on horseback. For 10 points, name this home of the bard 
Taliesin and the equestrian Rhiannon, which is no longer an independent nation. 
ANSWER:  
Wales 
 [or  
Cymru 
; prompt  
United Kingdom 
; do not accept “England”] 
104-12-59-09114 
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  3 of 13 
14. A boron-nitrogen analogue of this compound is known as borazine. In hydrogen NMR, this compound 
shows a single peak around 7.2 ppm. Derivatives of this compound include salicylic acid, used in the 
production of aspirin, and aniline, used in artificial dyes. A molecule formed by fusing three units of this 
compound together is called anthracene. All of the bonds in this compound have a length of 140 
picometers, which represents an intermediate between single and double bond length. A circle is often 
drawn in the middle of this compound to represent its delocalization, which is preserved in electrophilic 
substitutions. For 10 points, name this aromatic molecule with formula C H . 
6 6 
ANSWER:  
benzene 
 [accept  
C H 
6 6 
 before mentioned] 
020-12-59-09115 
15. The  
New York Times 
 claimed that Mary Fisher \"brought [this issue] home\" with a speech at the 1992 
Republican National Convention. Due to fear over this issue, teenager Ryan White was banned from 
attending his middle school. The death of Roger Horowitz led Paul Monette to write  
Borrowed Time 
 about 
this issue. Journalist Randy Shilts published an investigation of this issue called  
And The Band Played On 
. 
This issue gained further publicity after the death of actor Rock Hudson. As this problem gained 
prominence, it was termed \"GRID.\" Others affected by it included Liberace and Magic Johnson. For 10 
points, name this epidemic caused by HIV. 
ANSWER:  
AIDS 
 epidemic [or equivalent answers; accept  
HIV 
 epidemic before read] 
080-12-59-09116 
16. Performing this operation on the Riemann zeta function yields the Stieltjes constants. For a static 
charge distribution, the multipole moments can be found by performing this operation over the potential 
function in terms of Cartesian coordinates. A second-order approximation of this procedure is used to 
mathematically prove the small angle approximation. Complex functions are represented with an alternate 
procedure named for Laurent. The term obtained from the n+1 iteration of this procedure is used to find the 
R sub n of x, or its remainder. When centered at zero, the Maclaurin series is obtained. For 10 points, name 
this way to use a function's derivatives to represent it as an infinite sum of terms. 
ANSWER:  
Taylor expansion 
 [or  
Taylor series 
] 
020-12-59-09117 
17. Leo Strauss’s  
Thoughts on 
 this thinker were discussed in a work by Harvey Mansfield, who argued that 
this man sought to overthrow Christianity. This man used a poetic quote beginning “Virtue shall take up 
arms against savagery” to inspire his countrymen, at the end a book that uses the metaphors of a damming 
a river and beating a woman to describe mastering Fortune. Frederick II of Prussia wrote a tract against this 
man, who often discussed a type of skillful manliness called  
virtu. 
 This man condemned mercenaries and 
encouraged those with a choice to pick being feared over being loved. For 10 points, name this author of  
Discourses on Livy, 
 the Florentine who wrote a realist tract about rule called  
The Prince 
. 
ANSWER: Niccolo  
Machiavelli 
104-12-59-09118 
18. This poem describes trees “white with dust, that…wave their broad curtains in the south-wind’s breath.” 
This poem states, “The groaning earth in travail and in pain brings forth its races” after describing a group 
“Taught in the school of patience to endure the life of anguish and the death of fire.” The speaker angrily 
defends the people “underneath these leafy tents” who “keep the long, mysterious Exodus of death.” For 
10 points, name this poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow describing “These Hebrews in their graves, 
close by the street of this fair seaport town.” 
ANSWER: “The  
Jewish Cemetery at Newport 
” 
014-12-59-09119 
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  4 of 13 
19. In 2010, after she performed a striptease at this location for a YouTube video, there was a call to deport 
French stripper Alizee Sery from one country. Government regulation of this location officially began in 
1958, with certain regulations forbidding photography to protect “tjukurpa” obligations. One story about 
this place states that the “woma python” Kuniya lived there and fought the poisonous snake Liru. In 1983, 
a plan tentatively forbidding climbing at this location was approved by Bob Hawke, although it has yet to 
be implemented. This location’s namesake had made his fortune as the secretary and managing director of 
the “Monster Mine” at the Burra Burra Copper Mines. Sacred to the local Anangu people, it lies about 200 
miles southwest of Alice Springs. For 10 points, name this sandstone formation in the Northern Territory in 
Australia. 
ANSWER:  
Ayers 
 Rock [or  
Uluru 
; or  
Uluru 
-Kata Tjuta National Park] 
052-12-59-09120 
20. Andrew II invited this group to defend his borderland against Cuman forces. This group expelled the 
Victual Brothers from the island of Gotland. Following one of this group's defeats, this group was forced to 
sign the Treaty of Torun, which required that this group give up Samogitia and Dobrzyn land. Prior to 
Hermann von Salza's death, the Order of the Brothers of the Sword became a branch of this group. It once 
controlled the Hospital of St. Mary in Jerusalem. This group gained power following Frederick II's Golden 
Bull of Rimini. This group's grand master Ulrich von Junginen was defeated in the 1410 Battle of 
Tannenberg. For 10 points, name this Germanic order that was also defeated at the Battle of the Ice by 
Alexander Nevsky. 
ANSWER:  
Teuton 
ic Knights [or  
Teuton 
ic Order; or House of the Hospitalers of Saint Mary of the  
Teuton 
s in Jerusalem; or  
Deutsch 
er Ritter-Orden; or Haus der Ritter des Hospitals Sankt Marien der  
Deutsch 
en 
zu Jerusalem; or Domus Sanctae Mariae  
Theuton 
icorum in Jerusalem] 
030-12-59-09121 
21. The author of this novel admitted that many of the acts committed by the protagonist were inspired by 
Joris-Karl Huysmans  
Á Rebours. 
 After his death, the protagonist's servants identify him only by the rings 
on his fingers. Another character is rejected by her lover after she glowingly reflects on how terribly she 
played the part of Juliet. The protagonist of this novel blackmails the chemist Alan Campbell into 
destroying a body and drives the actress Sybil Vane to suicide. The title character of this novel falls under 
the influence of Lord Henry Wotton, causing him to lay the consequences for his sins on a creation of Basil 
Hallward. For 10 points, name this novel by Oscar Wilde. 
ANSWER:  
The  Picture of Dorian Gray 
064-12-59-09122 
22. This material causes potential wells and hills that are exhibited in the late-time integrated Sachs-Wolfe 
effect. The FLRW metric shows that one accepted model of this material would need to have negative 
pressure. In 2011, the Hubble Telescope ruled out a bubble of empty space that was considered an 
alternative to this material. Two proposed forms of this material are quintessence and a type described by 
the cosmological constant; those two forms are used in describing a stationary and accelerating universe. 
For 10 points, name this hypothetical material believed to form the majority of the mass-energy content of 
the universe. 
ANSWER:  
dark energy 
 [do not accept \"dark matter\"; prompt on  
energy 
] 
064-12-59-09123 
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  5 of 13 
23. One of this leader's ministers met with the U.S. President at the Glassboro Summit. His regime was 
criticized for convicting the alleged dissidents Andrei Sinyavsky and Yuly Daniel. A minister under this 
man who strongly opposed the invasion of Czechoslovakia was Alexei Kosygin. While leading the 
Communist Party of Kazakhstan, this man instituted his predecessor's Virgin Lands Program. The Era of 
Stagnation began under this man, whose minister Andrei Gromyko pursued a policy of détente with the 
U.S. by signing the SALT I Treaty. His forces failed to overthrow the mujahideen in Afghanistan in the 
1980s. For 10 points, name this Soviet leader whose doctrine justified Soviet intervention in socialist 
countries not keeping to the Soviet model. 
ANSWER: Leonid Ilich  
Brezhnev 
079-12-59-09124 
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  6 of 13 
NASAT 2012 
Round 9 
Bonuses 
1. In 2003, computer scientists discovered the AKS algorithm, which is the first example of this procedure 
in polynomial time. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this procedure, which determines whether a given integer can be factored into numbers besides 
one and itself. 
ANSWER:  
primality testing 
 [accept word forms that describe if a number is prime] 
[10] The simplest method of determining primality is this one which takes exponential time. This procedure 
consists of listing all primes up to a given value and crossing out all multiples of two, then three, then five, 
and so on. 
ANSWER:  
sieve of Eratosthenes 
[10] This man attempted to find a computational formula for the sieve of Eratosthenes. His namesake 
polynomials form a sequence of orthogonal terms which can be generated by Rodrigues' formula and are 
used as coefficients for the expansion of potential equations. 
ANSWER: Adrien-Marie  
Legendre 
121-12-59-09201  
2. This work demonstrates that a meter stick cannot always be said to be one meter because the length of 
the stick may change if it is cooled or heated. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this philosophical text that argues that proper nouns are rigid designators, phrases that designate 
the same one thing in all the worlds where that thing exists. 
ANSWER:  
Naming and Necessity 
[10] This modal logician wrote  
Naming and Necessity 
 and the essay “A Puzzle about Belief.” 
ANSWER: Saul  
Kripke 
[10] In a work about this philosopher’s rules and private language, Saul Kripke advanced a skeptical 
interpretation of this man’s  
Philosophical Investigations 
. This logical positivist wrote  
Tractatus 
Logico-Philosophicus 
. 
ANSWER: Ludwig  
Wittgenstein 
079-12-59-09202  
3. Its name derives from a Sarmatian word meaning the “river on the far side.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name the European river that flows through Russia and forms the border of Belarus and Ukraine. It 
was known as the Borysthenes to the Greeks. 
ANSWER:  
Dnieper 
 River 
[10] The Dnieper River empties into this body of water, which is connected to the Sea of Azov by the Strait 
of Kerch. 
ANSWER:  
Black Sea 
[10] One of the major cities on the Dnieper is this capital, said to have been founded by four siblings. It was 
ruled by Vladimir I, the first prince in the area to convert to Christianity 
ANSWER:  
Kiev 
147-12-59-09203  
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  7 of 13 
4. Answer some questions about the fourth book of the Torah, the Book of Numbers, for 10 points each. 
[10] In Numbers, this woman is stricken with leprosy while the Jews are wandering and later dies. She is 
the sister of Moses. 
ANSWER:  
Miriam 
[10] These peoples' duties as a holy tribe are laid out in much of the Book of Numbers. Though marked as 
holy, this one of the Twelve Tribes ranked below the high priests called kohanim. 
ANSWER:  
Levite 
s [or children of  
Levi 
; or tribe of  
Levi 
] 
[10] In Numbers, this Levite leads 250 rebels against Moses and Aaron, claiming that God chooses no 
leaders. God opens up the earth to swallow this man and his reluctant followers Dathan and Abiram. 
ANSWER:  
Korach 
 [or  
Korah 
] 
104-12-59-09204  
5. This poem describes a time when \"the wind carried away the cottonwool\" and \"oxide scattered crystal 
and nickel.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem about the demise of Ignacio Sanchez Mejias. 
ANSWER: \" 
Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter 
\" [or \" 
Llanto por Ignacio Sanchez Mejias 
\"; or \" 
Lament for Ignacio Sanchez Mejias 
\"] 
[10] In the lament, the bullfighter dies at this time, which is repeated on nearly every other line of \"Cogida 
and Death,\" the first of its four parts. 
ANSWER: at  
five 
 in the afternoon [or  
five 
 o'clock; or a las  
cinco 
 de las tarde] 
[10] This Spanish author of the plays  
Yerma 
 and  
Blood Wedding 
 wrote \"Lament for the Death of a 
Bullfighter.\" 
ANSWER: Federico Garcia  
Lorca 
003-12-59-09205  
6. Before dying, this man wrote a \"Message to the Public,\" in which he said \"we took risks, we knew we 
took them.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Englishman who died in 1912 during his ill-fated Terra Nova Expedition. He discovered 
that he had been beaten to a certain location by Roald Amundsen. 
ANSWER: Robert Falcon  
Scott 
[10] Amundsen was thus the first human to reach this geographic location, doing so on December 14, 1911. 
Ernest Shackleton had earlier unsuccessfully tried to reach this location, before turning back due to the 
cold. 
ANSWER:  
South Pole 
[10] This British nobleman praised Scott's courage. He achieved fame for triumphing during the Siege of 
Mafeking against the Boers and also wrote the 1908 book  
Scouting for Boys 
. 
ANSWER: Robert Stephenson Smyth  
Baden-Powell 
 [or Baron  
Baden-Powell 
; or Lord  
Baden-Powell 
] 
052-12-59-09206  
7. The Hulse-Taylor binary system provided indirect evidence for the gravitational waves predicted by this 
theory. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this theory of gravitation that is governed by the Einstein field equations. 
ANSWER:  
general relativity 
[10] This states that inertial and gravitational mass are equal. It was tested by Eotvos using a torsion 
balance. 
ANSWER:  
equivalence 
 principle 
[10] One of the earliest pieces of supporting evidence for general relativity was its accounting for the 
anomalous precession of this point in the orbit of this planet. Both answers required. 
ANSWER:  
perihelion 
 of  
Mercury 
127-12-59-09207  
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  8 of 13 
8. The premiere of this composer's  
Third Symphony 
 was a complete disaster, with barely two dozen 
audience members left at the conclusion of its finale. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer of three masses, in D, E and F minor, who was intensely disliked by the 
anti-Wagnerian critic Eduard Hanslick. He is also known for composing a \"zeroth\" symphony. 
ANSWER: Josef Anton  
Bruckner 
[10] The second movement of this Bruckner symphony employs four Wagner Tubas in memory of Richard 
Wagner. 
ANSWER: Bruckner's  
Seventh Symphony 
 [or  
Symphony no. 7 
 in E Major] 
[10] It is said the the climactic clash of these instruments in the  
Adagio 
 movement of Bruckner's Seventh 
was written at the precise moment Wagner died. These percussion instruments consist of thin round plates 
which are banged together. 
ANSWER:  
cymbal 
s 
066-12-59-09208  
9. This poem notes the heavens are “keeping time, time, time, in a sort of Runic rhyme” to the sound of the 
title objects. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem which ends by describing the “moaning and the groaning” of the title objects, which 
in the four parts of the poem, signal merriment, happiness, terror, and a world of solemn thought. 
ANSWER: “The  
Bells 
” 
[10] “The Bells” is a poem by this morose American author, whose other works include “The Raven” and 
“Annabel Lee.” 
ANSWER: Edgar Allan  
Poe 
[10] This Poe story begins as an essay, in which the narrator claims the title entity causes people to do evil 
things. In the story, the narrator ends up killing a man using a poisonous candle, but eventually confesses 
and is executed. 
ANSWER: “The  
Imp of the Perverse 
” 
052-12-59-09209  
10. A frenzied attempt to rescue archaeological finds followed this man's authorization of the \"dam of the 
revolution,\" which created a reservoir named for him. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this president who faced a coup led by his brother Rifaat, ordered the Hama massacre, and ruled 
from 1971 to 2000. 
ANSWER:  afez al- 
H Assad 
 [or  afiz al- 
H Assad 
; prompt on al- 
Assad 
] 
[10] Hafez al-Assad ruled this Middle Eastern country. Hafez's son Bashar crushed recent protests in this 
country. 
ANSWER:  
Syria 
n Arab Republic [or Al Jumhuriyah al Arabiyah as  
Suriya 
h] 
[10] Following Ottoman rule, Syria was placed under a mandate by this European country, which defeated 
a movement for self-rule at the Battle of Maysalun. 
ANSWER:  
France 
 [or  
French Republic 
; or  
Republique francaise 
] 
020-12-59-09210  
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  9 of 13 
11. This material is composed of a crystal lattice of solitary protons surrounded by a sea of unbound 
electrons. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this form of hydrogen that is thought to exist below the layer of liquid hydrogen in the 
atmosphere of the solar system’s largest planet, directly above a solid core. 
ANSWER:  
metallic 
 hydrogen 
[10] This is the aforementioned largest planet in the solar system. Dark bands called belts are areas where 
lower pressure clouds are sinking down from the top of this planet’s atmosphere, which is where the 
anti-cyclonic Great Red Spot can be found. 
ANSWER:  
Jupiter 
[10] This unmanned spacecraft is the only one to have orbited Jupiter and the first to have launched a probe 
into Jupiter’s atmosphere. This probe directly observed the Shoemaker-Levy 9 impact and discovered 
Dactyl, the first asteroid moon. 
ANSWER:  
Galileo 
149-12-59-09211  
12. One opera by this composer has Scarpia betray the title character and allow Cavaradossi to be executed; 
in another, the title princess presents potential suitors with three riddles, having those who fail to correctly 
answer them executed. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer of  
Tosca 
 and  
Turnadot 
. 
ANSWER: Giacomo  
Puccini 
[10] These three one-act Puccini operas are often performed together. They include  
Gianni Schicchi Suor 
,  
Angelica 
, and  
Il Tabarro 
. 
ANSWER:  
Il  Trittico 
 [or  
The  Triptych 
] 
[10] In this Puccini opera, the title character leaves Des Grieux to live with Geronte, but is later sent to 
New Orleans after changing her mind again. She dies in the arms of Des Grieux while trying to cross a 
desert without any water. 
ANSWER:  
Manon Lescaut 
088-12-59-09212  
13. Euripides drew on a counter-myth about this woman in which it is not her but an apparition made from 
clouds which is taken to Troy and fought over. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this wife of Menelaus, whose kidnapping by Paris sparked the Trojan War. 
ANSWER:  
Helen 
 of Troy [or  
Helen 
 of Sparta] 
[10] In the play  
Helen, 
 the title character is actually taken by the gods to this kingdom, where she narrowly 
escapes marriage to Theoclymenus. In real life, the syncretic god Serapis was worshiped here after its 
conquest by Alexander. 
ANSWER:  
Egypt 
[10] In a myth often depicted in art, Menelaus threatened to kill Helen during the sack of Troy, but spared 
her after she killed her husband and performed this other action. 
ANSWER:  
showed him her breasts 
 [or equivalents like  
flashing him 
; prompt on  
begging for her life 
; 
prompt on  
stripping 
; do not accept \"getting naked\"] 
121-12-59-09213  
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  10 of 13 
14. This poem notes that “if it comes to slaughter, you will do your work on water.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem, which describes a regiment mistreating the title character, who provides them with 
water. At the end of this work, that character saves the narrator’s life before being killed, prompting the 
narrator to say, “You’re a better man than I am.” 
ANSWER: “ 
Gunga Din 
” 
[10] “Gunga Din” is a poem by this English author, whose works are frequently set in Asia. He also wrote  
The Jungle Book 
 and  
Kim. 
ANSWER: Joseph Rudyard  
Kipling 
[10] In this Kipling poem, which was published in  
Barrack-Room Ballads, 
 the narrator is “by the old 
Moulmein Pagoda” and hears temple-bells inviting him to “come you back to” the title location, where 
“the dawn comes up like thunder.” 
ANSWER: “ 
Mandalay 
” 
052-12-59-09214  
15. This condition is caused by mechanical solidarity partly because relationships become rare. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this state of “normlessness,” or of a lack of social norms. In Emile Durkheim's  
Suicide, 
 it is 
described as “a rule that is a lack of rule.” 
ANSWER:  
anomie 
[10] Anomie is the cause of criminal behavior according to this theory of criminology developed by Robert 
Merton. 
ANSWER:  
strain 
 theory 
[10] Durkheim contrasts this type of suicide with the anomic type. This type of suicide occurs when 
someone is overregulated and finds their future and desires blocked by oppression. 
ANSWER:  
fatalistic 
149-12-59-09215  
16. For 10 points each, answer the following about stolen art. 
[10] A bronze  
Reclining Figure 
 sculpture by this English artist was stolen in 2005 and probably melted 
down for Chinese electrical components. In addition to reclining figures, this artist also made several 
sculptures with holes in them. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Moore 
[10] Vincenzo Peruggia stole the  
Mona Lisa 
 from this museum in an attempt to bring it back to Italy. This 
museum is in Paris. 
ANSWER: the  
Louvre 
[10] In 2007, this museum returned to Greece several classical sculptures that were illegally obtained under 
former antiquities curator Marion True. Its \"Villa\" contains many Greek and Roman antiquities, while its 
\"Center\" contains Van Gogh's  
Irises 
 and Ensor's  
Christ's Entry into Brussels 
. 
ANSWER: J. Paul  
Getty 
 Museum 
003-12-59-09216  
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  11 of 13 
17. The basic unit of this tissue is divided into A and I bands and contains thick and thin filaments. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this type of tissue that comes in smooth, skeletal and cardiac forms, whose repeating unit is 
called the sarcomere. 
ANSWER:  
muscle 
[10] This motor protein found in muscle is released from its bound state to actin through ATP hydrolysis, 
thereby triggering muscle contraction. 
ANSWER:  
myosin 
[10] During muscle contraction, calcium ions are released and later pumped back into this structure which 
contains ion release channels. 
ANSWER:  
sarcoplasmic reticulum 
064-12-59-09217  
18. Answer the following about the literary genre known as “New Journalism,” which combined 
journalism with literary devices found in fictional works, for 10 points each. 
[10] Along with E. W. Johnson, this author edited a collection titled  
The New Journalism. 
 He told the story 
of the Merry Pranksters in  
The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test 
 and also wrote a fictional book dramatizing 
“yuppie” angst titled  
The Bonfire of the Vanities. 
ANSWER: Tom  
Wolfe 
 Jr. 
[10] Another author who used New Journalism was Hunter S. Thompson, who wrote a book about Raoul 
Duke going to this southwest city, where he encounters the title “fear and loathing.” 
ANSWER: Las  
Vegas 
[10] One of the first pieces of New Journalism was a 1966  
Esquire 
 article by Gay Talese, profiling this 
man, who was said to have “a cold.” Talese wrote a profile of this celebrity without ever actually 
interviewing him. 
ANSWER: Frank  
Sinatra 
 [or Francis Albert  
Sinatra 
] 
052-12-59-09218  
19. Answer these questions about Basil II, a prominent Eastern Roman emperor of the Macedonian 
dynasty, for 10 points each. 
[10] Basil II led brutal campaigns against this Eastern European people, led at the time by Tsar Samuel, for 
three decades. Their modern nation was defined by the Treaty of San Stefano. 
ANSWER:  
Bulgar 
s [or  
Bulgarian 
s] 
[10] Basil formed this personal unit from thousands of men of Viking stock sent by Kievan Rus; it lasted 
for centuries. Members of this unit saved Basil's life during a Bulgar ambush at the Gates of Trajan. 
ANSWER:  
Varangian 
 Guard [or Tagma ton  
Varangon 
] 
[10] This 1014 victory for Basil allowed a full Roman annexation of Bulgaria to follow. In its aftermath, 
Basil allegedly blinded almost 15,000 prisoners. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Kleidion 
 [or  
Clytium 
] 
104-12-59-09219  
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  12 of 13 
20. During this man's trial, Father Peter Whelan testified on his behalf. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Swiss immigrant and commandant at the Andersonville prison camp who was executed in 
1865 for war crimes. He was one of only two men executed for war crimes during the Civil War. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Wirz 
 [or Heinrich Hartmann  
Wirz 
] 
[10] Wirz asked this President for clemency, but never heard back from him. This man's policy of a more 
lenient Reconstruction earned him the enmity of Radical Republicans, who pushed for his impeachment. 
ANSWER:  ndrew  
A Johnson 
 [prompt on  
Johnson 
] 
[10] Johnson was eventually impeached after he appointed Lorenzo Thomas to this position in February 
1868. Thomas was appointed to replace a longtime nemesis, Edwin Stanton. 
ANSWER:  
Secretary of War 
 [do not accept \"Secretary of Defense\"] 
052-12-59-09220  
21. This man was the target of the July Plot, which was codenamed Operation Valkyrie. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this leader of the Third Reich who committed suicide alongside Eva Braun at the end of World 
War II. 
ANSWER: Adolf  
Hitler 
[10] A Danish king of this name, the third from the House of Glucksburg and tenth overall, gave a curt 
reply to Hitler's birthday telegram, which prompted the \"Telegram crisis.\" That king of this name dismissed 
his government at the end of the Easter Crisis. 
ANSWER:  
Christian 
 X 
[10] This group, founded by Hans Scholl and named for a type of flower, was a non-violent resistance 
group in Nazi Germany that was centered at the University of Munich. This group's Leaflet 6 was dropped 
by Allied aircraft over Germany. 
ANSWER:  
White Rose 
 [or die  
Weisse Rose 
] 
149-12-59-09221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 9     Page  13 of 13 
