VHSL Regular Season 
Round 19 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This vessel was initially dispatched in response to rioting by the supporters of Valeriano Weyler y Nicolau. This vessel was 
commanded by Charles Sigsbee. One theory regarding this vessel's most famous event considers actions in Bunker A16. This ship 
was the subject of Hyman Rickover's 1976 investigation that echoed the findings of Del Peral and De Salas that a coal bunker 
caused its demise. A call to \"remember\" this vessel was rhymed with \"To hell with Spain!\" in the \"yellow\" press following its 
destruction. For 10 points, name this ship that exploded in Havana harbor in 1898, sparking the Spanish-American War. 
ANSWER:  the USS  
Maine 
 [prompt on  
ACR-1 
] 
026-09-2-04101 
2. This composer opened the second part of an oratorio work with the movement \"I went to sleep,\" and that piece also contains the 
movement \"Jesu, Maria, I am near death.\"  He was inspired by a visit to Alassio to compose his overture  
In the South 
, and he 
depicted his friends in movements like \"C.A.E\" and \"Nimrod\" in another work.  He also wrote a march that contains the  
Trio 
\"Land of Hope and Glory,\" in addition to composing an oratorio based on a Cardinal Neuman poem,  
The Dream of Gerontius 
. For 
10 points, name this Brit who composed the  
Engima Variations 
 in addition to the  
Pomp and Circumstance Marches 
. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Elgar 
026-09-2-04102 
3. At one point in this novel, the protagonist plays jazz at the club Onion Cellar, where the customers peel onions and weep for 
cathartic effects. Earlier, the protagonist of this work claims that he is Jesus and leads the Dusters in stealing government supplies 
from offices. In this work, Agnes dies from eating fish obsessively and Alfred dies by swallowing a Nazi party pin. Like the clown 
Bebra, the protagonist of this work refuses to grow past age three remains a dwarf. For 10 points, Oskar Matzerath constantly 
holds the title instrument in what first work of the Danzig Trilogy, written by Günter Grass? 
ANSWER:    
The  Tin Drum 
 [ 
Die  Blechtrommel 
] 
034-09-2-04103 
4. This philosopher divided his first major work into sections examining passions, morals and understanding, and titled it  
A 
Treatise of Human Nature 
. In another work, he investigates the possibility of singular events contradicting laws of nature in a 
section title \"Of Miracles,\" a work that Kant credited as waking him from his \"dogmatic slumber.\" The author of  
An Enquiry 
Concerning Human Understanding 
, for 10 points, name this Scottish empiricist philosopher. 
ANSWER:  David  
Hume 
049-09-2-04104 
5. After a border incident in disputed African territory, this leader started a war which included the taking of Addis Ababa and led 
to the exile of the Ethiopian emperor, Haile Selassie. This man allied his country to Germany with the Pact of Steel. This man 
came to power after organizing a march that led to his becoming prime minister under Victor Emmanuel III, with that march 
involving this man's Blackshirts. For 10 points, name this man who claimed to make the trains run on time, the fascist dictator of 
Italy during World War II. 
ANSWER:  Benito Amilcare Andrea  
Mussolini 
023-09-2-04105 
6. Peter Shor developed an algorithm that does activity, which would nullify RSA's usefulness; that algorithm performs in 
polynomial time. The Gauss-Jordan method can be used in part to perform the \"LU\" type of this. For 10 points, name this activity 
that can be done on a polynomial with a perfect square discriminant, which for the number 49 would produce 7 and 7. 
ANSWER:   
factorization 
 (accept word forms) 
033-09-2-04106 
7. In one novel by this author, Mary Scudder is loved by Dr. Hopkins. This author of  
Dred: A Story of the Great Dismal Swamp 
and  
The Minister’s Wooing 
 wrote about Topsy being educated in another work. A novel by this author includes Eva, who is saved 
by the title character. This author included a scene where Eliza jumps over ice floes on the Ohio River to reach freedom in that 
work. Simon Legree beats the title character of this author’s bestseller to death. For 10 points, name this author of the anti-slavery 
novel  
Uncle Tom’s Cabin 
. 
ANSWER:    Harriet Beecher  
Stowe 
 [or Catharine  
Stowe 
; or Harriet Elizabeth  
Beecher 
] 
027-09-2-04107 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 19     Page  1 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This artist depicted six black-clad members of a clothmaker's guild in his painting The Syndics. This artist depicted a 
philosopher wearing a gold chain resting his hand on a sculpture of the author of The Iliad in Aristotle Contemplating the Bust of 
Homer. This artist also painted a surgeon demonstating the muscles and tendons on the arm of a cadaver and the company of 
Franz Banning Cocq. For 10 points, name this Dutch painter of The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp and The Night Watch.  
ANSWER:  
Rembrandt 
 van Rijn 
004-09-2-04108 
9. One part of this work discusses \"natural man,\" whose care for his own life does not concern this work's title figure. The bulk of 
this work is laid out in ten \"considerations,\" one of which claims that pains and contrivances taken by wicked men will never be 
successful. This work attributes man's state on earth to the \"mere pleasure\" of God, who can cast sinners down into Hell at any 
time. A spider hanging by a thread over a fiery pit with God ready to cut the thread at any moment is one of this sermon's most 
famous images. For 10 points, name this sermon by Jonathan Edwards delivered first on July 8, 1741. 
ANSWER:     
Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God 
045-09-2-04109 
10. During this larger conflict, the rebellion of Simon the Cutler, also called the Cabochien Revolt, occurred. Another uprising 
during a lapse in this war was led by William Cale. The treaties of Bretigny and Troyes were temporary armistices during this war. 
The death of John Talbot at the Battle of Castillon is considered the ending point of this war. The aforementioned Jacquerie 
occurred during this conflict, as did the uprising of Owen Glendower and Henry Hotspur against Henry V. For 10 points, name 
this medieval conflict between England and France. 
ANSWER:    
Hundred Years 
 War [prompt on  
Armagnac-Burgundian 
 Civil War until \"Mello\"] 
035-09-2-04110 
11. One important metabolic pathway named for a compound containing this element generates ornithine and its namesake 
substance, urea. Pyrimidine and purine bases, such as adenine and thymine, are often given a name that reflects their containing 
this element. Bacteria fix this element by forming ammonia. For 10 points, name this element found in the amino group of amino 
acids, whose diatomic form is an inert gas. 
ANSWER:   
nitrogen 
 [or  ] 
N 
022-09-2-04111 
12. This author's wrote a story about the painter Piskaryov and the Lieutenant Pirogov living on the title street of St. Petersburg. 
This author also wrote a short story about the insane Poprishchin. In addition to “Nevsky Prospect” and “Diary of a Madman,” 
this writer wrote about the one-eyed tailor Petrovich and “the person of consequence” who is unwilling to help with Akaky 
Akakievich’s misfortune in his story “The Overcoat.” He also told told of Pavel Chichikov's attempts to buy the legal rights to 
dead serfs in another of his novels. For 10 points, name this Russian author of  
The Inspector General 
 and  
Dead Souls 
. 
ANSWER:     Nikolay  
Gogol 
034-09-2-04112 
13. This man dialogued with Hulrych Zwingli at the Marburg Colloquy. This man was protected by Frederick the Wise and Phillip 
of Hesse. This man created the first German translation of the Bible. This man debated Johann Tetzel after Tetzel visited this 
man's hometown. This man was called by Holy Roman Emperor Charles V to the Diet of Worms (VORMS). This man was a 
friend of Philip Melanchthon. This man attacked the idea of indulgences when he posted his  
The Ninety-Five Theses 
 on the church 
door of Wittenberg. For 10 points, name this early leader of the Protestant Reformation. 
ANSWER:  Martin  
Luther 
015-09-2-04113 
14. One of these devices named for Persoz can measure a sample's hardness.  The double type of this object is a classic example of 
chaotic behavior. A useful approximation when working with these objects involves assuming that \"sin theta equals theta.\" These 
objects have period approximately equal to \"two pi times the square root of quantity length over gravitational acceleration.\"  These 
devices exhibit simple harmonic motion, and one of these was used to show the rotation of the earth by Leon Foucault. For 10 
points, name these devices consisting of a weight suspended from a pivot. 
ANSWER:  
pendulum 
s 
028-09-2-04114 
15. This author's musically inspired novels include  
Napoleon Symphony 
 and  
Mozart and the Wolf Gang 
. This twentieth century 
novelist wrote a book subtitled \"A Story of Shakespeare's Love Life\" in  
Nothing Like the Sun 
. One of this man's works focuses on 
a patron of the Korova Milk Bar. That main character of a work by this man undergoes the Ludovico technique, which causes him 
to hate Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and abandon ultraviolence. For 10 points, name this man who wrote about Alex DeLarge's 
droogs in the work  
A Clockwork Orange 
. 
ANSWER:   John Anthony  
Burgess 
 Wilson [or Joseph  
Kell 
] 
033-09-2-04115 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 19     Page  2 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 19 
Directed Round 
1A. Name the physical quantity that, for a rigid object, is equal to the moment of inertia times the angular velocity. 
ANSWER:    
angular momentum 
1B. Name the movie trilogy in which Neo, played by Keanu Reeves, realizes he is \"the One\" and fights some Agents, as directed 
by the Wachowski brothers. 
ANSWER:    
The  Matrix 
 series or trilogy 
2A. This program ran out of money in under a week, leading to another $2 billion being approved. Name this government plan 
that gives a credit for getting a more fuel-efficient car. 
ANSWER:    ar  llowance  ebate  ystem [accept  
C A R S Cash for Clunkers 
 or  
Cash for Guzzlers 
] 
2B. Karl Landsteiner discovered the A, B, O system used to denote what classification? 
ANSWER:  
blood group 
s [or  
blood type 
s]  
3A. These are often formed within supercells. Name this destructive force that forms a spiral shape from the ground to a cloud and 
whose damage is measured by the Fujita scale. 
ANSWER:    
tornado 
es 
3B. Name the female scientist who received the Nobel Prize in both Physics and Chemistry for her discoveries of radioactivity, 
radium, and polonium. 
ANSWER:   Marie Sklodowska  
Curie 
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. Find the equation of the line with slope 6 through the point (-4, -8). 
ANSWER:    
y+8=6(x+4) 
 [or  
y=6x+16 
 or equivalents] 
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve for x: 2(3x + 4) = 4x - 6. 
ANSWER:   x =  
-7 
5A. It is the case used with words like I, he, or she. Name this case that has a predicate form and marks the subject of the sentence. 
ANSWER:    
nominative 
 case 
5B. Name the country where journalists Laura Ling and Euna Lee where released after a trip by Bill Clinton to Pyongyang. 
ANSWER:    
Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
 or  
North Korea 
 [accept  
DPRK 
 or  
Choson Minjujuui In'min 
Konghwaguk 
; prompt on  
Korea 
; do not accept  
Republic of Korea 
] 
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A map has a scale with three-quarters of an inch representing ten miles.  If two 
places are four and a half inches apart on the map, how far apart are they in real life? 
ANSWER:     miles 
60 
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Multiply: three-eights times eight and a sixth. 
ANSWER:    
3 1/16 
 [or  
49/16 
 or  
3.0625 
] 
7A. Name the European country whose four official languages are French, Italian, German, and Romansh. 
ANSWER:    
Switzerland 
 or  
Swiss Confederation 
7B. It was originally supposed to portray the artist himself in a greater work, The Gates of Hell. Name this Auguste Rodin bronze 
sculpture that displays a contemplative man. 
ANSWER:    
The  Thinker 
 or  
Le  Penseur 
8A. Dresden is known as the \"Florence on\" this river. Name this European waterway that flows from the Czech Republic through 
Germany and Hamburg to the North Sea. 
ANSWER:    
Elbe 
 River 
8B. Poems in this style include Homer's The Odyssey and The Iliad. Name this form of poetry which focuses on heroic 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 19     Page  3 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
achievements. 
ANSWER:    
epic 
 poetry 
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. If you can get a hamburger with or without each of the following condiments: 
ketchup, mustard, pickles, onions, lettuce, and mayonnaise, then in how many ways can you order your hamburger? 
ANSWER:    
64 
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the total of the measures of all the interior angles in a regular polygon with 
18 sides? 
ANSWER:    
2880 
 degrees 
10A. The first installment of this video game series was subtitled  
Combat Evolved 
. Name this first-person shooter about Master 
Chief, who is almost always fighting the Covenant or the Flood. 
ANSWER:    
Halo 
10B. Name the anthropologist who studied the Kula Ring and the Trobriand Islanders and who wrote  
Argonauts of the Western 
Pacific 
. 
ANSWER:   Bronislaw Kasper  
Malinowski 
023-09-2-04116 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 19     Page  4 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 19 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (TWO-b-THREE-a) allows the protein fibrinogen to bind these cells together. A disease affecting 
glycoprotein Ib on these cells causes them to be giant and is named for Bernard and Soulier. The deficiency of von Willebrand 
factor causes these cells to lose effectiveness in performing their function, which is activated by the protein thrombin. They form 
by budding off of megakaryocytes in the bone marrow. For 10 points, name these cells that are also called thrombocytes, blood 
cells that aid in clotting. 
ANSWER:   
platelet 
s [or  
thrombocyte 
s before mentioned] 
026-09-2-04117 
2. While in the senate, this man allied with Burton Wheeler to draft a Transportation Act. This man began his career in the 
political machine of Thomas Pendergast. This {resident decried the \"Do-Nothing Congress.\" This man vetoed the Taft-Hartley 
labor bill. George Kennan and Dean Acheson were largely responsible for creating a policy named for this man. That doctrine 
named for this man adopted a method of containment for fighting communist expansion. This President defeated Thomas Dewey 
to win a second term. For 10 points, name this Democrat who succeeded FDR as president. 
ANSWER:  Harry S  
Truman 
028-09-2-04118 
3. This figure grew up on the island of Seriphos and was sent on his most famous mission by Polydectes. As an infant he was cast 
into the sea in a chest by Acrisius, whom he later killed with a discus. He defeated a sea monster that plagued Ethiopia and 
thereafter married Andromeda. In his most famous adventure, he received winged sandals and the cap of Hades from the Graiae 
after stealing their one tooth and eye. For 10 points, name this Greek hero who slayed Medusa. 
ANSWER:   
Perseus 
030-09-2-04119 
4. Thorstein Veblen wrote a work \"On the Barbarian Status of\" this group of people. John Stuart Mill argued that one of the \"chief 
hindrances\" to progress was the titular \"Subjection of\" this group of people. Mary Wollestonecraft argued for equality in civil life 
for this group in \"Vindication of the Rights of\" this group of people. Lucy Stone and Lucretia Mott argued for the right for this 
group of people to vote. For 10 points, name this group of people, with whom feminism is concerned. 
ANSWER:   
women 
005-09-2-04120 
5. This man wrote a semi-autobiographical work with a main character based on himself named Jack Duluoz. This author of  
Visions of Cody 
 wrote about his relationship with Mardou Fox in  
The Subterraneans 
. The \"rucksack saints\" Ray Smith and Japhy 
are the focus of this man's  
The Dharma Bums 
. Another of his novels sees the protagonist end up with Terry in Mexico after 
meeting Ed Dunkel and Denver D. Doll on a trip from Denver to California shared with Dean Moriarty. For 10 points, name this 
author who wrote of Sal Paradise's journey in a fictionalization of the Beat Generation, his novel  
On the Road 
. 
ANSWER:   Jack  
Kerouac 
 [or Jean-Louis Lebris de  
Kerouac 
] 
030-09-2-04121 
6. In Australia, this food item is stuffed with oysters to form a dish called \"Carpetbag.\" Another variant of this food item is eaten 
mostly in Scotland and is called the Pope's Eye. Controversy exists over whether this food can properly be used to make 
Chateaubriand (SHAT-oh-bree-AHND). Most Mexican dishes that are based on this food employ its \"skirt\" variety. The filet 
mignon is included in the Porterhouse or T-bone kind of this food. For 10 points, identify this cut of beef, which can be combined 
with lobster or shrimp in a \"surf and turf.\" 
ANSWER:    
steak 
019-09-2-04122 
7. Along with the fourth power of charge, this property appears in the numerator of the formula for the Rydberg constant. One unit 
used in measurements of this property is the Dalton. A \"defect\" in this property is the difference between the observed value and 
the theoretical value, which is calculated by summing this property for each proton and neutron. For 10 points, give this property, 
which for a mole of carbon-12 has a value of twelve grams. 
ANSWER:  
mass 
 [or atomic  
mass 
; accept rest  
mass 
 of an electron before \"Dalton\"] 
003-09-2-04123 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 19     Page  5 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This man's advisors included Rustem and Sokolli. This man employed the architect Sinan. This ruler had his son Mustapha 
executed. This man's corsair Barbarossa made the Ottoman fleet a powerful force. This ruler conquered Belgrade in 1521. This 
man expelled the Knights Hospitalers from Rhodes in 1522. For 10 points, name this Ottoman sultan who won a decisive victory 
against the Hungarians at the Battle of Mohacs in 1526, and who was the son of Selim I. 
ANSWER:   
Suleiman I 
 [or  
Suleiman the Magnificent 
; or  
Suleiman the Lawgiver 
; or  
Suleiman Muhtesem 
; or  
Suleiman 
Kanuni 
] 
030-09-2-04124 
9. In the same act that this piece appears in, the thirty-three bogatyrs are introduced, and the Swan-Bird delivers an admonishment. 
A two-octave chromatic descent characterizes this work written in A-minor, and is almost exclusively sixteenth notes. In the 
middle of this piece, a pizzicato A minor arpeggio takes over, and the already fast chromatic motions around E increase in octave. 
This piece depicts Prince Guidon, the protagonist of The Tale of Tsar Saltan, in an insect form. For 10 points, name this most 
famous work by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov. 
ANSWER: \" 
Flight of the Bumblebee 
\" 
020-09-2-04125 
10. In one poem, this atheist declares that although he does not believe in heaven, he believes in a heaven for all dogdom. Another 
work by this poet begins “The memory of you emerges from the night around me” and repeats the line “in everything you sank!” 
This poet's erotic works include “The Body of a Woman” and “I Like for You to Be Still.” “The Liberators” and “The Sand 
Betrayed” are sections in this man's work intended as a poetic history of the Americas, a collection that contains his “The Heights 
of Macchu Picchu.” For 10 points, name this Chilean author of  
Canto General 
 and  
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair 
? 
ANSWER:   Pablo  
Neruda 
 [or Neftalí Ricardo  
Reyes 
 Basoalto] 
034-09-2-04126 
11. Faa Di Bruno's Formula gives an explicit formula for one type of this operation. Operations of this type for a vector function 
form the entries of the Jacobian matrix, and operations of this type form the entries of the gradient. L'Hospital's Rule uses a 
quotient of these operations to calculate limits. For composite functions, this operation is applied using the chain rule.  This 
operation finds the slope of a curve's tangent line, and is defined as the \"limit as h goes to zero of 'f of x plus h' minus 'f of x', all 
over h.\" For 10 points, name this basic operation of calculus, the inverse of the integral. 
ANSWER:  
derivative 
028-09-2-04127 
12. One figure targeted during this rebellion was the general John Neville, who was sent to oversee the collection of taxes. One 
man involved in putting down this rebellion was \"Light Horse Harry\" Lee, who had earlier served in the American Revolution. 
The militia forces gathered to put down this rebellion were led by the president at the time, George Washington, although no 
resistance was met. For 10 points, name this rebellion in western Pennsylvania that started after the United States government 
passed an excise tax on a certain form of alcohol. 
ANSWER:   
Whiskey 
 Rebellion 
023-09-2-04128 
13. Animals extant during this period include  
Edaphosaurus 
 and  
Dimetrodon 
, and the dominant lifeforms during this period were 
therapsids, the direct ancestors of mammals. Gymnosperms became the dominant form of plant life during this period. During this 
period, the supercontinent of Pangaea was formed. This was the last period of the Paleozoic Era. For 10 points, name this period 
lasting from approximately 290 to 248 million years ago, which ended with the largest mass extinction ever recorded on Earth. 
ANSWER:  
Permian 
 Period 
003-09-2-04129 
14. In one scene of this novel, the protagonist strikes a woman on the face with a camera, capsizing their canoe. The protagonist of 
this novel falls in love with Hortense Briggs while serving as a bellboy in a Kansas City hotel. The protagonist of this novel rides 
in a car that strikes a child, after which this novel shifts scenes to New York. In New York, the protagonist of this work gets a job 
in a factory under his uncle and fails to procure an abortion after impregnating the poor farmgirl Roberta Alden. This work ends 
with Roberta's murder at the hands of Clyde Griffiths. For 10 points, name this Theodore Dreiser novel. 
ANSWER:    
An  American Tragedy 
020-09-2-04130 
15. In this nation, the Forum for the Restoration of Democracy was formed by opposition leader Oginga Odinga. This nation's 
government tried to cover up the murder of Josiah Kariuki in 1975. One leader of this nation appointed Richard Leakey to head 
this nation's civil service. Hundreds of Kikuyu were killed in riots following the 1997 reelection in this country of Daniel arap 
Moi. This nation was the site of the Mau Mau uprising. For 10 points, name this country whose first president was Jomo Kenyatta. 
ANSWER:  Republic of  
Kenya 
030-09-2-04131 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 19     Page  6 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 19 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This denomination believes that Jesus returned during the \"Millenial Dawn\" of 1874. This group believes that 144,000 of its 
members will be the co-rulers of Earth following the establishment of the Kingdom of God.  This group avoids using the words 
\"minister\" or \"church\" and does not vote or salute flags. Since its founding by Charles Taze Russell, this group has believed that 
Leviticus 3:17 prohibits blood transfusions. For 10 points, name this group, which meets in Kingdom Halls and distributes  
The 
Watchtower 
  as part of its active campaign of evangelism. 
ANSWER:   
Jehovah's Witness 
es 
019-09-2-04132 
2. This island's Baliem Valley is home to the Dani people. The Bismarck Range in the eastern part of this island contains Mount 
Wilhelm. Lorentz National Park, which can be found on this island, contains the Asmat Swamp. This island's Puncak Jaya is the 
highest island peak in the world. Port Moresby is the capital of a nation found entirely on this island; the western part of this island 
is the province of Irian Jaya. For 10 points, name this second largest island in the world, which is split between Indonesia and a 
nation that precedes this island's name with Papua. 
ANSWER:   
New Guinea 
036-09-2-04133 
3. One character in this story can only look down at his work, and refuses a celestial crown that is offered to him. In addition to 
describing the Man with the Muck Rake, this work sees the protagonist visit the Valley of Humiliation. This work includes 
characters such as Judge Hate-Good, who orders the execution of Faithful at Vanity Fair. The protagonist of this work encounters 
characters such as Sloth and Hypocrisy en route to the Celestial City. For 10 points, name this seventeenth century allegorical 
novel with a protagonist named Christian, written by John Bunyan. 
ANSWER:    
Pilgrim's Progress 
038-09-2-04134 
4. The Karl Fischer type is intended to detect small volumes of water, while organic amides often undergo this process in a 
solution of glacial acetic acid. The zeta potential type of this process is carried out on colloids, while complexometric ones may 
use chelating agents like EDTA. This process generates a curve with multiple inflection points, called equivalence points, for 
polyprotic acids. For 10 points, name this process by which the concentration of a known volume of a given acid or base may be 
found by neutralizing a stock solution of acid or base. 
ANSWER:  
titration 
 [accept word forms] 
022-09-2-04135 
5. The relationship of the  
Pisaster 
 organism in this phylum to the California mussel was used by Robert Paine to define the term 
\"keystone species.\" These organisms possess a system that allows them to feed and move that is based on a central hydrocoel, 
from which emerge ambulacra, which lead to this phylum's characteristic \"tube feet.\" In addition to their water vascular system, 
organisms in this phylum possess radial symmetry. This phylum encompasses such organisms as crinoids, cucumbers, urchins, 
and sand dollars. For 10 points, name this phylum that contains starfish, a phylum named for the \"spiny skin\" of its members. 
ANSWER:  
echinodermata 
 [accept  
echinoderm 
s] 
026-09-2-04136 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 19     Page  7 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
