Colonia 2014 
Round 1 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. In diagramming a heat engine on a plot partially named for this value, it is generally shown along the 
y-axis. At a given mass, a gas that follows Gay-Lussac's (GEH LOO-sack's) law will have this value 
directly proportional to the gas's temperature. This value is kept constant for a gas when considering the 
relationship of Charles's Law between temperature and volume, and this value is also kept constant in an 
isobaric process. Name this value measured in Pascals and calculated by taking force over area. 
ANSWER:  
pressure 
023--105-01101 
2. In 2012, this man ordered the bombing of a Sudanese arms factory. He has called Hassan Rouhani a 
\"wolf in sheep's clothing\" at the U.N. He gave a wildly applauded speech to the U.S. Congress in 2011 
where he refused to accept the pre-1967 borders for his country. His government now includes Tzipi Livni, 
and his defense secretary is Ehud Barak of the Labor Party. Name this Likud (lick-OOD) Party leader and 
current Prime Minister of Israel. 
ANSWER: Benjamin \"Bibi\"  
Netanyahu 
027--105-01102 
3. These things are divided into monolithic and micro types, the latter of which is exemplified by the 
as-yet-unfinished GNU Hurd (NEW HERD). Programs request service from these things by executing a 
system call. A BSD-based example of these things was originally used in OS X. The Tanenbaum-Torvalds 
debate concerned the implementation of a type of these things for Linux. Identify this component of an 
operating system that serves as an interface between hardware and software applications. 
ANSWER:  
kernel 
 [prompt on  
operating system 
] 
081--105-01103 
4. This philosopher discussed the painting \"A Pair of Shoes\" by van Gogh in his article  
The Origin of the 
Work of Art. 
 He examined another German philosopher in  
Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics. 
 In 
another book, he introduces the idea of a \"hermeneutic circle\" and discusses the relationship that human 
perception creates with the world, composed of the words for \"to be\" and \"there.\" Name this German 
philosopher who explained \"dasein\" (DAH-sine) in  
Being and Time 
 and attracted controversy for his Nazi 
sympathies. 
ANSWER: Martin  
Heidegger 
127--105-01104 
5. During the Trojan War, Diomedes (die-OH-med-eez) crushed this man's hip with a stone. This man's 
crew saves Achaemenides (uh-kie-MEN-ih-deez) from the island of the Cyclopes. This hero kills the 
Rutulian king Turnus to avenge Evander's son Pallas. He visits his father in the underworld by using a 
golden bough after abandoning the Carthaginian queen Dido. This son of Anchises (un-KIE-seez) is 
celebrated as an ancient founder of Rome. Name this hero whose travels were chronicled in a namesake 
epic by Virgil. 
ANSWER:  
Aeneas 
186--105-01105 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  1 of 18 
6. The song \"Non, je ne regrette rien\" is featured prominently in this film. Its protagonist is chased through 
the streets of Mombasa by agents of Cobol Engineering. That same character in this movie tasks Ariadne, 
played by Ellen Page, with drawing a maze in two minutes that takes one minute to solve. Throughout this 
movie, Cobb, played by Leonardo DiCaprio, is stalked by the projection of his dead wife Mal. Name this 
2010 Christopher Nolan movie about dreams. 
ANSWER:  
Inception 
225--105-01106 
7. This character is first described by Richard Enfield, who mentions him ostentatiously signing a check. 
This man’s suicide note is read by the lawyer Utterson, and Dr. Lanyon tries while trying to save him. He 
tramples a young girl without mercy and uses his cane to murder Sir Danvers Carew. This man eventually 
no longer requires a potion in order to transform into his fiendish counterpart. Name this scientist invented 
by Robert Louis Stevenson who transforms into the evil Mr. Hyde. 
ANSWER: Henry  
Jekyll 
 [or  
Henry 
 Jekyll; accept  
Hyde 
 until mentioned; accept  
Edward 
 until “Hyde”] 
052--105-01107 
8. The second verse of one of this man's songs states that \"Mermaids are chanting the wild lorelei.\" In 
another of his songs a man admonishes a woman, \"...don't you cry for me/For I come from Alabama with a 
banjo on my knee.\" This man wrote many songs for the Christy's Minstrels, including one traditionally 
sung before an annual event at Churchill Downs. Another of his songs includes the refrain, \"Doo dah, doo 
dah.\" Name this American songwriter of \"My Old Kentucky Home,\" \"Camptown Races,\" and \"Oh! 
Susanna.\" 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Foster 
030--105-01108 
9. In a Poisson (PWA-sohn) probability mass function, this function appears the denominator. An extension 
of this function, which has an output of square root of pi for the value one-half, is the gamma function. For 
large values, it is well-approximated with Stirling's formula. This function appears in the denominator of 
each term of a Taylor series. When choosing k objects from n objects, this function is applied to n in the 
numerator as well as to n and n minus k in the denominator. Name this function represented by an 
exclamation mark. 
ANSWER:  
factorial 
121--105-01109 
10. This artist depicted Benjamin Franklin holding a key in his hand while a group of boys fly a kite in a 
stormy background. This artist painted many portraits of his patron, King George III, and he served as the 
second president of the Royal Academy. Another depiction by this man shows a Native American soldier 
kneeling near a dying British commander during the Battle of Quebec. Name this American painter of  
The 
Death of General Wolfe. 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
West 
227--105-01110 
11. Constantin Brancusi's sculptures with this title are shaped nearly like the block-shaped material that 
they were sculpted from. Another sculpture of this name shows one person holding a book in his left hand 
and covering the face of the other. A sculpture of this name depicting Paolo and Francesca and originally 
meant for  
The Gates of Hell 
 was made by Auguste Rodin. Give the common title of these artworks, which 
all show two people engaged in a display of affection. 
ANSWER:  
The  Kiss 
140--105-01111 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  2 of 18 
12. This novel asserts that “a king is history’s slave” in a chapter outlining the author’s theory of history. 
This novel’s protagonist leaves his wife Helene and wins a duel against Dolokhov. In this book, Prince 
Andrei survives the Battle of Austerlitz. At this novel’s conclusion, Pierre decides against assassinating 
Napoleon and winds up marrying Natasha Rostov. Name this giant novel written by Leo Tolstoy. 
ANSWER:  
War and Peace 
 [or  
Voyna i Mir 
] 
190--105-01112 
13. A character in this poem is swallowed by Vipunen (VEE-poo-nen), from whom he extorts the magic 
words necessary to build a boat without using his hands. The earth is created at the beginning of this poem 
when a bird's nest falls off the knee of Ilmatar (ILL-ma-tar), who was impregnated by the wind and 
becomes the mother of Vainamoinen (VINE-a-MOY-nen). Later in this poem, Ilmarinen (ILL-ma-ree-nen) 
forges the Sampo. Name this national epic of Finland. 
ANSWER: the  
Kalevala 
 (KAH-leh-VAH-lah) 
142--105-01113 
14. Emile Durkheim's  
Elementary Forms of the Religious Life 
 used a test of social role to distinguish this 
phenomenon from religion. It was the last of three phenomena studied \"among the Azande\" 
(uh-ZAHN-day) by Edward Evans-Pritchard, who outlined a type of \"thinking\" known by this term, and it 
was grouped with \"science and religion\" in a Bronislaw Malinowski paper. According to James Frazer, this 
phenomenon always precedes religious belief. Identify this phenomenon of manipulating the natural world 
with incantations and rituals. 
ANSWER:  
magic 
 [or word forms] 
019--105-01114 
15. A director in this country was assassinated in 2004 for his film  
Submission, 
 criticizing Muslim society. 
The VVD party currently leads this country, despite conflict with Geert Wilders's PVV party in 2012. This 
country's Princess Margriet was born in Canada during World War II. Operation Market Garden took place 
in Germany and this country, where the International Court of Justice and International Criminal Court are 
headquartered. Two days after World War II ended, Indonesia declared independence from this country. 
Name this country where Queen Beatrix abdicated in 2013. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of the  
Netherlands 
 [or  
Holland 
; or Koninkrijk der  
Nederlanden 
] 
190--105-01115 
16. Reversible expansions and compressions that have this property constitute two stages of the Carnot 
cycle. In this type of reversible expansion, the work done equals RT times the log of the ratio of the 
volumes. For ideal gases undergoing this type of process, work is equal to the negative of heat, as these 
processes proceed with no change in internal energy or enthalpy, and pressure times volume is constant. 
Name this property possessed by phase transitions, which occur with no change in temperature. 
ANSWER:  
isothermal 
 processes [or  
constant-temperature 
 processes until \"temperature\" is read; prompt 
on  
phase transition 
s; do not accept \"adiabatic processes\"] 
190--105-01116 
17. A cathedral in this city was designed by Konstantin Thon and was started on this city's Sparrow Hills. 
Dmitry Donskoy led this city when it defeated the Tatars at the Battle of Kulikovo (koo-lee-KOH-voh). 
This city is home to the largest Orthodox cathedral in the world, the Cathedral of Christ the Savior. Ivan the 
Terrible allegedly blinded the architect of this city's eight-domed cathedral, built to honor Ivan's conquest 
of Kazan (kuh-ZON). This city was burned after Napoleon won the Battle of Borodino. Name this Russian 
city, home to St. Basil's Cathedral and the Kremlin. 
ANSWER:  
Moscow 
 [or  
Moskva 
] 
186--105-01117 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  3 of 18 
18. Chancellor Li Linfu led a series of purges during this dynasty. Buddhism was suppressed during the 
Hu-chiang (hoo-CHONG) period of this dynasty, which fought against the Abbasid Caliphate at the Battle 
of the Talas River. This dynasty was interrupted by the reign of Empress Wu Zetian. This dynasty defeated 
An Lushan's rebellion, and it was the time of poets such as Li Po and Du Fu. Name this Chinese dynasty 
founded by Emperor Gaozu (gow-ZOO) that followed the Sui (SWEE) dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Tang 
 dynasty 
227--105-01118 
19. This novel ends with a character receiving a letter reading “It is a great comfort to have you so rich” 
and requesting “a place at court.” It begins with the observation that a single man with a good fortune 
“must be in want of a wife.” The female protagonist is wooed by the foolish clergyman Mr. Collins and has 
such sisters as Lydia and Jane, who become involved with Mr. Wickham and Mr. Bingley. Name this Jane 
Austen novel about Elizabeth Bennett and Mr. Darcy. 
ANSWER:  
Pride and Prejudice 
052--105-01119 
20. One type of these events is triggered by a drop in pressure caused by increased pair-production. The 
Phillips relationship describes the light curve of another type of these events, which were used by Reiss and 
Perlmutter to show that the expansion of the universe is accelerating. Yet other types occur after core 
collapse or when a star crosses the Chandrashekar (chohn-druh-shay-KAR) limit. The Crab nebula is the 
remnant of one observed in 1054. Name these cosmic events in which a star explodes. 
ANSWER:  
supernova 
e [or  
SN 
] 
048--105-01120 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  4 of 18 
Colonia 2014 
Round 1 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. Symbols in this writing system that have developed native meanings are known as \"Kokku\" (COH-koo) 
The two ways to read this system's normal symbols are called \"on-yomi\" (AHN-yoh-mee) and \"kun-yomi\" 
(KUN-yoh-mee). This system is ideogrammatic, rather than representing words or syllables, and its name 
literally means \"Han characters,\" reflecting its origin. This one of at least three writing systems for 
Japanese consists of symbols based on Chinese characters. Identify this writing system that is not hiragana 
(HEER-uh-gah-nuh) or katakana (KAH-tuh-kah-nuh). 
ANSWER:  
Kanji 
 [prompt on  
Japanese 
 until \"on-yomi\" is read] 
147--105-01121 
2. This man posited a theory of behavior that acknowledges the influence of both social factors and the 
environment, reciprocal determinism. His best-known experiment focused on a similar area as his work  
Adolescent Aggression. 
 The experiment he designed involved adult collaborators who punched the objects 
which name the experiment, causing the study's subjects to imitate them while yelling \"sockaroo!\" Name 
this Canadian psychologist who performed the \"bobo doll\" experiment. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Bandura 
081--105-01122 
3. One musician who played this instrument included the calypso-inspired \"Saint Thomas\" on his 
influential album titled for this instrument  
Colossus. 
 This instrument was used to create \"sheets of sound\" 
on songs like the ballad \"Naima\" on the album  
Giant Steps. 
 Another player of this instrument inaugurated 
bebop along with Dizzy Gillespie and was nicknamed \"Bird.\" Name this woodwind instrument played by 
Sonny Rollins, John Coltrane, and Charlie Parker. 
ANSWER: tenor  
sax 
ophone 
020--105-01123 
4. This mountain was first climbed by Edwin James, who described seeing the blue columbine during the 
climb. Its namesake was killed in the Battle of York during the War of 1812 and had previously explored 
the west on orders of James Wilkinson. Katharine Lee Bates wrote the song \"America the Beautiful\" after 
admiring the view from this mountaintop. During the \"Fifty-Niner Gold Rush,\" miners used a slogan 
advocating this mountain \"or bust.\" Name this peak in the Rocky Mountains, which is named for an 
explorer whose first name was Zebulon. 
ANSWER:  
Pike's 
 Peak 
052--105-01124 
5. A portrait of this monarch was painted by Jean Clouet (cloo-EY). He was criticized for allying his 
country with the Ottoman Empire, the first European to do so. This king successfully invaded Italy by 
defeating Swiss pikemen at the Battle of Marignano (MAH-rin-YAH-no), but he was captured ten years 
later at Pavia (pah-VEE-uh). This monarch failed to strike an alliance with Henry VIII at the Field of the 
Cloth of Gold, but was successful in cultivating the French Renaissance. Name this Valois (val-WAH) 
King of France who often fought against Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. 
ANSWER:  
Francis I 
 [prompt on  
Francis 
] 
140--105-01125 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  5 of 18 
6. This artist painted the interior of a building with a green roof and red walls, inside which a waiter stands 
next to a billiards table. The time this artist spent in Arles led to paintings such as  
The Yellow House. 
 This 
artist painted a landscape dominated by large swirls in the center and a cypress tree on the left, both 
overlooking Saint-Remy. This artist of  
The Night Cafe 
 depicted himself with a bandaged ear in his late 
self-portraits. Name this post-Impressionist artist of  
Starry Night. 
ANSWER: Vincent  
van Gogh 
140--105-01126 
7. This man ordered the imprisonment of a man who criticized his plan for industrializing \"poor and blank\" 
lands after the Lushan conference. The Gang of Four jockeyed for power after his death. He asked citizens 
to produce steel and not farm, resulting in a great famine. He advocated the Great Leap Forward and 
declared war on intellectuals in the Cultural Revolution. Name this author of the  
Little Red Book 
 who was 
the first chairman of Communist China. 
ANSWER:  
Mao 
 Zedong 
020--105-01127 
8. This philosophical school was referred to as a \"new name for some old ways of thinking\" in a book 
written by the author of \"What is an Emotion?\" Many proponents of it were members of the Metaphysical 
Club. Texts written by proponents of this school include \"How to Make Our Ideas Clear,\"  
The Varieties of 
Religious Experience, 
 and  
Democracy and Education 
. Name this philosophical school practiced by Charles 
Sanders Peirce (PURSE), William James, and John Dewey, which values practical action. 
ANSWER:  
pragmatism 
052--105-01128 
9. A composer for this instrument collected fifty-six pieces in  
The Rhetoric of the Gods. 
 A famous piece for 
this instrument was accompanied by the lyrics \"Happy, happy, they that in hell, Know not the world's 
despite.\" This instrument developed out of an Arab instrument called the \"Ud\" introduced in the conquest 
of Spain. An English composer for this instrument wrote the song \"Flow My Tears\" and had music 
described as \"Semper Dolens,\" a pun on his name, John Dowland. Name this popular Renaissance 
instrument that was replaced by the guitar. 
ANSWER:  
lute 
s 
080--105-01129 
10. Near the end of this play, one character attacks another with a paper knife after the latter’s rant about a 
“coward holding a baby-killer in his manly arms,” prompting a third character to note, “there’s no need for 
red-hot pokers.” The protagonists of this play are army deserter Joseph Garcin (gar-SAN), the lesbian Ines, 
and Estelle, who discovers that stabbing Ines has no effect. Name this Jean-Paul Sartre (SAR-truh) play in 
which the characters realize they are dead and that “Hell is other people.” 
ANSWER:  
No Exit 
 [or  
Huis Clos 
] 
052--105-01130 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  6 of 18 
1. Tell me about politicians' families. 
[5] What current Mayor of New York has a daughter named Chiara who has struggled with substance abuse 
issues? 
ANSWER: Bill  
de Blasio 
 [or Warren  
Wilhelm 
 Jr.] 
[10] What American politician is married to an English professor named Jill and has a son named Beau 
who served in the Delaware National Guard? 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Biden 
 Jr. 
[15] Who has children with the author of a book criticizing Japanese cartoons called  
The Channel-Surfing 
Kids Are Fed-Up 
 and is currently the president of France? 
ANSWER: Francois  
Hollande 
[20] Racist remarks in June 2013 from his son embarrassed Joe Heck, a Congressman from what state 
where Sharon Angle ran for the Senate? 
ANSWER:  
Nevada 
052--105-01101 
2. Name these monarchs. 
[5] What Castilian mother of Charles V was confined to a nunnery for insanity? 
ANSWER:  
Joanna the Mad 
 [or  
Juana la Loca 
] 
[10] A monarch of what name was the only French king to be canonized? 
ANSWER:  
Louis 
 IX 
[15] What son of John I of Portugal patronized exploration of the African coast? 
ANSWER: Prince  
Henry the Navigator 
[20] What king of France was the dauphin who took the throne with the help of Joan of Arc? 
ANSWER:  
Charles VII 
 of France 
023--105-01102 
3. Name these Asian leaders. 
[5] Who was never tried for war crimes, unlike his military leaders such as Hideki Tojo, despite being 
Emperor of Japan during World War II? 
ANSWER:  
Hirohito 
 [or the  
Showa 
 Emperor] 
[10] Name the leader of the Khmer Rouge who instituted the “Year Zero” policy and referred to himself as 
“Brother Number One.” 
ANSWER: Pol  
Pot 
 [or Soloth  
Sar 
] 
[15] Who was the \"paramount leader\" of China for most of the years following the purge of the Gang of 
Four in the late 1970s and his 1997 death? 
ANSWER:  
Deng 
 Xiaoping 
[20] Which first president of Indonesia was overthrown by the 30th of September movement? 
ANSWER:  
Sukarno 
 [or Kusno  
Sosrodihardjo 
; do not accept \\"Suharto\\"] 
052--105-01103 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  7 of 18 
4. Answer the following about assassination attempts. 
[5] In what building did John Wilkes Booth shout \"Sic semper tyrannis!\" after jumping onto the stage, then 
shoot Abraham Lincoln? 
ANSWER:  
Ford's 
 Theatre 
[10] What hardscrabble President and fan of the spoils system beat Richard Lawrence with his cane after 
Lawrence tried to shoot him? 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Jackson 
[15] Which man shouted that “I am a Stalwart, and Arthur is president now!” after shooting James Garfield 
in 1881? 
ANSWER: Charles  
Guiteau 
[20] Which president was the target of assassination attempts by Lynette “Squeaky” Fromme and Sara Jane 
Moore? 
ANSWER: Gerald Rudolph  
Ford, 
 Jr. [or “Jerry” for Gerald; or Leslie Lynch  
King, 
 Jr.] 
052--105-01104 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  8 of 18 
Colonia 2014 
Round 1 
Letter N 
Letter C 
Letter R 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  9 of 18 
Letter N 
[10] Who is the narrator of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby? 
ANSWER:  
Nick 
 Carraway 
[10] What element is purified by complexing with carbon monoxide in the Mond process? 
ANSWER:  
nickel 
 [or  ] 
Ni 
[10] Who defeated the Mamluks at the Battle of the Pyramids during his 1798 to 1801 conquest of Egypt? 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon 
 Bonaparte 
[10] What aria from Puccini’s Turandot is titled in Italian as \"None shall sleep?\" 
ANSWER:  
nessun dorma 
[10] The model organism C. elegans belongs to what animal phylum? 
ANSWER:  
nematodes 
 [or  
nematoda 
] 
[10] Nancy and Bob both make the best possible choices based on each other’s strategies in what kind of 
economic situation? 
ANSWER:  
Nash equilibrium 
[10] Which American President caused the resignations of Attorney General Elliot Richardson and Deputy 
Attorney General William Ruckelshaus? 
ANSWER: Richard  
Nixon 
[10] In a short story by Nikolai Gogol, what body part jumps off of Major Kovalev and tries to be human? 
ANSWER:  
nose 
 [or  
The Nose 
] 
[10] Which Christian text reaffirms faith in God and is named after the 325 A.D. council where it was first 
adopted? 
ANSWER:  
Nicene 
 Creed [or  
Nicaea 
] 
[10] A quadratic equation has imaginary roots when the discriminant has what property? 
ANSWER:  
negative 
239--105-0110-3 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  10 of 18 
Letter C 
[10] What term is given to the amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of a gram of water by one 
degree Celsius? 
ANSWER:  
calorie 
[10] What leader of the Kuomintang moved his government to Taiwan in 1949? 
ANSWER:  
Chiang 
 Kai-shek [or  
Chiang 
 Chieh-shih; or  
Chiang 
 Chung-cheng] 
[10] What Carl Orff composition starts with “O Fortuna”? 
ANSWER:  
Carmina Burana 
[10] What English author wrote the mysteries  
And Then There Were None 
 and  
Murder on the Orient 
Express 
? 
ANSWER: Agatha  
Christie 
 [or Agatha Mary Clarissa  
Miller 
] 
[10] What type of argument includes the argument from contingency and the first cause argument as 
reasoning for the existence of God? 
ANSWER:  
cosmological 
 argument 
[10] What poet of “Anyone lived in a pretty how town” was known for his unconventional capitalization? 
ANSWER: Edward Estlin  
Cummings 
[10] In March 2014, what former Secretary of State compared Vladimir Putin’s actions to those of Adolf 
Hitler? 
ANSWER: Hillary Diane Rodham  
Clinton 
 [or Hillary Diane  
Rodham 
] 
[10] What force caused by the rotation of the earth gives hurricanes their spin? 
ANSWER:  
Coriolis 
 effect 
[10] What amphitheater in Rome was built by Vespasian? 
ANSWER:  
Colosseum 
 [or  
Coliseum 
] 
[10] What sacrament initiates a baptized person into the Christian faith? 
ANSWER:  
confirmation 
023--105-0110-3 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  11 of 18 
Letter R 
[10] Which French Impressionist painted  
Dance at Moulin de La Galette 
 and  
Luncheon of the Boating 
Party? 
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste  
Renoir 
[10] What protagonist of  
Crime and Punishment 
 finally confesses to Porfiry Petrovich at the book’s end? 
ANSWER: Rodion Romanovich  
Raskolnikov 
 [or  
Rodia 
] 
[10] What adjective is used in computer science to denote “expressions” used to parse strings, and in math, 
describes a polygon with all congruent sides and angles? 
ANSWER:  
regular 
[10] What river separates Texas from Oklahoma? 
ANSWER:  
Red 
 River of the South 
[10] What novel by Daphne du Maurier begins, “Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again”? 
ANSWER:  
Rebecca 
[10] What type of tax disproportionally takes a larger percentage of income from poor people than from the 
wealthy? 
ANSWER:  
regressive 
 tax 
[10] The Thermidorian Reaction was sparked by the decision to execute what leader of the Committee of 
Public Safety, who presided over much of the Reign of Terror? 
ANSWER: Maximilien de  
Robespierre 
[10] Which step in a chemical reaction determines the overall mechanism because it occurs the most 
slowly? 
ANSWER:  
rate-determining 
 step [or  
rate-limiting 
 step] 
[10] What politician was shot in 1981 by John Hinckley Jr.? 
ANSWER: Ronald  
Reagan 
[10] Valmiki wrote which ancient Hindu epic about a hero who must rescue his wife Sita from Ravana? 
ANSWER:  
Ramayana 
190--105-0110-3 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  12 of 18 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  13 of 18 
Colonia 2014 
Round 1 
20 20-Point Tossups 
1. A domed stadium in this city known as the \"Big Egg\" was, until 2004, the home field of a team called 
the Ham Fighters. It suffered numerous casualties in Operation Meetinghouse, which resulted in over 
100,000 people's ashes being interred in Sumida Ward. In 1995, this city, which has the tallest freestanding 
tower in the world, had its subway system victimized by a terrorist attack perpetrated by the cult Aum 
Shinrikyo. For 20 points, name this city whose Imperial Hotel survived the 1923 Great Kanto Earthquake. 
ANSWER:  
Tokyo 
052--105-01101 
2. This ruler moved his capital away from Amarna to Memphis. This ruler was married to Ankhesenamun 
(ohn-kes-en-AH-mun), and he sent forces to fight the Syrians and Hittites under his general Horemheb 
(HO-rem-heb). This ruler was also advised and succeeded by Ay (EYE), and he was one of the last 
pharaohs of the Eighteenth Dynasty. For 20 points, name this pharaoh who was buried in KV62, a tomb 
discovered in 1922 by Howard Carter. 
ANSWER:  
Tut 
ankhamun [or  
Tut 
ankhaten] 
023--105-01102 
3. For Raman scattering, this person names the lines caused by the positive and negative wavelength shifts. 
A law named for this scientist states that the drag force on a particle in a fluid is proportional to six pi times 
the velocity. He is the second namesake of a set of very difficult to solve partial differential equations that 
describe fluid flow, which he names with Navier (NAH-vee-ey). For 20 points, name this British physicist 
who generalized Green's theorem to relate surface integrals and volume integrals. 
ANSWER: George Gabriel  
Stokes 
048--105-01103 
4. Minerva saved a victim of this man who had achieved insight by looking at the spine of a fish. This man 
used honey to attract an ant into walking through a seashell. After this man pushed his nephew Perdix off 
of the Acropolis, Minerva turned Perdix into a partridge. Either this man or the daughters of Cocalus 
(coh-CAL-us) killed his former employer, the husband of Pasiphae (PASS-if-ey). For 20 points, name this 
father of Icarus who designed the Labyrinth. 
ANSWER:  
Daedalus 
 [or  
Daedalos 
; or  
Taitale 
] 
186--105-01104 
5. A 2013 adaptation of this opera by the Metropolitan Opera sets this work in 1960s Las Vegas. One 
character in this work claims to be a student named Gualtier Malde in order to woo a woman who is being 
hidden from the public by her father. In this opera, the title character's daughter Gilda is stabbed by 
Sparafucile. It is based on the Victor Hugo play  
Le Roi S’Amuse 
 and includes the Duke of Mantua’s aria 
“La donna e mobile.” For 20 points, name this opera by Giuseppe Verdi about a hunchbacked jester. 
ANSWER:  
Rigoletto 
030--105-01105 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  14 of 18 
6. Julius Caesar described seeing men dyed with woad while twice doing this action. The last successful 
instance of this feat was followed by the Harrying of the North and included a battle that featured the death 
of several housecarls. Napoleon envisioned accomplishing this feat with balloons and a massive tunnel, and 
Operation Sea Lion was a failed German attempt to do this action. It was most recently performed by the 
king who ordered the creation of the Domesday Book. For 20 points, identify this kind of military conquest 
which gave William the Conqueror his name. 
ANSWER:  
invading Britain 
 [or  
invading England 
 or other equivalents] 
141--105-01106 
7. This country was the home of a poet who wrote a work about a soul being unchained from the body 
during the night in  
First Dream 
. Another author from this country renewed interest in Sor Juana Ines de la 
Cruz with his  
The Traps of Faith 
 and wrote an essay about about this country entitled  
The Labryinth of 
Solitude 
. One author from this country wrote  
The Old Gringo 
, a fictionalized account of Ambrose Bierce’s 
trip to this country with the army of Pancho Villa. For 20 points, name this home country of Carlos Fuentes 
and Octavio Paz. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
030--105-01107 
8. One novel from this country ends with Maureen running towards a helicopter; that novel features the 
Smales family fleeing to the village of their servant July during a violent civil war. After receiving a letter 
from Theophilius Msimangu, Stephen Kumalo searches for his son Absalom in another novel set in this 
country. For 20 points, name this country, home to Nadine Gordimer and Alan Paton. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
South Africa 
226--105-01108 
9. During this period, the Action Programme implemented freedom of speech and the press. During this 
event,  
The Two Thousand Words 
 manifesto was published by Ludvik Vaculik (VAH-choo-lik). Many of 
the leaders during this period later joined Charter 77. Gustav Husak (HOO-shock) undid most of the 
reforms passed during this event, which attempted to establish \"socialism with a human face.\" Leonid 
Brezhnev sent in troops provided by the Warsaw Pact to end this event. For 20 points, name this period of 
liberal reforms in Czechoslovakia, started by Alexander Dubcek (DOOB-check) in 1968. 
ANSWER:  
Prague Spring 
 [or  
Prazske jaro 
] 
186--105-01109 
10. This man showed the limitations of rationalism with self-evident contradictions he called \"antinomies.\" 
He claimed rationalists and empiricists were unable to account for synthetic and \"a priori\" truths, whose 
existence he defended with transcendental arguments. In the  
Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, 
 he 
said that all moral actions should be such that we could will them to be universal laws, his categorical 
imperative. For 20 points, name this author of  
Critique of Pure Reason, 
 a German transcendenttalist 
philosopher. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
121--105-01110 
11. This sculptor depicted the assassination of an Assyrian general by a widow in his  
Judith and 
Holofernes. 
 This man sculpted  
St. Mark 
 and  
St. George 
 for the Orsanmichele. He created an equestrian 
statue of Erasmo of Nami known as  
Gattamelata, 
 and he also sculptured a boy with his foot on the head of 
the slain Goliath. For 20 points, name this Renaissance artist famous for his bronze, nude  
David. 
ANSWER:  
Donatello 
 [or Donato di Niccolo di Betto  
Bardi 
] 
227--105-01111 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  15 of 18 
12. This man became a starting player in college after injuries to future Colorado Rockies star Todd Helton. 
After he threw four interceptions in a game, his coach, Jim Mora, told the media \"Don't talk about 
playoffs.\" In 2003, this player referred to a teammate as \"our idiot kicker who got liquored up and ran his 
mouth off.\" This man attracted attention for saying \"Omaha\" numerous times before snaps in the most 
recent NFL playoffs. For 20 points, name this quarterback who threw for a record fifty-five touchdown 
passes in the 2013 season. 
ANSWER:  eyton  
P Manning 
 [prompt on  
Manning 
] 
052--105-01112 
13. In this novel, it is revealed that Debray gives confidential information to his lover to help her invest her 
husband's money in stocks. That accusation is dealt with by Villefort (vee-yuh-FORT), who realizes a letter 
given to this novel's protagonist by Napoleon is addressed to his father. With the assistance of Faria, that 
protagonist escapes that Chateau d'If (DEEF) and gains a fortune. For 20 points, identify this novel about 
Edmond Dantes written by Alexandre Dumas (doo-MAH). 
ANSWER:  
The  Count of Monte-Cristo 
 [or  
Le  Comte de Monte-Cristo 
] 
233--105-01113 
14. The second item on this list is \"samudaya\" (sah-moo-DIE-uh), which is later elucidated to include 
killing, lying, stealing, and other forms of \"attachment.\" This list begins with \"dukkha\" (DOO-kuh) and 
ends with \"magga.\" These tenets were revealed at Sarnath and are recorded in the text  
The Setting in 
Motion of the Wheel of Dharma, 
 and they constituted the first sermon given after the enlightenment under 
the Bodhi tree. The last of these beliefs says that the Eightfold Path is the way to reach nirvana. For 20 
points, identify this set of core beliefs of Buddhism. 
ANSWER:  
Four Noble Truths 
 [or  
Chattari-ariya-saccani 
; or  
Chatvari-arya-satyani 
] 
019--105-01114 
15. In a novel by this author, Captain Winterbottom stops a fight involving a village led by Ezeulu. This 
author complained about the \"dehumanization of Africa and Africans\" by a \"bloody racist\" in his essay \"An 
Image of Africa\" about the book  
Heart of Darkness 
. A character created by this author beats his wife 
during the Week of Peace and lives in Umuofia. For 20 points, name this Nigerian author who wrote  
Arrow 
of God 
 and a novel about Okonkwo called  
Things Fall Apart 
. 
ANSWER: Albert Chinualumogu  
Achebe 
023--105-01115 
16. This man was shot five times by the radical Ferdinand Cohen-Blind. He urged the passage of the 
Anti-Socialist Laws and innovative Sickness and Accident Insurance Laws. This man claimed that the great 
questions of the day would be resolved \"by iron and blood\" and launched the anti-Catholic  
Kulturkampf. 
He was eventually removed from office by Kaiser Wilhelm II. For 20 points, name this chancellor who 
unified the German states into a Prussia-dominated empire. 
ANSWER: Otto von  
Bismarck 
052--105-01116 
17. This composer's short piano piece  
Albumblatt 
 was rediscovered and given its premiere in 2012. This 
man’s fourth symphony includes variations of a theme from Bach’s  
Cantata No. 150 
. His  
Four Serious 
Songs 
 were written in memory of Clara Schumann, with whom this composer was in love. This composer 
included student drinking songs in his  
Academic Festival Overture. 
 For 20 points, name this German 
composer who composed a famous lullaby. 
ANSWER: Johannes  
Brahms 
030--105-01117 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  16 of 18 
18. A particularly short one of these beings won a bet against a tyrant by crossing the universe within three 
steps. The last of them will arrive on a white horse to bring in the end of the current age. The seventh of 
these divinities killed the demon Ravana to rescue his wife Sita, and the eighth mentored Arjuna in the  
Mahabharata 
 (mah-ha-BAH-ruh-tuh). Rama and Krishna are two of, for 20 points, what ten terrestrial 
incarnations of the preserver god from Hindu mythology? 
ANSWER:  
avatar 
s of  
Vishnu 
080--105-01118 
19. The ecliptic alignment of the anisotropy (an-ICE-uh-trop-ee) in this entity could violate the Copernican 
principle. This entity is linearly polarized due to Thomson scattering. The gravitational redshift of photons 
from this entity is described by the Sachs-Wolfe effect. Its origins lie in the recombination epoch, when 
photons decoupled from matter. It has been mapped by WMAP and COBE and was discovered by Robert 
Wilson and Arno Penzias at Bell Labs. For 20 points, name this radiation with a temperature of 2.7 degrees 
Kelvin that permeates the universe and is a residual of the Big Bang. 
ANSWER:  
CMB 
R [or  
cosmic microwave background 
 radiation; or  
relic 
 radiation] 
127--105-01119 
20. This composer wrote the second movement of one of his piano concertos with the soprano Constantia 
Gladkowska in mind. A waltz written by this composer was inspired by the sight of George Sand's dog 
chasing its tail. This composer of the \"Minute Waltz\" created a piece in which the right hand only plays 
black keys, and he wrote nearly seventy mazurkas. For 20 points, name this Polish-born French composer 
who created the \"Black Key\" and \"Revolutionary\" etudes. 
ANSWER: Frederic Francois  
Chopin 
 [or Fryderyk Franciszek  
Szopen 
] 
023--105-01120 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  17 of 18 
Colonia 2014 
Round 1 
Tiebreakers 
1. A domed stadium in this city known as the \"Big Egg\" was, until 2004, the home field of a team called 
the Ham Fighters. It suffered numerous casualties in Operation Meetinghouse, which resulted in over 
100,000 people's ashes being interred in Sumida Ward. In 1995, this city, which has the tallest freestanding 
tower in the world, had its subway system victimized by a terrorist attack perpetrated by the cult Aum 
Shinrikyo. For 20 points, name this city whose Imperial Hotel survived the 1923 Great Kanto Earthquake. 
ANSWER:  
Tokyo 
052--105-01131 
2. This ruler moved his capital away from Amarna to Memphis. This ruler was married to Ankhesenamun 
(ohn-kes-en-AH-mun), and he sent forces to fight the Syrians and Hittites under his general Horemheb 
(HO-rem-heb). This ruler was also advised and succeeded by Ay (EYE), and he was one of the last 
pharaohs of the Eighteenth Dynasty. For 20 points, name this pharaoh who was buried in KV62, a tomb 
discovered in 1922 by Howard Carter. 
ANSWER:  
Tut 
ankhamun [or  
Tut 
ankhaten] 
023--105-01132 
3. For Raman scattering, this person names the lines caused by the positive and negative wavelength shifts. 
A law named for this scientist states that the drag force on a particle in a fluid is proportional to six pi times 
the velocity. He is the second namesake of a set of very difficult to solve partial differential equations that 
describe fluid flow, which he names with Navier (NAH-vee-ey). For 20 points, name this British physicist 
who generalized Green's theorem to relate surface integrals and volume integrals. 
ANSWER: George Gabriel  
Stokes 
048--105-01133 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
Colonia 2014     1     Page  18 of 18 
