2013 Colonia 
Round 4 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. This man's actions are history \"as tragedy,\" as opposed to their repetition as \"farce,\" according to Karl 
Marx. This man's brother Joseph was opposed in the siege of Salamanca during the Peninsular War. Abbe 
Sieyes (see-ESS) supported this man's coup of 18 Brumaire against the Directory, and his losses included 
the Battles of Leipzig and Borodino. This ruler died in exile on St. Helena. Name this First Consul who was 
previously exiled to Elba, a short emperor who lost at Waterloo. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon 
 Bonaparte [or  
Napoleon 
 I; prompt on  
Bonaparte 
] 
104-13-84-04101 
2. Irreversible steps in this pathway include the decarboxylation of alpha-ketoglutarate. Near the end of this 
pathway, the cofactor FAD helps ubiquinone oxidate succinate to fumarate. The products of this pathway 
include three NADH molecules and one GTP molecule. The first reaction in this pathway uses oxaloacetate 
and the acetyl CoA produced by glycolysis. This pathway is followed by the electron transport chain. Name 
this cycle central to cellular respiration. 
ANSWER:  
Krebs cycle 
 [or  
citric acid cycle 
] 
014-13-84-04102 
3. One example of this substance was placed on an oak tree by a son of Athamas and Nephele named 
Phrixus after he was flown from Thessaly. A vehicle shaped like a giant cup of this substance was used by 
Heracles to reach the Hesperides. Nathaniel Hawthorne added to a Greek myth about this substance, 
claiming that a daughter of the Lydian king turned into it as part of his reward for saving the satyr Silenus. 
Zeus appeared as this substance to impregnate Danae. Name this precious substance which appeared with 
King Midas’s cursed touch. 
ANSWER:  
gold 
 [accept  
golden fleece 
 during the first sentence] 
104-13-84-04103 
4. This building was originally designed by George Frederick Bodley but was overseen by Philip Frohman 
during the last fifty years of its eighty-three year construction, which ended in 1990 atop Mount St. Alban. 
It will become only the second-largest building of its type in the U.S. once New York's St. John the Divine 
is completed. Landmarks on its grounds include the Olmsted Woods, the only combination peal and 
carillon bell system in North America, and a Darth Vader gargoyle. Name this building in the District of 
Columbia which hosts Presidential funerals and prominent interfaith services. 
ANSWER: Washington  
National Cathedral 
 [or  
Washington Cathedral 
; or  
Cathedral Church of St. 
Peter and St. Paul 
] 
019-13-84-04104 
5. In this book, the protagonist is enraged when his group is compared to “mule drivers” and “mud 
diggers.” Its main character meets a “tattered soldier” who makes the protagonist feel guilty by asking him 
about his wound. This book’s main character witnesses the death of his friend, Jim Conklin. The 
protagonist is a member of the 304th New York Regiment, Henry Fleming, whose romantic vision of war is 
quickly shattered. Name this Stephen Crane novel about the Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
The  Red Badge of Courage 
052-13-84-04105 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  1 of 18 
6. Opposition to this event led Lord Fisher to resign, and its initial failure caused Charles Monro to replace 
Ian Hamilton. French participants in this operation landed at Kum Kale, while the British attacked Cape 
Helles and troops from Australia and New Zealand targeted what became known as the ANZAC beaches. 
Lasting from February 1915 to January 1916, it was repelled by troops under Mustafa Kemal. Name this 
bloody attempt at an amphibious invasion of Turkey during World War I. 
ANSWER:  
Gallipoli 
 landing [or  
Dardanelles campaign 
] 
019-13-84-04106 
7. This region’s native Jemmy Button spoke its indigenous Yaghan language, which has only one native 
speaker left. Its largest island is home to a regional capital at Porvenir and the rainy town of Ushuaia. Its 
highest peak, Mount Darwin, lies near Beagle Channel. This region is separated from Patagonia by the 
Strait of Magellan. Name this archipelago south of Chile and Argentina which was named after Magellan 
saw distant fires rising from it. 
ANSWER:  
Tierra del Fuego 
104-13-84-04107 
8. One character in this novel proposes a Persian carpet as a metaphor for life. That character is named 
Cronshaw. After the protagonist of this novel leaves for Paris, Fanny hangs herself. The protagonist of this 
novel loved the much older Miss Wilkinson. The waitress Mildred Rogers is another love interest of this 
novel's club-footed protagonist, who ultimately proposes to Thorpe’s daughter, Sally Athelny. Name this 
semi-autobiographical novel about Philip Carey, written by W. Somerset Maugham. 
ANSWER:  
Of Human Bondage 
149-13-84-04108 
9. One catalyst used to form this substance contains two iodine and two carbonyl ligands attached to an 
iridium atom in a square planar arrangement. That is the Cativa catalyst, which forms this substance via the 
carbonylation of methanol. At 16.6 degrees Celsius, crystals of the anhydrous form of this substance can be 
isolated in the \"glacial\" form of it. Name this substance with formula CH3COOH, which is the primary 
component of vinegar. 
ANSWER:  
acetic acid 
 [or  
acetate 
] 
140-13-84-04109 
10. This philosopher used the term “blond beast” to describe the predatory class of men who impose social 
organization on others. He developed the idea of “eternal recurrence” in a book proposing a man crossing a 
rope over an abyss as a symbolic representation of man approaching the state of the  
Übermensch. 
 His tract  
The Gay Science 
 contained his famous proclamation that “God is dead.” Name this German philosopher 
who wrote  
Thus Spoke Zarathustra. 
ANSWER: Friedrich  
Nietzsche 
014-13-84-04110 
11. This man is shown to the left of an empty chair draped with an ornate cloak, symbolizing rejected 
kingship, in a painting that shows him \"resigning his commission.\" He is the subject of the Vaughan and 
Athenaum portraits. His right hand stretches out over a red-draped table with a quill while his left hand 
holds a sword in the Lansdowne portrait; those three paintings of him are by Gilbert Stuart. Identify this 
person whom Emmanuel Leutze depicted in a boat on icy waters \"crossing the Delaware.\" 
ANSWER: George  
Washington 
019-13-84-04111 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  2 of 18 
12. One example of this device uses a parabolic primary mirror and hyperbolic secondary mirror and was 
invented by Laurent Cassegrain. There are three primary types of this device: refracting, reflecting and 
catadioptric. Hans Lipperhey is commonly associated with the invention of this device. An improved 
version of this device that consisted of a convergent objective lens and a divergent eyepiece lens was 
created by Galileo. Identify this device commonly used to magnify and observe astronomical objects. 
ANSWER: optical  
telescope 
 [or reflecting  
telescope 
 before it is read] 
066-13-84-04112 
13. Mario Vargas Llosa wrote a \"retelling\" of this man's most famous novel entitled  
Bad Girl. 
 The veil of 
Tanit is stolen by Matho in this man’s novel  
Salammbo. 
 After moving to Yonville, a character in a novel by 
this man borrows money from Lheureux and gives birth to Berthe. In that novel by this man, the 
protagonist’s husband botches an experimental surgery on the club-footed boy Hippolyte. That protagonist 
has affairs with Leon Dupuis and Rodolphe Boulanger. Name this French author of  
Madame Bovary. 
ANSWER: Gustave  
Flaubert 
149-13-84-04113 
14. Music events in this city include the Earshot Jazz Festival and Bumbershoot. This city's native son 
Joshua Ramus joined Rem Koolhas to design its public library. The namesake of this city ceded the land for 
it in the Treaty of Port Elliott. Suburbs including Everett, Bellevue, and Redmond surround this city. A 
major landmark here was built for the 1962 World’s Fair and provides a view of Mount Rainier from its 
top. Name this city on Puget Sound, the home of the Space Needle in Washington. 
ANSWER:  
Seattle 
019-13-84-04114 
15. Section markings in this piece include the \"lentement\" and the \"rigaudon.\" The most familiar portion of 
this musical piece is the conclusion of its first suite, the \"Alla Hornpipe.\" It is divided into three component 
suites, which are in F, D, and G major. At its debut, it was played three times in a row because it delighted 
its target audience, King George I. Name this composition by George Handel, which is named because of 
its debut performance from barges on the Thames River. 
ANSWER: the  
Water Music 
019-13-84-04115 
16.  
One way that this quantity is calculated is symbolized \"W + I + R + P\" and is called the factor income 
approach. This quantity's namesake \"deflator\" is the ratio between its nominal and real values. Another way 
of calculating it is to sum consumption, investment, government spending, and net exports, which is called 
the expenditure approach. This measure has been replaced by other measures like HDI because it fails to 
take into account leisure time or black market dealing. Unlike a similar measure, it does not include goods 
produced in foreign nations. Name this economic measurement of wealth, the value of final goods and 
services produced in one year in a country. 
ANSWER:  
gross domestic product 
 [or  
GDP 
] 
190-13-84-04116 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  3 of 18 
17. Cú Roí (COO roy) urges three rivals to perform this action in the Irish story of the feast of Bricriu 
(BRYE-croo). During the Aesir-Vanir war, Odin found Mimir after this had occurred to him. Diomedes 
(dye-AH-muh-deez) does this to the slow-witted Dolon in the Iliad, and another instance of it causes the 
birth of Chrysaor (chris-EY-or) and Pegasus from the resulting wound. Identify this act which Perseus does 
after defeating Medusa and David does after defeating Goliath. 
ANSWER:  
decapitation 
 [or word forms; or  
beheading 
; or  
cutting off heads 
, etc.; do not accept or prompt 
on “killing” or similar answers, since the whole point of the story is that Cu Roi is not killed by having his 
head cut off] 
019-13-84-04117 
18. This man's namesake theorem gives the radius of a fourth circle which is tangent to three other mutually 
tangent circles. An operation which gives all possible pairs from two sets is called his namesake \"product.\" 
The number of positive roots of a polynomial has the same parity as the number of sign changes of the 
polynomial's coefficients according to his \"rule of signs.\" This man's best-known mathematical 
achievement is extended to three dimensions with the inclusion of a z-axis, and is centered at the origin. 
Name this mathematician who formulated a rectangular coordinate system. 
ANSWER: Rene  
Descartes 
190-13-84-04118 
19. This controversy grew from violations of the Boland Amendment and was first reported by Lebanon's  
Ash-Shiraa 
 magazine. One man who lied to Congress during this scandal later hosted a show about \"War 
Stories\" on cable TV. The Tower Commission outed Oliver North's role in this scandal, which revealed the 
source of funds for anti-Sandinista Nicaraguan rebels. For 10 points, name this scandal stemming from the 
Reagan administration's illegal sale of arms to a hostage-holding Islamic Republic. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Contra 
 affair [or obvious equivalents involving arms sales to  
Iran 
 to fund the  
Contra 
s] 
104-13-84-04119 
20. This author created a man who carries on an affair with Hilda Burgoyne, although he is married to 
Winifred, in  
Alexander’s Bridge. 
 Another of this author’s characters, Emil Bergson, is shot under a white 
mulberry tree along with Marie Shabata by Marie’s husband, Frank. This author wrote a novel narrated by 
Jim Burden, who details the maturation of the title Bohemian girl and her marriage to Anton Cuzak. Name 
this author of  
O Pioneers! 
 and  
My Antonia. 
ANSWER: Willa  
Cather 
 [or Wilella Sibert  
Cather 
] 
192-13-84-04120 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  4 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 4 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. One king of this name was responsible for the murder of Alfred the Aetheling, was the son of Canute, 
and was known as \"Harefoot.\" Another king of this name was captured by Guy I of Ponthieu after a 
shipwreck and later defeated Tostig at the Battle of Stamford Bridge. That king of this name was shown 
being killed by an arrow to his eye in the Bayeux Tapestry. Give this name of the last Anglo-Saxon king of 
England who died in his battle against William the Conqueror at Hastings. 
ANSWER:  
Harold 
 [or  
Harold 
 I; or  
Harold 
 Harefoot; or  
Harold 
 II; or  
Harold 
 Godwinson] 
030-13-84-04121 
2. This man's government created Project Merlin to increase lending to small businesses in 2011. In 2012, 
he met with Alex Salmond to discuss a possible devolution that Salmond advocates. In January 2013, he 
claimed he didn't want to \"pull up the drawbridge\" in a speech that proposed holding a referendum by 2017 
on whether his country should remain in the EU. This man's party formed a coalition with the Liberal 
Democrats led by Nick Clegg after the 2010 general election. Name this prime minister of the United 
Kingdom. 
ANSWER: David  
Cameron 
121-13-84-04122 
3. Parts of this law were invalidated by the Peace of Alès (ah-LAY) thirty years later. Disputes caused by it 
were heard in the Chambre de l'Edit (SHOMB-breh del-EE-deet). This law guaranteed eight years of safety 
for currently occupied fortresses, which it termed \"places de surete\" (PLASS day soor-ey-TAY). This law 
was completely revoked in 1685 by Louis XIV's Edict of Fontainebleau. Name this 1598 promulgation by 
Henry IV that protected Huguenots in France. 
ANSWER:  
Edict of Nantes 
 [or  
Edit De Nantes 
] 
019-13-84-04123 
4. One piece by this man contains a slow trombone passage in A flat minor and a mysterious \"Molto piu 
moderato\" movement. A misattributed Saint Anthony theme is used in this man's  
Variations on a Theme by 
Haydn. 
 One of this composer's symphonies uses an alphorn theme in its last movement; he replied \"any ass 
can see that\" when Hans von Bulow nicknamed that  
First Symphony 
 by this man \"Beethoven's Tenth.\" 
Name this German classical composer of the  
Tragic Overture 
, who wrote a lied (leed) that is a 
commonly-sung lullaby. 
ANSWER: Johannes  
Brahms 
023-13-84-04124 
5. This interaction explains why the boiling point for butane is higher than for isobutene despite both 
having the same molecular formula. Willem Keesom explained a type of this interaction that arises from 
molecules having elements with different electronegativities. This force can be caused by the temporary 
clustering of electrons at one end of a molecule, which can create an induced dipole. That dispersion type 
of this force was described by Fritz London. Name this force that attracts molecules together more weakly 
than covalent and hydrogen bonds. 
ANSWER:  
Van der Waals 
 force [or  
dipole-dipole 
 interaction before \"dipole\"; or London  
dispersion 
force before read; or  
London 
 force before read] 
023-13-84-04125 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  5 of 18 
6. In one story by this author, James Nolan writes a script for the assassination of Fergus Kirpatrick, who 
betrayed the 1821 Irish rebellion. Another Irish rebellion one hundred years later is the setting for his story 
of how John Vincent Moon came to bear a scar on his face. This author of \"The Theme of the Traitor and 
the Hero\" and \"The Form of the Sword\" also wrote of a lottery which grows to encompass the entirety of 
life in Babylon, and of an endless structure containing all possible books, the Library of Babel. Name this 
blind Argentinian author of  
Ficciones. 
ANSWER: Jorge Luis  
Borges 
019-13-84-04126 
7. In a costume party in this game, the player must talk to a man in a rabbit mask to find out whether to go 
after Lydia, Esma, or Waverly Boyle. An episode of this game is set in the sewers, where the player can 
choose to kill Granny Rags, Slackjaw, or neither to get the Master Key. It is set in a city patrolled by the 
Tallboys, which is threatened by a plague engineered by Lord Regent Hiram Burrows in the wake of the 
murder of the Empress. Name this 2012 Arkane Studios game whose protagonist is Corvo Attano, an 
assassin in the city of Dunwall. 
ANSWER:  
Dishonored 
080-13-84-04127 
8. In this film, Jane Lynch's character repeatedly punches another character in the face until they can grab 
Laffy-Taffy and escape from some quicksand. In one scene of this film, graffiti reading \"Aerith Lives\" can 
be seen in Central Station. This movie's title character drops stalactites made of Mentos into Diet Cola 
Mountain to cause an eruption and destroy the invading Cy-Bugs; he also helps Vanellope defeat King 
Candy in a race inside the game  
Sugar Rush. 
 Name this 2012 Disney movie about an arcade villain who 
wants to be a hero. 
ANSWER:  
Wreck It Ralph 
080-13-84-04128 
9. This man collected some of his early work in the  
Parmelian Prints 
. He depicted a church and a cemetery 
overlooked by dark clouds in a rural town during a time in which he was hired by the Secretary of the 
Interior. Willard van Dyke and Imogen Cunningham joined this man in a group named for the small size of 
the aperture which he used, f/64. He also depicted a snow-capped monolith at Half Dome in a series of 
photographs. Name this photographer of  
Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico 
 and several landmarks in 
Yosemite National Park. 
ANSWER: Ansel  
Adams 
190-13-84-04129 
10. Italy and Romania disastrously entered the First World War just before this country's 1915 and 1916 
offensives failed. This country's army made a Great Retreat after losing at Gorlice-Tarnow 
(gor-LICH-tar-now). Its forces destroyed the Austro-Hungarian Army as a fighting force during the 
Brusilov Offensive. This country was defeated at Tannenberg when it opened Germany's Eastern front. 
Name this country that exited World War I after overthrowing its tsar. 
ANSWER:  
Russia 
n Empire [do not accept or prompt on \"USSR\" or \"Soviet Union\"] 
153-13-84-04130 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  6 of 18 
1. Answer the following about the circulatory system. 
[5] What medical technique's readouts include a P wave, a T wave, and a QRS complex? It monitors 
electrical signals generated by the heart. 
ANSWER:  
electrocardiogram 
 [or  
EKG 
; or  
ECG 
] 
[10] What specific types of blood vessels in the human circulatory system carry deoxygenated blood from 
the heart to the lungs? 
ANSWER:  
pulmonary arteries 
 [or  
pulmonary artery 
; prompt on just  
artery 
 or  
arteries 
] 
[15] Members of what phylum possess a pseudocoelem body cavity but lack a circulatory system? This 
phylum includes the trichinella worm and  
C. elegans 
. 
ANSWER:  
nematoda 
 [or  
nematodes 
; prompt on  
roundworms 
] 
[20] Major arteries develop from what six-component structure in the human embryo? 
ANSWER: the  
aortic arches 
189-13-84-04101 
2. Answer the following about paranoia. 
[5] A band called The Paranoids appears in what Thomas Pynchon novel about Oedipa Maas titled for an 
auction? 
ANSWER:  
The  Crying of Lot 49 
[10] Hitler Studies professor Jack Gladney fears his impending death in what novel by Don Delillo? 
ANSWER:  
White Noise 
[15] Who wrote a book in which employees at a vanity press use the computer Abulafia to generate a fake 
conspiracy theory they call “The Plan?” 
ANSWER: Umberto  
Eco 
 [the book is  
Foucault's Pendulum 
] 
[20] What liberal historian wrote  
The Paranoid Style in American Politics 
 and  
Anti-Intellectualism in 
American Life? 
ANSWER: Richard  
Hofstadter 
121-13-84-04102 
3. Answer the following about epic poems. 
[5] What poet of the  
Eclogues 
 told the story of Rome's legendary founder in his  
Aeneid 
? 
ANSWER:  
Virgil 
[10] Who is the namesake of a type of sonnet and wrote poems to Laura in his  
Il Canzoniere? 
ANSWER:  
Petrarch 
 [or Francesco  
Petrarch 
a] 
[15] The Pandavas and the Kauravas go to war in what epic of India? 
ANSWER: the  
Mahabharata 
[20] What epic from Kyrgyzstan, with half a million verses, tells of the title hero's war with the Oirat 
chieftain Joloy? 
ANSWER:  
Manas 
192-13-84-04103 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  7 of 18 
4. Answer the following about economic models. 
[5] Aggregate demand is central to the mainstream school of economics named for what British author of  
The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money? 
ANSWER: John Maynard  
Keynes 
[10] What conservative school of economics, led at one point by Ludwig von Mises, distrusts the use of 
economic models? 
ANSWER: the  
Austrian 
 School 
[15] What model devised by John Hicks consists of two intersecting curves that plot equilibria in the goods 
and money markets? 
ANSWER:  
IS-LM 
 model 
[20] What activity is subject to the Leontief Paradox and Hecksher-Ohlin Model? 
ANSWER: international  
trade 
 [or free  
trade 
] 
080-13-84-04104 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  8 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 4 
Letter F 
Letter K 
Letter Z 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  9 of 18 
Letter F 
[10] What Ernest Hemingway novel is about Robert Jordan fighting in the Spanish Civil War? 
ANSWER:  
For Whom the Bell Tolls 
[10] What American Founding Father published  
Poor Richard’s Almanack 
? 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
Franklin 
[10] What biological kingdom contains such organisms as yeasts, molds, and mushrooms? 
ANSWER:  
fungi 
[10] In what country were the Paleolithic Lascaux cave paintings found? 
ANSWER:  
France 
[10] What papal name did the recently elected Jorge Bergoglio take? 
ANSWER:  
Francis 
 [or  
Franciscus 
] 
[10] What author wrote the satirical work  
Penguin Island 
? 
ANSWER: Anatole  
France 
[10] What German city was the site of the first democratically elected German parliament in 1848? 
ANSWER:  
Frankfurt 
[10] What element is the lightest halogen? 
ANSWER:  
flourine 
[10] What American wrote the songs “Camptown Races” and “Oh! Susanna”? 
ANSWER: Stephen  
Foster 
[10] Who was Odin’s wife and mother of Balder in Norse mythology? 
ANSWER:  
Frigg 
 [or  
Frigga 
] 
052-13-84-0410-3 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  10 of 18 
Letter K 
[10] Name the dark-skinned Hindu goddess of death who is honored in a puja every November. 
ANSWER:  
Kali 
ka [or  
Bhavatarini 
] 
[10] What Greek letter denotes the connectivity of a graph and the curvature of a curve? 
ANSWER:  
kappa 
[10] What declaration, whose name is Aramaic for \"all vows,\" is recited before the evening service on Yom 
Kippur? 
ANSWER:  
Kol Nidre 
i 
[10] Give the term for spirits or deities in Japanese mythology. 
ANSWER:  
kami 
[10] What pan-African holiday, created by Maulana Karenga, is celebrated at the end of December? 
ANSWER:  
Kwanzaa 
[10] Name the civil rights leader who delivered the \"I Have a Dream\" speech. 
ANSWER: Martin Luther  
King 
 Jr. [or Dr.  
King 
] 
[10] Name the puzzle video game series which involves the player rolling a ball and collecting myriad 
objects in order to form a star. 
ANSWER:  
Katamari 
 [or  
Katamari Damacy 
] 
[10] Give the name of three kings of Hawaii, the first of whom outlawed human sacrifice. 
ANSWER:  
Kamehameha 
[10] Name the African kingdom in Southwest Africa which converted to Christianity and later became a 
vassal state to the Portuguese Empire. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Kongo 
[10] Name the play by Shakespeare about a monarch with one grateful and two wicked daughters. 
ANSWER:  
King Lear 
020-13-84-0410-3 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  11 of 18 
Letter Z 
[10] What species of African equid is known for its black and white stripes? 
ANSWER:  
zebra 
[10] What landlocked African country is bounded by the Zambezi and Limpopo rivers? 
ANSWER:  
Zimbabwe 
[10] What painter was known as the Spanish Caravaggio for his use of  
chiaroscuro 
? 
ANSWER: Francisco de  
Zurbarán 
[10] What first Premier of the People's Republic of China served under Mao Zedong? 
ANSWER:  
Zhou 
 Enlai 
[10] What dualistic Persian religion believed in two opposing forces: Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu? 
ANSWER:  
Zoroastrianism 
[10] What Swiss Reformation leader famously debated Martin Luther and attended the Marburg Colloquy? 
ANSWER: Ulrich  
Zwingli 
[10] What school of Mahayana Buddhism emphasizes achieving enlightenment? 
ANSWER:  
Zen 
 Buddhism 
[10] Shaka was a leader of what South African people that fought a namesake war with the British Empire 
in 1879? 
ANSWER:  
Zulu 
[10] By what term is a fertilized egg known? 
ANSWER:  
zygote 
[10] What imaginary point lies directly above an observer on the celestial sphere? 
ANSWER:  
zenith 
066-13-84-0410-3 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  12 of 18 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  13 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 4 
20 20-Point Tossups 
1. Alternating dark and light bands that occur as small wave crests in these objects are called ogives. 
Streams that originate from these objects often have multiple small channels separated by temporary 
islands and are called braided streams. Till deposited by these objects can create moraines. For 20 points, 
name these objects which form when their ablation is less than the accumulation of snow, which is why 
global warming is causing many of them to shrink. 
ANSWER:  
glaciers 
149-13-84-04101 
2. When one side of this equation is divided by the other, a parameter symbolized Z , called the 
compressibility factor, is obtained. One correction to this equation uses parameters symbolized a and b, 
representing molecular volume and attractive forces. The virial equation is a more useful correction to this 
equation. A restatement of this equation uses particle number times Boltzmann's constant, rather than 
number of moles times this law's namesake constant. This law is a combination of Guy-Lussac's, Charles', 
and Boyle's Law. For 20 points, name this law often stated \"PV = nRT\". 
ANSWER:  
ideal gas 
 law 
190-13-84-04102 
3. This author wrote a  
King Lear 
-inspired novel in which the peasant Fouan divides his land between his 
three sons titled  
The Earth. 
 In another of his books, Chaval tries to murder his lover Catherine during a 
cave-in after Etienne Lantier leads a failed miners' strike. This author wrote a twenty-novel cycle about a 
lower-class family during the Second Empire. That cycle about the Rougon-Macquart family includes his 
novel  
Germinal. 
 For 20 points, name this French naturalist who defended Alfred Dreyfus in the letter  
J'Accuse. 
ANSWER: Emile  
Zola 
080-13-84-04103 
4. Along with the pons, this structure develops from the rostral rhombencephalon (rom-been-SEPH-ah-lon). 
The vermis separates the two hemispheres of this structure, whose other subdivisions include the 
flocculonodular node. The substantia nigra (sub-STAN-sha NEE-gra) are located within it, while mossy 
and climbing fibers converge upon it. Featuring Purkinje neurons, this structure is located below the 
cerebral cortex. For 20 points, name this “little brain,” whose responsibilities include coordinating motor 
actions. 
ANSWER:  
cerebellum 
192-13-84-04104 
5. This author wrote a play in which Gooper attends a party honoring his father’s release from the Ochsner 
Clinic. That character created by this man despises \"mendacity\" and tries to reunite with his son Brick. In 
another of his plays, a \"gentleman caller\" visits a crippled young woman who collects figurines. For 20 
points, name this author of  
The Glass Menagerie, 
 who also wrote a play featuring the brutal Stanley 
Kowalski and Blanche DuBois. 
ANSWER: Tennessee  
Williams 
 [or Thomas Lanier  
Williams 
] 
052-13-84-04105 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  14 of 18 
6. An equation for determining the net external value of this phenomenon rewrites Newton's second law as 
being equal to I times alpha. By facing fingers in the direction of an applied force, the right hand rule can 
be used to have the thumb point in the direction of this force. This force is equal to r F times the sine of 
theta, where theta is the angle at which the force is being applied around a pivot. For 20 points, name this 
physics phenomenon defined as the tendency for an applied force to cause an object to rotate. 
ANSWER:  
torque 
 [or  
moment 
 of force; or  
moment 
 of a force] 
023-13-84-04106 
7. Conductivity times the electric field give the current type of this quantity. The square root of the bulk 
modulus over this quantity gives the speed of sound in a fluid. Also, in fluids, this quantity times 
gravitational acceleration times height yields pressure. At room temperature, osmium has the highest value 
for it. It must be smaller for an object in a fluid than the fluid it is in for the object to float. For 20 points, 
name this physical quantity equal to mass per unit of volume. 
ANSWER:  
density 
 [prompt on  
rho 
] 
104-13-84-04107 
8. One character in this novel tells the protagonist not to \"struggle so like a wild, frantic bird, that is rending 
its own plumage in its desperation.\" That same protagonist is locked in the \"red room,\" and other characters 
in this novel include Helen Burns and Bertha Mason, the latter of whom burns down Thornfield Manor. Its 
title character ultimately marries Edward Rochester. For 20 points, identify this Victorian novel by 
Charlotte Bronte. 
ANSWER:  
Jane Eyre 
189-13-84-04108 
9. Over one character's shoulder in this painting sit a geranium and a mother-in-law's tongue. This work's 
creator was inspired by a house in Eldon. One of the people in this painting was Byron McKeeby, who 
stands next to the artist's sister Nan. For 20 points, name this painting, in which McKeeby holds a 
three-pronged hay fork in his right hand. 
ANSWER:  
American Gothic 
023-13-84-04109 
10. A \"superheavy\" entity of this kind may contain both a branching nucleus and a coda; the other segment 
present in the general structure of these entities is the onset. Hermann Ebbinghaus developed learning and 
forgetting curves by memorizing \"nonsense\" ones. \"Open\" ones may have up to four different tones in 
Mandarin Chinese. Tablets unearthed in Ur reveal the shift from pictograms to these in depicting writing. 
For 20 points, identify these units which appear in five-seven-five fashion in haikus. 
ANSWER:  
syllable 
s 
020-13-84-04110 
11. Antoine-Jean Gros painted this man visiting plague victims at Jaffa. A depiction of this man commonly 
shown in biographies includes a clock displaying the time of 4:13 AM and a ruffled white-on-blue outfit, 
suggesting that this man has been working through the night. In another painting, he is pointing to the left 
while looking towards the viewer and riding a bucking horse in rocky terrain. For 20 points, identify this 
historical figure depicted \"in his study at the Tuileries\" and “crossing the Alps” by Jacques-Louis David. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon 
 Bonaparte [or  
Napoleon 
 I; or Napoleon  
Bonaparte 
] 
019-13-84-04111 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  15 of 18 
12. In the months before this war, Britain almost became involved when the troop carrier  
Kowshing 
 was 
sunk. This war began over an accused violation of the Lito Convention, when one side sent troops to 
suppress the Tonghak rebellion. This war resulted in the Pescadores, the Liaodong Peninsula, and Taiwan 
being ceded to the victors under the Treaty of Shimonoseki. For 20 points, name this war over control of 
Korea between two other East Asian powers, which was fought from 1894 to 1895. 
ANSWER: First  
Sino-Japanese 
 War [or First  
China-Japan 
 War] 
019-13-84-04112 
13. This character introduces James Steerforth, a friend of his from Salem House, to Little Emily, the niece 
of the fisherman Dan Peggotty. This man marries Dora Spenlow, although he eventually marries a lawyer’s 
daughter, Agnes Wickfield. He is eventually raised by his aunt Betsey Trotwood after growing up abused 
by his stepfather Mr. Murdstone. For 20 points, name this character who is patronizingly called “master” 
by his nemesis, Uriah Heep, and is befriended by Mr. Micawber. 
ANSWER:  
David 
 Copperfield [or David  
Copperfield 
; or  
Trotwood 
 before it is read; or  
Trot 
 before 
“Trotwood” is read] 
052-13-84-04113 
14. The first of these institutions was bought out by Stephen Girard. William Jones was the first president 
of another of these institutions, which was also led by Langdon Cheves. The second of these institutions 
was unconstitutionally taxed according to the ruling in  
McCulloch v. Maryland 
. Roger Taney (TAW-nee) 
was directed by Andrew Jackson in a feud with Nicholas Biddle to remove all federal deposits from one. 
For 20 points, name these institutions, whose second and last one controversially did not have its charter 
renewed in 1836. 
ANSWER:  
Banks of the United States 
 [or  
Banks of the U.S. 
; or  
First and Second Banks of the United 
States 
; or  
First and Second Banks of the U.S. 
; or  
First Bank of the United States 
 until \"William Jones\"; 
prompt on  
bank 
s; do not accept \"Federal Reserve\"; do not accept \"the Fed\"] 
121-13-84-04114 
15. The further adventures of this group are chronicled in  
Twenty Years After 
 and  
The Vicomte of 
Bragelonne. 
 They employ the servents Bazin, Grimaud, and Mousqueton. Each of these characters is 
challenged to a duel by the protagonist on the same day. They have the motto “all for one, one for all.” 
This group’s frequent adversaries include Milady de Winter and Cardinal Richelieu. For 20 points, name 
this group of soldiers that befriends D’Artagnan in an Alexandre Dumas novel. 
ANSWER: the  
Three Musketeers 
015-13-84-04115 
16. Historian Martin Bernal wrote a work with a title that referred to this goddess as \"Black.\" Cecrops 
mediated a dispute between Poseidon and her for the possession of Attica. In response to the rape of 
Cassandra by Ajax, she sent a storm that sank the Greek fleet returning from Troy. This goddess ripped 
apart a tapestry depicting the faults of the gods after losing a weaving contest to Arachne. For 20 points, 
name this Greek goddess of handicraft and war, who was born out of the head of Zeus. 
ANSWER: Pallas  
Athena 
 [or  
Athene 
] 
030-13-84-04116 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  16 of 18 
17. This author outlined his principles of writing in the essay \"The World and the Jug.\" In a short story by 
this author, a man waits for a movie to end so that he can attempt to win $36.90 in a bingo game. This 
author also created a man who is accused of kidnapping Tod Clifton after adding \"concentrated remover\" to 
the \"Optic White\" batch at the Liberty Paints factory. He also created Alonzo Hickman, who fails to avert 
the assassination of the racist and possibly black Adam Sunraider in  
Juneteenth. 
 For 20 points, name this 
African-American author of  
Invisible Man. 
ANSWER: Ralph  
Ellison 
 [or Ralph Waldo  
Ellison 
] 
019-13-84-04117 
18. All practicing members of this religion take on a name meaning either \"princess\" or \"lion.\" Members of 
this religion undergo the \"amrit sanskar\" ritual to become a member of its order of adult believers. This 
religion’s last leader was Gobind Singh, who decreed that it would thereafter be led by its sacred text, the 
Granth, rather than human gurus. This religion dominates India’s Punjab region and was founded by Guru 
Nanak. For 20 points, name this monotheistic faith which draws on both Hinduism and Islam. 
ANSWER:  
Sikh 
ism 
019-13-84-04118 
19. This city's influence in Sicily was weakened after its defeat in the battle of Himera. It contained the 
\"Tophet of Salammbo\" where skeletal remains suggest children may have been sacrificed to Ba'al 
Hammon. In one war, this city's opponent used a boarding device called a corvus to attack its ships. In 
another war, this city lost at the Battle of Zama after a huge victory at Cannae. For 20 points, name this 
opponent of Rome in the Punic Wars and home of Hannibal. 
ANSWER:  
Carthage 
 [or  
Carthago 
; or  
Kart-hadasht 
] 
121-13-84-04119 
20. After one battle in this war, dozens of people who were unable to walk to Fort Malden were brutally 
killed in the Raisin River Massacre. Sir Isaac Brock was killed at this war's Battle of Queenston Heights. 
The Battle of Bladensburg occurred during this war and led to one side's capital being burned. For 20 
points, name this war in which Jean Lafitte helped a commander win a pivotal battle two weeks after a 
peace treaty had already been signed at Ghent. 
ANSWER: War of  
1812 
190-13-84-04120 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  17 of 18 
2013 Colonia 
Round 4 
Tiebreakers 
1. The rate of this process in crystal lattices takes an Arrhenius-like form and creates point defects. This 
process is governed by a law which takes the same form as Fourier's Law of heat conduction. Another 
equation governing this process sets velocity to be inversely proportional to the square root of molar mass. 
This process governed by Fick's Law and Graham's Law occurs to pollen in water in Brownian motion. 
Name this process which occurs biologically as osmosis, the net movement of particles from regions of 
high concentration to low concentration. 
ANSWER:  
diffusion 
 [prompt on \"effusion\"] 
190-13-84-04151 
2. This thinker studied the mixture of features from patrilineal and matrilineal cultures, along with the 
practice of potlatch, in the Kwakiutl tribes. He attacked pseudoscientific theories of racial superiority and 
advocated the methodology of cultural relativism in his book  
The Mind of Primitive Man. 
 He founded the 
anthropology department at Columbia University, where he taught Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict. 
Name this German-born “Father of American Anthropology.” 
ANSWER: Franz  
Boas 
014-13-84-04152 
3. One side in this battle gained a strategic advantage by removing espolones in advance of the fight. The 
victorious side in this battle had a gap in its line held by reserves under Alvaro de Bazan. Augustino 
Barbarigo was outflanked in this battle by the forces of Mahomet Sirocco. The losing commander's head 
was displayed on a pike in this battle that involved forces under Uluj-Ali and Ali Pasha losing to Andrea 
Doria and Don John of Austria. Name this 1571 naval battle in which the Holy League fleet defeated the 
Ottomans. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Lepanto 
023-13-84-04153 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 Colonia     4     Page  18 of 18 
