2013 NHB Set B 
Bee Round 2 
BEE ROUND 2 
1. In a literary appearance, this character is accused of being a \"torpedo fish\" before being asked how one 
can recognize something one has never seen. He demonstrates that doubling a square is something that can 
be done by a slave. He described himself as a gadfly bothering the horse of Athenian society when he was 
put on trial for \"corrupting the youth.\" For the point, name this star of the  
Apology 
 whose teachings are 
recorded in the dialogues of Plato. 
ANSWER:  
Socrates 
020-13-89-12101 
2. The Jacobin Club met in a building formerly owned by this order. The founder of this order, who is 
credited with inventing the rosary, received permission from Pope Innocent III to try to convert the 
Albigensians (AL-bij-EN-si-uns). Eminent theologians among this order included the \"Doctor Universalis,\" 
Albertus Magnus, who taught another member of this order, Thomas Aquinas. For the point, name this 
monastic order, whose members were called \"black friars\" or, in a Latin pun, the \"dogs of God.\" 
ANSWER: the  
Dominican 
 Order [or  
Dominicans 
] 
080-13-89-12102 
3. A space station is taken over by terrorists from this country in the shooter  
Vanquish. 
 A rogue colonel 
from this country, who can manipulate lightning, attempts to overthrow its government in  
Metal Gear Solid 
3. 
 In  
Civilization 5, 
 a leader from this country has a \"Riches\" ability that gives double Iron and Horses. For 
the point, name this country, in which James Bond infiltrates the GRU Military Archives in  
GoldenEye 
007, 
 home to characters such as Arkady Ourumov. 
ANSWER:  
Russia 
 [or the  
Soviet Union 
; or the  
USSR 
] 
048-13-89-12103 
4. The Wilson-Kautz raid cut supply lines during one battle in this state, which saw severe black casualties 
at Chaffin's Farm and the explosion of a mine behind Confederate defenses, resulting in a large \"crater.\" 
The Overland Campaign ended in this state, where hapless picnickers fled in panic at the first major land 
battle of the Civil War. For the point, name this state where the Battles of Fredericksburg and First Bull 
Run were fought, also the site of the longest-serving Confederate capital. 
ANSWER:  
Virginia 
020-13-89-12104 
5. This artist showed bats and owls tormenting a man with his head in his arms in his  
The Sleep of Reason 
Produces Monsters. 
 A man raises an axe over a trampled soldier in the third print from this painter’s 
eighty-two-print series  
The Disasters of War. 
 This painter depicted Napoleon’s troops executing his 
countrymen, in a painting whose companion piece is known as  
The Charge of the Mamelukes. 
 For the 
point, name this Spanish painter of  
The Third of May, 1808. 
ANSWER: Francisco  
Goya 
014-13-89-12105 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 2     Page  1 of 6 
6. This man ordered that a statue of the god Hubal (HOO-ball) be destroyed after winning the Battle of the 
Trench against the Quraysh (korr-AISH) tribe. This widower of Khadijah (kuh-DEE-juh) established a 
legally-protected group called \"the People of the Book\" after fleeing his home city in the  
hijra. 
 During his 
life as a merchant, he went to Mount Hira, where the Archangel Gabriel spoke to him. For the point, name 
this sometime resident of Mecca, the final prophet and founder of Islam. 
ANSWER: the Prophet  
Muhammad 
 [or  
Mahomet 
] 
104-13-89-12106 
7. The ROS special forces group was originally chartered to fight this organization. In 1967, this 
organization was first weakened with the assistance of former members known as \"pentiti.\" Members of 
this organization were aided by \"the Sentence Killer,\" a corrupt judge who reversed the results of the Maxi 
Trial. Six years later, Salvatore Riina was captured, ending his status as \"Capo dei Capi\" of this 
organization. For the point, identify this Sicilian organized crime phenomenon. 
ANSWER: the  
mafia 
 [or La  
Cosa Nostra 
] 
019-13-89-12107 
8. This production featured Kenny Delmar as the Secretary of the Interior, even though Delmar was 
impersonating Franklin Roosevelt's voice. Its director played Professor Pierson, and an early narrator, Carl 
Phillips, was incinerated by a heat-ray. This was the seventeenth episode of  
The Mercury Theater on the 
Air. 
 For the point, identify this October 30, 1938 radio broadcast directed by Orson Welles, which scared 
Americans with an adaptation of a H.G. Wells novel. 
ANSWER: Orson Welles's  
The  War of the Worlds 
 broadcast 
052-13-89-12108 
9. Richard Bowyer Smith introduced the \"stump-jump\" form of this device in Australia. The 
\"boustrephedon\" (boo-STREF-uh-don) form of writing was named for its resemblance to the pattern 
produced by this device. A 1936 film about the Dust Bowl blames this device for \"breaking the plains,\" 
opposing the popular nineteenth-century theory that \"rain follows\" this machine. For the point, name this 
piece of farming equipment which upturns the soil for planting. 
ANSWER:  
plow 
019-13-89-12109 
10. According to Herodotus, this man's mother, Agariste (ah-gar-IS-tay), dreamed of giving birth to a lion. 
His father Xanthippus (zan-THIP-iss) was ostracized but returned to command at the Battle of Mycale 
(my-CAH-lay). This man paid for the production of Aeschylus’s (ESK-uh-liss-iz) Persian trilogy. After 
overseeing the ostracism of Cimon (KYE-mon), he supervised the building of the Long Walls. For the 
point, name this Athenian statesman under whose government the Parthenon was built. 
ANSWER:  
Pericles 
030-13-89-12110 
11. This man’s Secretary of the Treasury, Robert Walker, saw to the passage of the Walker Tariff, which 
was a concession to Britain in the Oregon Territory dispute. His administration authorized the Smithsonian 
Institution and the creation of the Department of the Interior, and his oratorical style earned him the 
nickname \"Napoleon of the stump.\" For the point, name this man, the first \"dark horse\" Presidential 
nominee, who served as President of the United States during the Mexican War. 
ANSWER: James Knox  
Polk 
030-13-89-12111 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 2     Page  2 of 6 
12. Albert Speer considered escaping to this location, which was occupied by the United States from 1941 
to 1945 to keep the Nazis away. The Peary Land peninsula at the extreme north of this landmass is free of 
ice caps. This landmass is divided into four municipalities surrounding the capital of Nuuk. Erik the Red 
founded the first Norse settlements on this landmass, which changed hands from Norway to Denmark. For 
the point, name this world's largest island, which is very cold despite its name. 
ANSWER:  
Greenland 
 [or  
 Kalaallit Nunaat 
] 
020-13-89-12112 
13. This scientist excavated at Stonehenge and kept stones of coal on his land near Down House in order to 
study earthworms. The Linnaean Society presented this man's work at the same time as that of Alfred 
Russell Wallace. John Stevens Henslow was responsible for this scientist becoming part of an expedition 
with Robert Fitzroy. For the point, name this English scientist whose time on the  
Beagle 
 led him to develop 
a theory of natural selection in his  
On the Origin of Species. 
ANSWER: Charles Robert  
Darwin 
023-13-89-12113 
14. In 1997, sixty-two people were killed outside a museum in this country near Deir el-Bahri 
(ah-DEER-el-BA-ha-ree). The temple complex of Karnak is located in this country, the home of the Coptic 
Church. Two rock temples in this country were relocated in 1968 to avoid flooding from the Aswan High 
Dam. Its capital, the \"city of a thousand minarets,\" is home to Tahrir Square. For the point, name this 
country on the western side of the Sinai Peninsula in northeastern Africa. 
ANSWER: Arab Republic of  
Egypt 
190-13-89-12114 
15. The family of Ken Saro-Wiwa sued a company producing this product for human rights abuses in 
Nigeria. Lázaro Cárdenas nationalized the resources of these companies to create Pemex. Mohammed 
Mossadegh (moh-SAH-deck) nationalized the assets of one of these companies in Iran. That company's 
successor expects to pay 7.8 billion dollars to settle claims brought for the Deepwater Horizon disaster. For 
the point, name these companies that include Shell and BP. 
ANSWER:  
oil 
 companies [or  
petroleum 
 companies; or  
gasoline 
 companies] 
121-13-89-12115 
16. In a novel about this conflict, a painter depicts himself and his lover as Orestes and Electra. This 
conflict is the setting for  
The Gods are Athirst 
 and another novel, in which a fanatical wine-shop owner is a 
major character. During this conflict, the words \"It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done\" 
are spoken by Sydney Carton after switching places with Charles Darnay. For the point, name this conflict 
explored by Charles Dickens in  
A Tale of Two Cities. 
ANSWER:  
French Revolution 
020-13-89-12116 
17. This decree built on a previous document signed at Amboise (AM-bwah) after the Massacre of Vassy 
(VAH-say). This document’s two \"letters patent\" established the safe cities of Montauban and La Rochelle. 
Upon hearing of it, Pope Clement VII said \"this crucifies me.\" Revoked by the Edict of Fontainebleau 
(FAHN-ten-blow), this law was promulgated at the end of the Wars of Religion by Henry IV. For the point, 
name this 1598 decree that granted rights to Huguenots. 
ANSWER: Edict of  
Nantes 
 (NONT, but accept NONZ, NONTZ, etc.) 
232-13-89-12117 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 2     Page  3 of 6 
18. A note written in the wake of this event grouped it with similar fates that befell the  
Falaba 
 and  
Cushing. 
 This event might have been avoided had William Turner followed directives to keep away from 
the shore and to zigzag. This event was ordered by Walther Schwieger on  
U-20. 
 For the point, name this 
1915 event that caused the death of 128 Americans, which helped move the United States towards war with 
Germany after a submarine sank a British cruise liner. 
ANSWER: sinking of the RMS  
Lusitania 
023-13-89-12118 
19. Edward Coke may have used torture to coax a confession about this subject from Thomas Wintour. 
Plans for this event were tipped off by a letter, possibly sent by Francis Tresham, that warned Lord 
Monteagle to stay home. The men involved in this action sought to make Elizabeth of Bohemia a Catholic 
puppet queen following the death of James I. For the point, identify this Robert Catesby-led plot to blow up 
the House of Lords on November 5th, 1605 with the assistance of Guy Fawkes. 
ANSWER:  
Gunpowder 
 Plot 
233-13-89-12119 
20. A person with this surname wrote the first version of the Law of Large Numbers in the  
Ars Conjectandi 
(con-yek-TAHN-dee). Another person with this last name described a series of coin flips yielding infinite 
expected value in the St. Petersburg Paradox. Leonhard Euler (OY-lurr) studied under this family's Johann, 
and was a contemporary of its Daniel, who eventually returned to Basel, Switzerland. For the point, give 
this surname that is used for a crucial principle in fluid dynamics. 
ANSWER:  
Bernoulli 
 family [or the  
Bernoullis 
; or Jakob  
Bernoulli 
; or Daniel  
Bernoulli 
] 
232-13-89-12120 
21. A college football team in this state used an American Indian mascot named Little Red who was 
eventually banned from games. That team from this state has the FBS record of forty-seven straight wins. 
The two major programs here play each other in the annual \"Bedlam\" game. The most successful program 
in this state has fielded players such as Sam Bradford and Adrien Peterson. For the point, name this state 
where coaches including Bob Stoops have led the Sooners. 
ANSWER:  
Oklahoma 
052-13-89-12121 
22. This American denounced Italy's betrayal of France in the \"Stab in the back\" speech. He vacationed at a 
cottage at Campobello Island, and he used the song \"Happy Days Are Here Again\" on the campaign trail. 
Many of this man's speeches referred to his small dog, Fala. This politician gave the \"Four Freedoms\" 
speech and said the only thing people needed to fear was \"fear itself.\" For the point, name this President 
who gave \"fireside chats\" to describe his New Deal policies. 
ANSWER:  ranklin Delano  
F Roosevelt 
 [or  
FDR 
; prompt on  
Roosevelt 
] 
052-13-89-12122 
23. A saint from this region was exiled and founded an abbey on the island of Iona. Monks from that abbey 
founded by Saint Columba may have started the Book of Kells, which was finished in this region. Another 
saint who worked in this region wrote a letter that condemned the treatment of Christians by Coroticus. 
That saint legendarily drove the snakes from this island. For the point, name this island where the Holy 
Trinity was explained using a shamrock by Saint Patrick. 
ANSWER:  
Ireland 
 [or  
Eire 
] 
023-13-89-12123 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 2     Page  4 of 6 
24. This election was delayed by a defective certificate from Georgia. This was the first election that 
frequent candidate Charles Cotesworth Pinckney ran in. As a result of this election, the Twelfth 
Amendment ended separate voting for President and Vice-President. The winner of this election said \"we 
are all Federalists, we are all Republicans\" to emphasize the peaceful transfer of power. For the point, name 
this election in which John Adams was defeated for re-election by Thomas Jefferson. 
ANSWER: United States Presidential Election of  
1800 
020-13-89-12124 
25. In 1944, the West Loch (LOCK) Disaster took place at this location. Events at this location resulted in 
the removal of Husband Kimmel from command. An event here began with the code phrase \"Climb Mount 
Niitaka,\" (NEE-ee-TAH-kuh) and involved the use of the phrase \"Tora! Tora! Tora!\" to indicate a surprise 
attack was successful. This location is home to the USS  
Arizona 
 memorial. For the point, name this 
Hawaiian naval base attacked on December 7, 1941, by the Japanese. 
ANSWER: Naval Station  
Pearl Harbor 
 [prompt on  
Hawaii 
 until it is read; prompt on  
Oahu 
 until \"naval 
base\" is read] 
052-13-89-12125 
26. This policy was finalized in the Edict of Thessalonica and was strengthened when Gratian 
(GRAY-shun) refused to take the title \"Pontifex Maximus.\" This process was finalized when Theodosius 
ordered all subjects to conform, and the last emperor to deviate from this policy was Julian the Apostate. A 
victory for this policy came at the Battle of Milvian Bridge, when Constantine allegedly saw a flaming sign 
in the sky. For the point, identify this process by which the Roman Empire changed religions. 
ANSWER:  
Christianization 
 of the Roman Empire [or anything reasonable that mentions the adoption of  
Christianity 
 or making  
Christianity 
 the official religion] 
019-13-89-12126 
27. This man’s last words are frequently erroneously cited as \"Tell them I said something.\" Shortly after 
losing the Second Battle of Agua Prieta to Plutarco Calles (KAI-ace), this man attacked Columbus in an 
international incident. This commander of the Division of the North rebelled against President Venustiano 
Carranza at the same time as Emiliano Zapata. For the point, name this Mexican revolutionary who led 
raids into the United States in 1916. 
ANSWER: Francisco \"Pancho\"  
Villa 
 [or Jose Doroteo  
Arango 
 Arambula] 
052-13-89-12127 
28. This opera’s second act concludes with a chorus on behalf of prisoners, and the male lead in this opera 
is introduced with an aria addressing the title character as \"heavenly,\" \"Se quel guerrier io fossi\" (SAY kel 
geh-ree-AIR oh FAH-see). This opera was commissioned by the Khedive of Egypt, Ismail Pasha. This 
opera's aria \"O patria mia\" is sung as the female lead waits for her beloved Radames (RAH-duh-mayz). For 
the point, name this opera about an Ethiopian princess, composed by Giuseppe Verdi. 
ANSWER:  
Aida 
014-13-89-12128 
29. John Filson's fictionalization of this man's life is responsible for much of his popularity. This man's 
oldest son James was killed in Lord Dunmore's War. The Munros in  
The Last of the Mohicans 
 are based on 
this man's daughter Jemima and her friends, who were captured by an Indian raiding party. This man 
founded a \"borough\" in Kentucky at the terminus of the Wilderness Road, which he blazed through the 
Cumberland Gap. For the point, name this early American frontiersman. 
ANSWER: Daniel  
Boone 
020-13-89-12129 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 2     Page  5 of 6 
30. This country's first president led the Six Point movement and founded the Awami (uh-WAH-mee) 
League. George Harrison founded a benefit concert for this Mujibur Rahman-led country in 1970, after five 
hundred thousand people were killed here by Cyclone Bhola. This Muslim state fought a liberation war in 
1971 to gain independence. For the point, name this country, once known as \"East Pakistan,\" a low-lying 
country east of India. 
ANSWER: People’s Republic of  
Bangladesh 
190-13-89-12130 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set B     Bee Round 2     Page  6 of 6 
