National History Bowl 11 
Round 18 
First Quarter 
1. This founder of memetics engaged in an debate with Stephen Jay Gould over whether the gene is the 
central unit of evolution. He wrote  
The Greatest Show on Earth 
, a catalog of evidence for evolution, and  
The God Delusion 
, in which he argued that religion is false. For 10 points, name this British biologist who 
writes books promoting atheism. 
ANSWER: Richard  
Dawkins 
021-11-31-18101 
2. According to legend, this man yelled, \"Quintilius Varus, give me back my legions!\" upon hearing about 
the Battle of Teutoberg Forest. He gave himself the title of \"Princeps,\" or First Citizen. At the Battle of 
Actium he defeated his rival, Marc Antony. For 10 points, name this nephew of Julius Caesar, the first 
Roman Emperor. 
ANSWER:  
Octavian 
 [or Caesar  
Augustus 
; or  
Octavius 
] 
021-11-31-18102 
3. Three members of this organization were killed when a homemade bomb detonated in a Manhattan 
townhouse in 1970. It attempted to \"bring the war home\" in 1969's Days of Rage. In 2008, Senator Barack 
Obama was criticized for his associations with a former leader of this organization, Bill Ayers. For 10 
points, name this radical left-wing group of the 1970's that had a meteorological name. 
ANSWER:  
Weather Underground 
 [or  
Weathermen 
; prompt on  
Students 
 for a  
Democratic Society 
; 
prompt on  
SDS 
] 
030-11-31-18103 
4. This battle led to a treaty that was signed in the palace of Bratislava, the Peace of Pressburg. The turning 
point of this battle came when the attackers captured the Pratzen Heights. This battle led to the dissolution 
of the Holy Roman Empire. For 10 points, name this December 1805 battle in which Napoleon divided his 
army against a larger force and still beat the combined forces of Russia and Austria. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Austerlitz 
 [or Battle of the  
Three Emperors 
] 
021-11-31-18104 
5. This man claimed that Americans speak \"incomparably better English than the people of the Mother 
country\" in  
The American Democrat 
. In a novel by this author of  
The Spy 
, Major Duncan Heyward escorts 
the Munro girls from Fort Edward to Fort William Henry, and Chingachgook's son Uncas is the title 
character. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Last of the Mohicans 
. 
ANSWER: James Fenimore  
Cooper 
030-11-31-18105 
6. This war featured the battles of Slankamen and Zenta. Eugene of Savoy won his first battle during this 
war ended by the Treaty of Karlowitz. It began when the losing side unsuccessfully besieged Vienna and 
was driven back by John Sobieski. For 10 points, name this war in which Venice, Poland, Russia, and 
Austria allied to re-conquer much of Eastern Europe from the Ottoman Empire. 
ANSWER:  
Great Turkish 
 War [or  
War of the Holy League 
; prompt on  
Turkish 
 War] 
021-11-31-18106 
7. This man designated his childhood friend O.K. Allen as his successor as governor when he was elected 
to the U.S. Senate. His son Russell wrote 1956 legislation that extended Social Security benefits to disabled 
people. He wrote a book entitled  
My First Days in the White House 
. \"Every man a king\" was the slogan of 
his Share-the-Wealth program. For 10 points, name this Louisiana politician nicknamed \"Kingfish.\" 
ANSWER: Huey  
Long 
030-11-31-18107 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. William Kempe backed out for funding the construction of this building, leaving two brothers with the 
surname Burbage each with a quarter stake in the project. Though it burned down as a result of a cannon 
firing within it, it was rebuilt and operated for another 28 years until it was closed by the Puritans in 1642. 
For 10 points, name this London performing house associated with the plays of William Shakespeare. 
ANSWER:  
Globe 
 Theatre 
040-11-31-18108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 18 
Second Quarter 
1.  
Lorrin Thurston led a group in this polity known as the Committee of Safety, which worked with 
U.S. Minister John Stevens. In the mid-1800’s, it was briefly occupied by the British in the Paulet 
Affair. Walter Gibson was one of the chief proponent’s of its 1887 constitution known as the (*) 
“Bayonet Constitution.” Grover Cleveland commissioned the Blount Report to investigate abuses in this 
polity, although its overall conclusion would be rebuked by the later Morgan Report. Sanford Dole was the 
first governor of this polity, using his power to establish large pineapple plantations. For 10 points, name 
this polity annexed as a U.S. territory in 1898 following the overthrow of Queen Lili’uokalani. 
ANSWER: Kingdom of  
Hawaii 
BONUS: Which Roman Catholic priest was later canonized for his work in the leper colony on Molokai? 
ANSWER: Father  
Damien 
064-11-31-18101 
2.  
A popular chant during this event consisted of the letters \"KZ.\" This event, code-named 
\"Operation Rose,\" was approved after plans for a blockade were scrapped, and two months before it 
began, Walter Ulbricht flat-out denied that anyone was considering it. This event occurred under the 
direction of (*) 
 Erich Honecker, and its result was euphemistically called \"anti-fascist protective.\" It 
involved boarding up the Brandenburg Gate, closing the S-Bahn and U-Bahn lines, and assembling barbed 
wire barriers on wooden and concrete posts. For 10 points, name this event that began on August 13, 1961 
and literally divided a German city in two. 
ANSWER:  
construction 
 of the  
Berlin Wall 
 [accept equivalents for \"construction\"] 
BONUS: The best-known crossing of the Berlin Wall was this junction of Frederick Street and Zimmer 
Street. 
ANSWER:  
Checkpoint Charlie 
003-11-31-18102 
3.  
William Wirt’s “Gary Plan” emphasized that people with this profession should be capable of 
handling a “platoon system.” An experimentation in decentralizing the Ocean Hill-Brownsville area 
of New York City led to a city-wide strike of these people in 1968, closely following a state-wide strike 
they put on in Florida. The training of these people in the late 19th century was largely based on the 
system established by (*) 
 Horace Mann in Massachusetts. Currently, the largest union in the U.S. serves 
these workers. For 10 points, name this profession represented by the NEA. 
ANSWER:  
teacher 
s [accept equivalents] 
BONUS: This man's thesaurus was first published in Britain in 1852. 
ANSWER: Dr. Peter Mark  
Roget 
015-11-31-18103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
One character in this movie shaves his head so he can pose as a monk and rescue a kidnapped boy. 
Other characters in this movie include Shino, the daughter of a farmer named Manzo, and a skilled 
swordsman named Kyuzo. The title group of this film, whose members include Kikuchiyo and 
Kambei, is hired by villagers to (*) 
 protect their village from bandits. It was adapted into a John Sturges 
film starring Eli Wallach and Steve McQueen,  
The Magnificent Seven 
. For 10 points, name this Akira 
Kurosawa film about a group of Japanese warriors. 
ANSWER:  
Seven Samurai 
 [or  
Shichinin no Samurai 
] 
BONUS: Another well-known Kurosawa film is what tale of Tajomaru based on two stories of Akutagawa? 
ANSWER:  
Rashomon 
024-11-31-18104 
5.  
This event prompted the intentional destruction of an unfinished sixty gun frigate called the USS  
Columbia . It caused an impromptu session of Congress to be held at Blodgett’s Hotel. This event was 
interrupted by a freak tornado, and it was ordered by Robert Ross in retaliation for the looting that 
had occurred after the Battle of York. This action occurred after the Battle of (*) 
 Bladensburg, and 
according to one story prompted Dolly Madison to cut a portrait of George Washington from its frame. For 
10 points, name this low point for the Americans during the War of 1812. 
ANSWER:  
burning 
 of Washington  
D.C. 
 [or the  
Battle of Washington D.C. 
; or the  
sack of Washington 
D.C. 
] 
BONUS: The White House was designed by what nineteenth-century Irish architect? 
ANSWER: James  
Hoban 
015-11-31-18105 
6.  
This country’s national day celebrates the establishment of a settlement at Port Jackson. This 
country’s highest point is named after a Polish general in the American Revolution, while its lowest 
point is located in its largest lake, Lake (*) 
 Eyre. In its southwest is a vast, nearly treeless area known as 
the Nullarbor Plain. One province in this country, which was formerly known as Van Diemen’s Land, is 
the island of Tasmania, and major cities in this country include Darwin and Perth. For 10 points, name this 
country whose capital is Canberra. 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Australia 
BONUS: What successor to Kevin Rudd is the current Prime Minister of Australia? 
ANSWER: Julia  
Gillard 
024-11-31-18106 
7.  
During this party’s last two presidential elections, it nominated Georgia politician and Ku Klux 
Klan advocate Thomas E. Watson. Earlier, this party nominated Wharton Barker and Ignatius 
Donnelly, who had authored the preamble to its (*) 
 Omaha Platform. This party’s greatest electoral 
success came with James B. Weaver, but it came to greater prominence four year later when it supported 
the “fusion” Democrat and “Cross of Gold” orator Williams Jennings Bryan. For 10 points, name this third 
party which advocated bimetallism and radical agrarianism. 
ANSWER:  
Populist 
 party [or the  
People’s Party 
] 
BONUS: Bryan gave his \"Cross of Gold Speech\" and had a likely chance of winning in what election year? 
ANSWER: Election of  
1896 
015-11-31-18107 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8.  
During this operation, one side was slowed down by performing a full encirclement at Lille. Forces 
on the ground during this operation were commanded by Lord Gort, while Admiral B. H. Ramsay 
was responsible for providing logistics for this operation. This operation was able to succeed thanks 
to an order given by Field Marshal Gerd von Rundstedt to rest his troops following an assault at 
Arras. The (*) 
 “little ships” of this operation were celebrated in the film Mrs. Miniver. A speech declaring 
that “we shall fight with growing confidence” and that “we shall fight on the seas and oceans” was given 
by Winston Churchill following this operation. For 10 points, name this operation where Allied forces 
evacuated from France in 1940. 
ANSWER:  
Dunkirk 
 Evacuation [or  
Operation Dynamo 
; or Battle of  
Dunkirk 
] 
BONUS: In his first speech to the House of Commons, Winston Churchill quoted Teddy Roosevelt when 
he said he had nothing to offer but what four things? 
ANSWER:  
blood toil tears 
,  ,  , and  
sweat 
 [accept in any order] 
094-11-31-18108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 18 
Third Quarter 
WORLD WAR II IN AMERICA 
Name these Americans associated with World War II. 
A. The four-time U.S. president who presided over American involvement. 
ANSWER: Franklin Delano  
Roosevelt 
B. The cultural icon associated with the phrase \"We Can Do It!\" 
ANSWER:  
Rosie 
 the Riveter 
C. The eccentric general known for slapping a fatigued soldier. 
ANSWER: George  
Patton 
D. The pilot who led a namesake 1942 bombing raid on Tokyo. 
ANSWER: James  
Doolittle 
E. The commander who vowed to return to the Philippines. 
ANSWER: Douglas  
MacArthur 
F. The head of Allied forces in Europe who later was the first supreme commander of NATO. 
ANSWER: Dwight David  
Eisenhower 
G. The missionary who was contracted to work as an American spy in China. 
ANSWER: John  
Birch 
H. The pilot whose bold actions led his  
Enterprise 
 squadron of bombers to sink two Japanese carriers at the 
Battle of Midway. 
ANSWER: Clarence Wade  
McClusky 
040-11-31-1810-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THEY FOUGHT THE LAW (AND THE LAW WON) 
Against whom did the law win… 
A. After Henry Methvin set this couple up for an ambush? 
ANSWER:  
Bonnie and Clyde 
 [or Bonnie  
Parker 
 and Clyde  
Barrow 
] 
B. After Thomas Crittenden offered a $10,000 reward accepted by Robert Ford? 
ANSWER: Jesse Woodson  
James 
C. With the help of the \"Untouchables\"? 
ANSWER: Alphonse Gabriel  
Capone 
D. With the help of the \"Lady in Red\"? 
ANSWER: John  
Dillinger 
E. After he succeeded John Dillinger as \"Public Enemy No. 1\"? 
ANSWER: Charles Arthur \"Pretty Boy\"  
Floyd 
F. After a photograph of five members of this gang fell into the hands of Pinkerton detectives? 
ANSWER:  
Wild Bunch 
 [or  
Hole in the Wall 
 Gang; prompt on  
Butch 
 Cassidy and the  
Sundance 
 Kid; 
prompt on Robert LeRoy  
Parker 
 and Harry  
Longabaugh 
] 
G. But let this group's leader, Albert Anastasia, get away with a one-year sentence via plea bargain? 
ANSWER:  
Murder, Inc. 
H. By convicting this Kiowa chief of the Salt Creek Massacre? 
ANSWER:  
Satanta 
003-11-31-1810-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE 1930's 
Give these terms or people related to 1930's history. 
A. The term for the series of storms and agricultural disasters that swept through the Midwest. 
ANSWER:  
dust bowl 
B. The major economic bust that occurred during that decade. 
ANSWER:  
Great Depression 
C. The legislative program introduced by FDR that included the \"Hundred Days\" period of reforms. 
ANSWER:  
New Deal 
D. The leader of the Works Progress Administration. 
ANSWER: Harry Lloyd  
Hopkins 
E. The company set up by Herbert Hoover to loan out money to bankrupt businesses. 
ANSWER:  
Reconstruction Finance Corporation 
 [or  
RFC 
] 
F. The force of World War I veterans led by Walter Waters that marched on Washington. 
ANSWER:  
Bonus Army 
G. The agency that helped to bring power to many farms across the nation. 
ANSWER:  
Rural Electrification Administration 
 [or  
REA 
] 
H. The act that set quotas on crop production and was declared illegal in  
U.S. V. Butler 
. 
ANSWER:  
Agricultural Adjustment Act 
 of 1933 [or  
AAA 
] 
040-11-31-1810-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 18 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
This religion is promoted by institutions such as the Professor's World Peace Academy, and the 
daughter-in-law of this religion's founder, Nansook Hong, wrote an exposé on this religion. Members 
of this religion believe that the world was created from the dual expressions of God's inner nature, 
(+)  Sung Sang and Hyung Sang. Its founder was excommunicated from the Presbyterian Church and 
founded the conservative  Washington Times  newspaper. In this religion, the creation of the kingdom 
of God on Earth is promoted through mass (*) 
 wedding ceremonies. For 10 points, name this religious 
movement founded by Reverend Sun Myung Moon. 
ANSWER:  
Unification Church 
 [or Holy Spirit Association for the  
Unification 
 of World Christianity; 
prompt on  
Moonies 
] 
030-11-31-18101 
2.  
This river passes near the city of Kettle Falls, although the rapids that give the city its name no 
longer exist. Tributaries of this river include the Okanogan River, and this river passes through the 
artificial Franklin D. Roosevelt Lake. In 1979, the Chief Joseph Dam opened on this river. The 1915 
opening of the Celilo Canal provided access to (+)  Lewiston from this river, although the Celilo Falls 
were eventually flooded by the construction of The Dalles Dam on this river. An important source of 
power in the region comes from the Grand (*) 
 Coulee Dam on this river. It is the largest North American 
river to flow into the Pacific Ocean. For 10 points, name this river that provides much of the border 
between Oregon and Washington State. 
ANSWER:  
Columbia 
 River 
094-11-31-18102 
3.  
Near the end of the work, one character bequeaths a pair of crutches to his son. Earlier, a 
character describes how he spurned a woman who liked to constantly finger her purse, Madam 
Bubble. After being frightened by a pair of lions, the protagonist of this work enters the house of a 
porter where virgins like (+)  Prudence present ancient relics to him. Places visited in this work 
include Beulah and the Valley of Conceit, and at one point in this work, the protagonist gets stuck in 
the Slough of (*) 
 Despond. This work centers on an expedition made from the City of Destruction to the 
City of Zion. At one point, the protagonist meets up with Evangelist, who warns him about Vanity Fair. For 
10 points, name this religious allegory about a man named Christian, by John Bunyan. 
ANSWER: The  
Pilgrim’s Progress 
 from This World to That Which Is to Come 
094-11-31-18103 
4.  
This country’s tenuous peace was tested by the 2007 attempted airport assassination of its Prime 
Minsiter Guillaume Soro. The journalist Guy-Andre Kieffer disappeared in this country, which had 
its entire air force destroyed by the (+)  French peace keeping mission Operation Unicorn in 2004. 
Those tensions reignited when a disputed election caused FNCI leader Alassane Ouattara to mobilize 
rebel forces against the official capital of (*) 
 Yamoussoukro and his rival Laurent Gbagbo’s stronghold 
at Abidjan. For 10 points, name this francophone West African nation torn by civil war. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Cote d'Ivoire 
 [or  
Ivory Coast 
] 
015-11-31-18104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
Lactantius's  Treatise on the Anger of God  critiques one argument made by this philosopher, a 
trilemma considered the earliest statement of the problem of evil. This philosopher argued that if 
multiple explanations both account for a set of data, then all should be admitted, though his best 
known contribution to science was his non-deterministic statement of (+)  atomic theory. Known for 
regularly admitting women and slaves to his school, he argued that death was not to be feared and 
founded the Garden. He described the absence of pain, or  aponia , as well as a state of perfect (*) 
tranquility known as  
ataraxia 
. For 10 points, name this Greek philosopher whose namesake philosophical 
school is often unfairly equated to hedonism. 
ANSWER:  
Epicurus 
 [or  
Epikouros 
] 
020-11-31-18105 
6.  
This dictator came to power after the death of his predecessor, Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej 
(GAY-or-gay GAY-or-gay-OO-DAY). In the 1970's, this dictator released his \"July Theses,\" a 
speech that started a miniature version of the (+)  Cultural Revolution in his country. In an attempt to 
create a race of super-children, this ruler gave blood transfusions to infants in the 1980's, leading to a 
generation of HIV-positive children. Over time, this man adopted a more nationalistic policy and 
distanced himself from the Soviet Union, though he did not (*) 
 break with it like Yugoslavia or get 
invaded like Hungary or Czechoslovakia. For 10 points, name this Communist dictator of Romania, 
executed along with his wife Elena on national television in December 1989. 
ANSWER: Nicolae  
Ceausescu 
021-11-31-18106 
7.  
This man owns  Decision  magazine, as well as the film production studio World Wide Pictures. This 
man got his start in broadcasting when he took over the radio show Songs in the Night. This man's 
early career was funded William (+)  Randolph Hearst, who hoped to use this man to promote 
anti-Communism. This man often uses the song \"Just As I Am\" to rally his followers. He calls his 
public appearances \"crusades,\" and they usually consist of him renting a large venue and (*) 
preaching to thousands of people. He may be best known for radio program Hour of Decision, and for his 
many television specials. For 10 points, name this Southern Baptist televangelist and \"pastor to Presidents.\" 
ANSWER: Billy  
Graham 
 [or William Franklin  
Graham 
] 
021-11-31-18107 
8.  
Members of this group delivered the thirty page \"Manifesto of Change\" while commemorating 
this group's organization of The Longest Walk thirty years earlier. One action by this group resulted 
in the dismissal of Louis Bruce from his job after five hundred members of this organization took 
over a (+)  government building for six days. The founders of this group included Clyde Bellecourt 
and Dennis Banks, and spokesmen for it have included Russell Means. John Trudell set up a pirate 
radio station called Radio Free (*) 
 Alcatraz after this group took over that island. For 10 points, name 
this group started in Minneapolis in 1968 that has taken over sites like Wounded Knee to protest the 
treatment of the indigenous population. 
ANSWER:  
American Indian Movement 
 [or  
AIM 
] 
023-11-31-18108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 18     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
