VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 1 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A self portrait of this artist wearing a cross on his black tunic and holding a palette can be seen in one of 
his paintings. He included a cupid holding a mirror in his  
Rokeby Venus 
 and painted the results of the siege 
of a Dutch town in  
The Surrender of Breda 
. This artist painted a girl stepping on a dog and a dwarf in a 
dress as the title attendants of the Infanta Margarita as court painter for Philip IV of Spain. For 10 points, 
name this Spanish painter of  
Las Meninas 
. 
ANSWER: Diego  
Velazquez 
015-10-18-01101 
2. The doctrine of this practice is derived from a conversation between Jesus and Nicodemus in John 3:5. 
One figure famous for performing this practice called himself a “voice in the wilderness” and was 
beheaded by Herod Antipas. A now-repudiated doctrine held that infants who died without undergoing this 
went to limbo. It was practiced by a certain man named John near the River Jordan. For 10 points, name 
this sacrament in which water washes away original sin. 
ANSWER:  
Baptism 
080-10-18-01102 
3. These entities are termed “upside down” when they have negative equity. Ones which leave a lump 
amount left over at maturity are the “balloon” variety. Retired people over the age of sixty-two have the 
option of obtaining a “reverse” type of them. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae were created after the Great 
Depression to start a secondary market for these loans. For 10 points, name these loans backed by houses 
and other property. 
ANSWER:  
mortgage 
s 
015-10-18-01103 
4. One character in this novel marries his true love after being disinherited for his earlier relationship with 
Lucy Steele. Another character in this novel, Fanny, refuses to allow her brother to love her sister-in-law, 
driving the latter to depart for the cottage of John Middleton. One of this novel’s protagonists enters into a 
whirlwind romance with John Willoughby, who soon abandons her. This novel resolves with Colonel 
Brandon and Edward Ferrars respectively marrying Elinor and Marianne Dashwood. For 10 points, name 
this Jane Austen novel which contrasts Elinor’s good judgment with Marianne’s impulsiveness. 
ANSWER:  
Sense and Sensibility 
080-10-18-01104 
5. This leader was targeted by Operation Verano, which ended after his forces won the Battle of Yaguajay 
(yah-goo-AH-hay). In honor of the date of his failed attack on the Moncada Barracks, this man named his 
revolutionary movement after the Twenty-Sixth of July. This leader overthrew Fulgencio Batista 
(fool-HEN-see-oo buh-TEES-tuh) and was the target of the Bay of Pigs Invasion. This man became ill in 
2006, leading him to transfer his duties to his younger brother Raúl. For 10 points, name this ruler who 
established a Communist regime in Cuba. 
ANSWER: Fidel  
Castro 
 Ruz 
079-10-18-01105 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  1 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. Clozapine can cause a reduction in the number of these cells. They can be classified according to the 
presence or absence of granules, and those that contain granules include basophils and neutrophils. One 
class of these is lymphocytes, which may be natural killer cells, B cells, or T cells, which regulate the 
immune system. For 10 points, name these cells of the immune system also known as leukocytes. 
ANSWER:  
white blood cell 
s [accept  
leukocyte 
s before mention; accept  
neutrophil 
s before \"granules\"] 
024-10-18-01106 
7. This man's victories included overcoming a surprise attack at the Battle of Marengo and defeating Tsar 
Alexander I at the Battle of Austerlitz. This man devised the Continental System as a blockade against 
Great Britain. The Peninsular War allowed this man to place his brother Joseph on the throne of Spain. This 
man was sent to St. Helena after he returned to power during the \"Hundred Days,\" which followed his 
earlier exile to Elba. For 10 points, name this \"Emperor of the French\" who suffered a final defeat at 
Waterloo. 
ANSWER:  
Napoleon 
 Bonaparte [or Napoleon  
Bonaparte 
] 
080-10-18-01107 
8. This word defines a type of computer graphics that codes instructions for drawing, rather than the color 
of each grid in a pixel. In addition to that alternative to raster graphics, this word also refers to structures 
such as plasmids that can be used to transfer genetic material, and to hosts that transmit pathogens to other 
hosts. In physics, this word refers to quantities such as torque and velocity, which require both a magnitude 
and direction. For 10 points, give this word that is contrasted with scalar. 
ANSWER:  
vector 
003-10-18-01108 
9. This author of the satirical abolitionist tract \"Sidi Mehemet Ibrahim on The Slave Trade\" used the 
pseudonym \"Silence Dogood\" for a series of letters to the  
New England Courant 
. This man urged colonial 
cooperation in a cartoon showing a divided snake with the caption \"Join or Die,\" which supported his 
Albany Plan of Union. With John Adams, this man revised Jefferson’s first draft of the Declaration of 
Independence. For 10 points, name this Founding Father who published  
Poor Richard’s Almanack 
 and flew 
a kite in a lightning storm. 
ANSWER: Benjamin  
Franklin 
082-10-18-01109 
10. Often depicted as bearded man, either green or black in color and swathed like a mummy, this Egyptian 
deity is credited with the introduction of agriculture. In myth he is drowned and dismembered, only to be 
resurrected later by his wife. For 10 points, name this god, husband of Isis, an archetype of death and 
rebirth, who became the Egyptian lord of the dead. 
ANSWER:  
Osiris 
045-10-18-01110 
11. This principle explains why there is decreased solubility or ionization in a molecule through the 
common ion effect. This principle does not apply after the introduction of a catalyst to a system. Stresses 
on a system, such as a change in pressure, temperature, or concentration, cause the changes noted by this 
principle. For 10 points, name this principle named for a Frenchman that describes how a chemical system 
in equilibrium will respond to changes in order to establish a new equilibrium. 
ANSWER: Le  
Chatelier 
's Principle [or Le  
Chatelier-Braun 
 Principle] 
023-10-18-01111 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  2 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This city’s West End was demolished to create Government Center in a disastrous 1950s urban renewal 
project. Frederic Law Olmsted designed the Emerald Necklace network of parks for this city, and its light 
rail Green Line is the oldest still-operating subway in America. This city’s Shawmut Peninsula was more 
than doubled in size with land reclamation, adding areas such as the Public Garden and the Back Bay with 
land from Beacon Hill. For 10 points, name this home of the Big Dig and largest city in Massachusetts. 
ANSWER:  
Boston 
082-10-18-01112 
13. Elias Boudinot edited this people’s newspaper, the  
Phoenix 
. With commissioners William Carroll and 
John F. Schermerhorn, this people signed the Treaty of New Echota (eh-CHO-tah). The Supreme Court 
ruled that this people was a “domestic dependent nation” in the case of this people versus Georgia. 
Sequoyah (sih-KOY-ah) created this people's alphabet. Andrew Jackson used the Indian Removal Act to 
justify the relocation of this people to Oklahoma. For 10 points, name this Native American tribe that 
marched along the Trail of Tears. 
ANSWER:  
Cherokee 
080-10-18-01113 
14. A powdered form of this element is extracted via the Wöhler process. This element’s oxide is usually 
extracted from bauxite via the Bayer process, and occurs naturally as corundum. Industrially, the 
Hall-Héroult process produces this most abundant metal in the Earth’s crust. For 10 points, name this 
element with atomic number thirteen that is used to make soda cans. 
ANSWER:  
aluminum 
 [or  
aluminium 
; or  ] 
Al 
079-10-18-01114 
15. Walker Evans collaborated with author James Agee on a book photographing families affected by this 
event, entitled  
Let Us Now Praise Famous Men. 
 Margaret Bourke-White's  
You Have Seen Their Faces 
 also 
shows photos of people experiencing this historical event. One of the most iconic images of the effects of 
this event depicts Florence Owens Thompson, in Dorothea Lange's photo  
Migrant Mother. 
 For 10 points, 
identify this large-scale economic catastrophe of the 1930s. 
ANSWER: the Great  
Depression 
 [or the  
Dust Bowl 
] 
019-10-18-01115 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  3 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 1 
Directed Round 
1A.  Name the measure that is the square root of the variance and has a value of 68.2% for its first case on a 
normal distribution. 
ANSWER:  
standard deviation 
1B.  What English poet wrote  
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner 
 and \"Kubla Khan\"? 
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor  
Coleridge 
2A.  What English number is indicated by the words “viginti” (wehg-IN-tee) in Latin, “veinte” (VEN-tay) 
in Spanish, and “vingt” (VEN-tay) in French? 
ANSWER:  
twenty 
2B.  What actor starred with Mark Wahlberg in  
The Other Guys 
, in addition to roles like Ron Burgundy in  
Anchorman 
 and Ricky Bobby in  
Talladega Nights 
? 
ANSWER: Will  
Ferrell 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the mean of the set of numbers {1, 3, 5, 7}? 
ANSWER:  
4 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. Solve the system of equations 2x + 2y = 8 and 2x - 2y = 4. 
ANSWER:  
x = 3 
 and  
y = 1 
4A.  Name the literary form used by  
The Faerie Queene 
 and  
Pilgrim's Progress 
 that uses symbolism in a 
story to give a message for outside the story. 
ANSWER:  
allegory 
4B.  What Elton John musical won the 2009 Tony Award for Best Musical and tells the story of a boy 
caught up in the 1984-1985 U.K. coal miners’ strike who longs to be a ballet dancer? 
ANSWER:  
Billy Elliot  the Musical 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. If a cube's surface area and volume are the same, what is the 
length of one of the cube's sides? 
ANSWER:  
6 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the probability of drawing a black sock from a 
drawer which contains 4 black socks, 2 orange socks and thrice as many red socks as the sum of the black 
and orange socks? 
ANSWER:  
1/6 
 [or  
1:6 
] 
6A.  What name is given to the government that led Germany from 1918 until 1933? 
ANSWER:  
Weimar 
 Republic 
6B.  What Spanish Cubist painter went through a Blue Period and created such works as  
Three Musicians 
and  
Guernica 
? 
ANSWER: Pablo Ruiz  
Picasso 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the difference between 25 squared and 26 squared? 
ANSWER:  
51 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. If the hypotenuse and longest leg of a right triangle have a 
difference of exactly one, what are their lengths if the short leg of the right triangle is of length 9? 
ANSWER:   and  
40 41 
 [accept in any order] 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  4 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8A.  What longtime Democratic congressman from Harlem has been facing ethics and tax evasion charges 
since 2008? 
ANSWER: Charles Bernard “Charlie”  
Rangel 
8B.  What Austrian psychologist founded psychoanalysis, developed the idea of the id, ego, and superego, 
and wrote  
The Interpretation of Dreams 
? 
ANSWER: Sigmund  
Freud 
 [or Sigismund Schlomo  
Freud 
] 
9A.  The  
Odyssey 
 and the  
Iliad 
 are traditionally thought to have been authored by what blind poet? 
ANSWER:  
Homer 
9B.  Considered the first microbiologist, name the sixteenth century Dutchman who suffered from 
myoclonus and observed bacteria with a microscope made from soda glass. 
ANSWER: Antonie Philips van  
Leeuwenhoek 
 (LEY-vuhn-hook) 
10A.  Barbara McClintock won a 1983 Nobel prize for discovering these sequences of DNA that can move 
to different positions in the genome and were nicknamed “jumping genes”? 
ANSWER:  
transposon 
s 
10B.  The Boyana church is found in which largest city and capital of Bulgaria? 
ANSWER:  
Sofia 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  5 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 1 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One artist sculpted this figure from a slab of marble abandoned forty years earlier by Agostino di 
Duccio. Another sculpture of this figure was the first freestanding nude sculpture in the Renaissance. 
Donatello’s bronze sculpture of this figure depicts him holding his enemy’s sword and standing on his 
enemy’s head. For 10 points, name this Israelite king depicted in marble by Michelangelo with a slingshot 
in hand, about to fight Goliath. 
ANSWER:  
David 
080-10-18-01117 
2. One work by this composer may have been written for his love interest, Therese Malfatti, and is less 
commonly known as his  
Bagatelle in A Minor. 
 Another work by this composer received its nickname from 
the poet Ludwig Rellstab, who was reminded by that piece of Lake Lucerne at night. A symphony by this 
man ends with voices singing the words to a Schiller poem, and is nicknamed \"Choral.\" For 10 points, 
name this German composer of  
Für Elise 
 and the  
Moonlight Sonata, 
 whose ninth symphony is set to the 
poem \"Ode to Joy.\" 
ANSWER: Ludwig van  
Beethoven 
023-10-18-01118 
3. This country's first king was the Bavarian prince Otto. Thousands of this country’s citizens were killed 
in the Massacre of Chios (KEY-os). During this country’s war of independence, the Society of Friends was 
led by Alexander Ypsilanti (ip-suh-LAN-tee), and that war ended with this country gaining independence 
from the Ottoman Empire in 1830. This nation carries on a tradition of democracy begun in ancient times 
by Solon and Cleisthenes (KLICE-thuh-nees). For 10 points, name this country that hosted the first modern 
Olympics in 1896 in Athens. 
ANSWER:  
Greece 
 [or  
Hellas 
; or  
Hellinic 
 Republic; or  
Ellada 
; or  
Elliniki 
 Dimokratia] 
079-10-18-01119 
4. For a particle, this quantity is equal to the quotient of Planck’s (PLONKS) constant and the wavelength. 
According to Noether’s (NOY-turz) Theorem, the conservation of this quantity is due to the fact that the 
laws of physics are the same everywhere in space. The net force on a body is equal to the time derivative of 
this quantity. For 10 points, name this product of a body’s mass and velocity. 
ANSWER: linear  
momentum 
 [do not accept “angular momentum”] 
079-10-18-01120 
5. The RAN protein is used for the transport of materials in and out of the pores of this organelle. Observed 
with Hoechst and DAPI staining, this organelle, when found in tumors, contains Cajal bodies. Continuous 
with the rough endoplasmic reticulum, this organelle is the site of histone proteins, as well as the 
production of ribosomes and transcription of DNA. Not found in prokaryotes, for 10 points, name this 
“control center” of the cell. 
ANSWER:  
nucleus 
 [or  
nuclei 
] 
079-10-18-01121 
6. This parameter is the only parameter in the Lorentz factor. Cerenkov (\"CHAIR\"-en-kov) radiation is 
produced by objects exceeding this parameter. This parameter is equal to one over the square root of the 
product of the permittivity of free space and permeability of free space. It is squared and multiplied by 
mass in an equation for rest energy developed by Einstein. For 10 points, name this theoretical limit on the 
speed of an object, which in a vacuum is equal to three times ten to the eighth meters per second. 
ANSWER:  
speed of light 
 [or  ] 
c 
003-10-18-01122 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  6 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. Each part of these objects is examined once in a process called traversal. A specific type of these objects 
is modified by the DSW Algorithm. Exemplified by scapegoat and red-black types, these objects, when not 
completely sorted, are heaps. In the binary search type of these objects, the left side has nodes with keys 
that are less than the keys on the right. For 10 points, name these data structures from computer science that 
consist of root and leaf nodes. 
ANSWER:  
tree 
s 
079-10-18-01123 
8. Some women in this novel snack on a husband’s gift of bonbons and observe a bilingual parrot. The 
protagonist of this novel attends the races with Mrs. Highcamp and is moved to tears by Madame Reisz’s 
performance of a Chopin impromptu. Adèle Ratignolle’s fidelity contrasts with this novel’s protagonist, 
who cuckolds Léonce by carrying on an affair with Alcée. This book ends when the protagonist is rejected 
by her true love, Robert Lebrun, and drowns herself. For 10 points, name this novel about Edna 
Pontellier’s arousal, a work of Kate Chopin. 
ANSWER:  
The  Awakening 
079-10-18-01124 
9. This President defused the Newburgh Conspiracy and, in another post, was nearly replaced by Horatio 
Gates due to the Conway Cabal. As President, he met with a French ambassador who tried to draw him into 
war with Britain named Citizen Genêt (JUH-nay). His farewell address discouraged foreign alliances. The 
signing of Jay’s Treaty and the Whiskey Rebellion occurred during the Presidency of this victor at Trenton 
and Yorktown. For 10 points, name this man who appointed Alexander Hamilton as Secretary of the 
Treasury as the first President. 
ANSWER: George  
Washington 
079-10-18-01125 
10. This biome is either BWh or BWk in the Koppen system, and these areas typically feature xeric 
(ZEER-ick) soil regimes. Temporary lakes in this environment are playas (PLY-uhs), and this area’s high 
level of evapotranspiration may lead to salt flats. They are often created due to a rain shadow effect from 
upwind mountains. For 10 points, name this arid biome which typically experiences less than 10 inches of 
rain a year, examples of which include the Gobi and the Sahara. 
ANSWER:  
desert 
s 
082-10-18-01126 
11. This writer imagined a conversation between God, Job, and Job’s wife in  
A Masque of Mercy 
. Mary 
and Warren talk about the titular laborer, Silas, in a poem from this man’s collection  
North of Boston 
, “The 
Death of the Hired Man.” He claimed that “if it had to perish twice / I think I know enough of hate” in 
“Fire And Ice” and ended another poem with the repeated line “And miles to go before I sleep.” For 10 
points, name this American poet of “Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening.” 
ANSWER: Robert Lee  
Frost 
082-10-18-01127 
12. In one poem, this man wonders if the title figure seeks “the plashy brink” or “marge of river wide” and 
concludes confidently that God will “lead” his “steps aright.” In that poem, this man asks the title bird 
“Whither... thou dost thou pursue thy solitary way?” This poet opened another work by considering “him 
who in the love of nature holds communion with her visible forms.” For 10 points, name this American 
poet of “To a Waterfowl” who also wrote a “meditation on death” called “Thanatopsis.” 
ANSWER: William Cullen  
Bryant 
080-10-18-01128 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  7 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. One character in this novel is castrated after an incident arising from an unlocked gate. Another 
character in this novel marries Herbert Head, which is one factor in her brother's decision to commit suicide 
by jumping into the Charles River. Those characters are the mentally impaired Benjy, the promiscuous 
Caddy, and the neurotic Quentin, all of whom are members of the Compson family. For 10 points, name 
this novel by William Faulkner. 
ANSWER:  
The  Sound and the Fury 
024-10-18-01129 
14. Reverend Samuel Cadman dubbed one of these works the “Cathedral of Commerce;” Cass Gilbert 
created that one for Frank L. Woolworth. The father of these works coined the phrase “Form follows 
function.” Dankmar Adler designed one of these for Elias Wainwright along with the father of these 
buildings, Louis Sullivan. For 10 points, name these extremely tall buildings that dominate urban skylines. 
ANSWER:  
skyscrapers 
080-10-18-01130 
15. One of this man’s short stories centers on an apparatus that inscribes men’s bodies with the law they 
are accused of breaking. This author of “In the Penal Colony” wrote a novel containing the “Parable of the 
Man Before the Law”; in that novel, Joseph K. is executed despite committing no crime. One of this 
author’s characters dies from an apple lodged in his back; that character, Gregor Samsa, discovers his 
transformation into a disgusting insect. For 10 points, name this Czech author of  
The Trial 
 and “The 
Metamorphosis.” 
ANSWER: Franz  
Kafka 
080-10-18-01131 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  8 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 1 
Round 1 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. Ron Shelton made a documentary about this man entitled “[This man] Rides the Bus;” that documentary 
covers this man’s year with the Birmingham Barons. Currently an owner of the Charlotte Bobcats, this 
man scored 38 points in his “Flu game,” the fifth game of the finals series against the Utah Jazz. This 
player took one season off of basketball to play minor league baseball and, in 2001, returned to play for the 
Washington Wizards.. For 10 points, name this legendary player who led the Chicago Bulls to six 
championships. 
ANSWER: Michael  
Jordan 
080-10-18-01132 
2.  
The Castle of Perseverance 
 is one of the earliest examples of this genre, which also includes a play that 
ends with the title character receiving the sacraments and is accompanied by Good Deeds, but not Beauty 
or Strength, into the afterlife. Often associated with miracle or mystery plays, this genre is exemplified by 
the 15th century play  
Everyman 
. For 10 points, name this medieval genre of theatre which uses 
personifications of sins and virtues to convey strong messages to its audience. 
ANSWER:  
morality play 
083-10-18-01133 
3. Salvatore Giunta will soon receive the medal of honor for actions in this country. Operation Mushtarak 
was recently launched in this country. An issue of  
Rolling Stone 
 brought about the downfall of Stanley 
McChrystal’s command in this country, resulting in his replacement by David Petraeus. US operations in 
this country began with Operation Enduring Freedom. For 10 points, name this country currently led by 
Hamid Karzai. 
ANSWER:  
Afghanistan 
080-10-18-01134 
4. This artist's direct influences included the theosophical revival meetings of Jiddu Krishnamurti and the 
instruction of older painter Thomas Hart Benton. He was married to fellow painter Lee Krasner during the 
time when he painted his iconic works  
Full Fathom Five 
 and  
Lavender Mist. 
 He called his technique 
\"action painting,\" which became a major subfield of the abstract expressionist movement. For 10 points, 
name this painter who was known as \"Jack the dripper\" for his unorthodox methods. 
ANSWER: Paul Jackson  
Pollock 
019-10-18-01135 
5. This agreement was called \"the noblest work of our whole lives\" by one of its negotiators, Robert 
Livingston. Its boundaries were in dispute as a result of the lack of specificity of the Third Treaty of San 
Ildefonso between Spain and France. It was opposed by Talleyrand in France and the Federalist Party in the 
United States. This agreement led to the Lewis and Clark expedition, whose goal was to explore the newly 
acquired territory. For 10 points, name this 1803 purchase in which the United States acquired land from 
France. 
ANSWER:  
Louisiana Purchase 
024-10-18-01136 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 1     Round 1     Page  9 of 9 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
