VHSL States 2011 
Round 7 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The r-process refers to rapid neutron capture during these phenomena. One type of these phenomena is 
useful for measuring distances in excess of one thousand megaparsecs. Another type of these phenomena 
lack hydrogen lines and generally occur above the Chandrasekhar limit. The abundance of the heavy 
elements can be explained by their nuclear synthesis during these phenomena, and the Crab Nebula was 
formed by one of these phenomena. In white dwarfs above 1.44 solar masses, this event leads to the 
formation of a black hole. For 10 points, name these extremely energetic explosions of stars. 
ANSWER:  
supernova 
066-11-25-07101 
2. This sculptor was commissioned to create a sanctuary for the Maharaja of Indore [in-DOR-uh], resulting 
in the  
Temple of Meditation 
 that included the piece  
King of Kings 
. In one piece, this man set twelve seats 
around a large, circular stone. Another work by this man has seventeen rhombus-shaped pieces stretch 
vertically nearly 100 feet. Both those works,  
Table of Silence 
 and  
Endless Column 
, are located in Targu Jiu 
(TAR-goo ZHEE-oo). For 10 points, name this sculptor of a piece considered by customs officials to be an 
industrial part called  
Bird in Space 
, who was born in Romania. 
ANSWER: Constantin  
Brancusi 
023-11-25-07102 
3. A cupbearer in this work inspired the pen name of British author Saki. This collection's opening poems 
take place on the vernal equinox; it goes on to describe a rejection of “doctor and saint” in favor of “the 
wine of life.” It uses a namesake stanza of four iambic pentameter lines arranged into a quatrain. It is most 
known in English through a liberal translation by Edward FitzGerald, who penned the lines “A Book of 
Verses underneath the Bough, A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread and Thou.” For 10 points, identify this 
collection of hedonistic Persian love poetry by Omar Khayyam. 
ANSWER: the  
Rubaiyat 
019-11-25-07103 
4. Kennedy and Illingworth attempted to carry out this experiment with a half-wave step. One of its 
conductors later worked with Dayton Miller to resolve the problem that this experiment raised. The setup of 
this experiment was constructed atop a slab of marble floating in a pool of mercury. One of this 
experiment's conductors created a namesake interferometer to split a single light source into two beams of 
light. For 10 points, name this experiment, the null result of which discredited the existence of luminiferous 
[loo-mih-NIH-fer-us] ether. 
ANSWER:  
Michelson-Morley 
 experiment 
026-11-25-07104 
5. In one work by this playwright, Ann Deever plans to run off with and marry Chris, the son of the main 
character. That play by this man ends with the suicide of Joe Keller after it becomes clear to the other 
characters that he allowed cracked cylinder heads to be sold to the Air Force, resulting in 21 pilots dying. 
This writer of  
All My Sons 
 also wrote a play in which Abigail Williams ruins the life of John Proctor and a 
car-driving suicide is enacted by the father of Biff and Happy. For 10 points, name this American 
playwright of  
The Crucible 
 and  
Death of a Salesman 
. 
ANSWER: Arthur Asher  
Miller 
023-11-25-07105 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One experiment that studied this concept involved a cat trapped in a box that would open when a certain 
region was pressed. This can diminish over time until it disappears in a process called “extinction.” In a 
famous study of this, dogs began to salivate at the sound of a bell. This concept has “operant” and 
“classical” varieties, the latter of which was studied in dogs by Ivan Pavlov. For 10 points, name this 
concept in psychology, the pairing of a stimulus with a response. 
ANSWER:  
conditioning 
 [prompt on  
classical 
 or  
operant 
 conditioning before they are read] 
080-11-25-07106 
7. This hero delivered Thebes from the tyranny of the Minyans by slaying the Minyan king, Erginus. This 
man killed the monstrous Cacus in Italy to recover his stolen oxen. He bore the indignity of dressing in 
women’s clothing while serving Queen Omphale (om-FAH-lee). In a fit of madness, this man killed his 
wife Megara and his eight children. He diverted the rivers Alpheius (al-FEE-us) and Peneius (peh-NEE-us) 
to cleanse the stables of King Augeus. For 10 points, name this Greek hero, who notably completed twelve 
labors. 
ANSWER:  
Heracles 
 [or  
Hercules 
] 
080-11-25-07107 
8. Dimercaprol [DYE-mer-kah-prawl] reacts with Lewisite in one type of this reaction, used to treat 
mustard gas poisoning in World War I. \"Agents\" that promote this kind of reaction include siderophores 
[SID-er-uh-forz], porphyrins, and EDTA. This kind of reaction is almost always more thermodynamically 
stable than adding an equivalent number of monodentate ligands. For 10 points, name this reaction in 
which a single ligand forms several bonds with a metal ion to form a certain type of coordination complex. 
ANSWER:  
chelation 
 [KEE-lay-shun] [or word forms, such as  
chelate 
] 
003-11-25-07108 
9. This ballet’s  
pas de deux 
 includes a section that uses the celesta [see-LES-tuh], which comes later than 
the “Dance of the Reed Pipes.” This ballet opens at a party where one of the guests is Drosselmeyer. This 
ballet includes a “trepak,” and other sections of this ballet represent chocolate, tea, and coffee. The Mouse 
King is defeated before the “Waltz of the Snowflakes” in this ballet. This ballet includes the “Waltz of the 
Flowers” and the “Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy.” For 10 points, name this ballet by Peter Tchaikovsky 
about Clara’s Christmas gift coming to life. 
ANSWER:  
The  Nutcracker 
 [or  
Schelkunchik 
] 
027-11-25-07109 
10. One character in this novel, Cy Bogart, earns the respect of his fellow townspeople by beating up the 
son of a local German-American farmer during wartime, though he later causes the teacher Fern Mullins to 
lose his job. Vida Sherman marries Raymond Wutherspoon in this novel, and the protagonist's maid, Bea 
Sorenson, marries Miles Bjornstam; Bea and her child later die of an illness. The protagonist decides to 
marry Will, a doctor, though she finds that his descriptions of Gopher Prairie fall short of her expectations. 
For 10 points, name this novel by Sinclair Lewis. 
ANSWER:  
Main Street 
040-11-25-07110 
11. This thinker referred to symbols meaningful to a specific group or class as “collective representations.” 
He argued that in modern society, people’s work is so specialized that they are naturally dependent on one 
another, experiencing “organic solidarity.” This author of the  
Division of Labor in Society 
 also examined 
how Protestants are more likely to perform the title action than Catholics in a work that popularized the 
term “anomie.” For 10 points, name this French sociologist, who wrote  
Suicide 
. 
ANSWER: David Emile  
Durkheim 
080-11-25-07111 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. This was the book John Wesley was reading when he felt his heart “strangely warmed.” The writer of 
this book states that “neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come” 
can separate us from the love of God. This book questions “if God is for us, who is against us?” and states 
that “the wages of sin is death.” This book is found after  
Acts 
 and is the first and longest of the Pauline 
Epistles. For 10 points, name this letter written to the church of a large Italian city. 
ANSWER: Epistle of Paul to the  
Romans 
015-11-25-07112 
13. In one story by this man, Johannes Dahlmann reads his copy of the  
Arabian Nights 
 and gets into a knife 
fight after almost dying in a hospital. This author wrote a story about the struggles of a man with a limitless 
memory. This author of “The South” and “Funes, the Memorious” wrote about the German spy Yu Tsun 
leaving a message through murder in another story. His story about a building with endless hexagonal 
rooms was collected in  
Ficciones 
 [feek-see-OH-nays]. For 10 points, name this author of “The Garden of 
Forking Paths” and “The Library of Babel.” 
ANSWER: Jorge Luis  
Borges 
015-11-25-07113 
14. These works were premiered at the Bayreuth Festival with the funding of Mad King Ludwig. The title 
object of these works is stolen by the dwarf Mime and is forged by Alberich. The main character of these 
works kills the dragon Fafner and loves Brünnhilde. It includes  
Götterdämmerung 
[goh-ter-DEM-mer-runk],  
The Rheingold The Valkyrie 
,  , and an opera named for its main character,  
Siegfried 
. For 10 points, name this series of four operas by Richard Wagner. 
ANSWER: The  
Ring 
 Cycle [or  
The  Ring  of the Nibelungs 
; or Der  
Ring 
 des Nibelungen] 
027-11-25-07114 
15. This party ran Norman Thomas as its presidential candidate in six consecutive elections starting in 
1928. Daniel De Leon and Big Bill Haywood were members in the Industrial Workers of the World, who 
supported this party. This party's presidential candidate in the 1920 election was held in prison during the 
election. That man was Eugene V. Debs. For 10 points, name this party that espoused a philosophy to 
which Barack Obama is sometimes accused of adhering. 
ANSWER:  
Socialist 
 Party of America 
027-11-25-07115 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 7 
Directed Round 
1A.  What poet wrote a series of works about Maud Gonne and discussed a “lonely impulse of delight” in 
his poem “An Irish Airman Foresees His Death”? 
ANSWER: William Butler  
Yeats 
1B.  What Italian mathematician wrote the  
Book of the Abacus 
 and is known for his sequence in which each 
number is the sum of the two previous numbers? 
ANSWER: Leonardo  
Fibonacci 
 [or  
Leonardo Pisano 
; or  
Leonardo of Pisa 
] 
2A.  What early feminist and author of  
Woman in the Nineteenth Century 
 was a transcendentalist who 
served as the first editor of  
The Dial 
? 
ANSWER: Margaret  
Fuller 
2B.  What Russian wrote  
Uncle Vanya 
 as well as a play about the destruction of Madame Ranevsky's 
estate,  
The Cherry Orchard 
? 
ANSWER: Anton  
Chekhov 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the area of a square whose 
diagonal measures 6 times the square root of 2? 
ANSWER:  
36 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the expression a to the quantity b 
plus 3 end quantity equal to if a is 7 and b is -1. 
ANSWER:  
49 
4A.  What American political party grew out of the Farmers' Alliances, advocated a graduated income tax, 
and ran James Weaver in the 1892 presidential election before endorsing Democrat William Jennings 
Bryan in the 1896 election? 
ANSWER:  
Populist 
 Party [or  
People's 
 Party] 
4B.  What equation of chemical kinetics involves a “pre-exponential factor” and can be used to calculate 
reaction rate, given temperature and activation energy? 
ANSWER:  
Arrhenius 
 Equation 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find the tangent of the arccosine of -7/25. 
ANSWER:  
-24/7 
 [do not accept \"24/7,\" as the range of arccosine does not include Quadrant III angles] 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the probability than an 80-percent free throw shooter 
makes three consecutive free throws? 
ANSWER:  
51.2 percent 
 [or 0 
.512 
; or  
64/125 
; do not accept \"51.2\" by itself] 
6A.  Osmosis is a special case of what process, which can also be described by Fick's Laws? 
ANSWER:  
diffusion 
6B.  What country music trio composed of Charles Kelley, Dave Haywood, and Hillary Scott found success 
with the songs “I Run to You,” “Our Kind of Love,” and “Need You Now”? 
ANSWER:  
Lady Antebellum 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the quadratic equation of the parabola that passes 
through the points (3, 3), (0, 6), and (-1, 15). 
ANSWER: y =  
2 x  - 7 x + 6 
2 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the difference between the 
arithmetic mean and the geometric mean of the set {1, 8, 9, 18}? 
ANSWER:  
3 
8A.  What American painter depicted a fire hydrant in  
Early Sunday Morning 
 and painted a diner that is 
apparently without a door in  
Nighthawks 
? 
ANSWER: Edward  
Hopper 
8B.  What British philosopher formulated an early version of the scientific method in his  
Novum Organum 
? 
ANSWER: Francis  
Bacon 
9A.  What material was created from pressing together perpendicular strips of a grasslike plant to create a 
surface fit for writing on, which was originally developed in Egypt? 
ANSWER:  
papyrus 
9B.  What phylum, whose body consists of two layers of cells around a structure called mesohyl 
[meh-ZOH-hill], contains sponges? 
ANSWER:  
Porifera 
10A.  Name the poetic form which consists of one character talking about themselves or their situation in a 
revealing way, an example of which is Robert Browning's \"My Last Duchess.\" 
ANSWER:  
dramatic monologue 
10B.  What 2010 film featured Mickey Rourke as Ivan Vanko, the son of a scientist who worked with the 
main character’s father and who destroys some cars at the Grand Prix de Monaco? 
ANSWER:  
Iron Man 2 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 7 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. One scale for measuring the intensity of these phenomena sets T equal to B over two minus four, and is 
called the TORRO scale. This object's formation can sometimes be seen on Doppler radar intensity images 
as hook echoes. The damage that these entities cause is ranked on the Enhanced Fujita scale. One of them 
that forms over water is called a waterspout, and they typically form from wall or funnel clouds. For 10 
points, name these rotating columns of air that are ranked on a scale from EF1 to EF5. 
ANSWER:  
tornado 
es [or  
twister 
; do not accept \"cyclone\"] 
026-11-25-07117 
2. This man was charged with giving a $600,000 bribe to David Mills in a case which is currently 
suspended, and has been accused of embezzling money from a company he controls. That company, 
Mediaset, owns five television stations, three in his native country. This founder of the People Of Freedom 
movement has been criticized for his \"bunga-bunga\" parties, which included the services of the underage 
prostitute Karima el-Mahroug, known as \"Ruby\". For 10 points, name this Prime Minister of Italy. 
ANSWER: Silvio  
Berlusconi 
082-11-25-07118 
3. The lead-up to this legislation saw the formation of a Committee of Thirteen and the Nashville 
Convention. It organized the territories of Utah and New Mexico under popular sovereignty and established 
the borders of Texas, which was also given money to pay off its debts. This piece of legislation ended the 
slave trading market in Washington, D.C., but did not outlaw slavery there. Other provisions of this 
legislation admitted California as a free state and provided for a harsh Fugitive Slave Act. For 10 points, 
name this compromise passed during the middle of the nineteenth century. 
ANSWER:  
Compromise of 1850 
040-11-25-07119 
4. One character in this novel is allowed to spend a summer at Brighton under the care of Colonel Forster. 
While touring an estate with the Gardiners, this novel's protagonist is informed by the housekeeper, Mrs. 
Reynolds, of the outstanding character of her master, who unexpectedly returns to his estate during the 
visit. That man, the nephew of Lady Catherine, is revealed to be the one who paid off Wickham to marry 
Lydia, probably because of his love for Lydia's sister Elizabeth. For 10 points, Mr. Darcy and the Bennet 
family appear in which Jane Austen novel? 
ANSWER:  
Pride and Prejudice 
040-11-25-07120 
5. This city saw factions of its demes supporting different charioteers, which were called Blues and Greens. 
A council held in this city promulgated the modern version of the Nicene Creed. During the Nika riots, 
Belisarius tricked a mob into being massacred in its Hippodrome. Michael Palaeologus recaptured this city 
after it was sacked by Venetians during the Fourth Crusade. This city was captured in 1453 by Mehmed II's 
Ottoman forces. For 10 points, name this capital of the Byzantine Empire. 
ANSWER:  
Constantinople 
 [or  
Istanbul 
; or  
Byzantium 
] 
027-11-25-07121 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. This event was anticipated by the Flour Riot and its aftermath led to the establishment of the sub-treasury 
system. One cause of this event, an inflationary bubble of the \"pet banks\", was countered by this event's 
immediate cause, an executive order demanding payment for public land in gold or silver. This event 
caused by Andrew Jackson's Specie Circular led to a six-year-long depression and record unemployment. 
For 10 points, name this financial crash which occurred during the first year of Martin Van Buren's 
presidency. 
ANSWER:  
Panic of 1837 
 [or  
1837 Panic 
] 
082-11-25-07122 
7. The narrator of this story describes committing an action because he knows that only that action may put 
him beyond the reach of the mercy of God. That narrator describes how he was renowned for his tenderness 
and docility when he was a youth, though, after finding a wife with a similar character, he begins to 
become less cordial under the influence of alcohol. At its end, the narrator is apprehended for the murder of 
his wife after the hiding place of her body is revealed to the police by the cries of an animal, which is 
named Pluto. For 10 points, name this short story by Edgar Allan Poe. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Black Cat 
\" 
040-11-25-07123 
8. A song that was used in support of this event was Thomas Wharton's \"Lilli Burlero.\" Among the actions 
that prompted this event was an order to read the Declaration of Indulgence from pulpits, which was 
resisted by Archbishop of Canterbury William Sancroft. John Churchill’s desertion was a key action in this 
event's success. It led to a document that prohibited a standing army in peacetime and gave the right of 
succession to Anne. That document accompanying this event was the Bill of Rights. For 10 points, name 
this 1688 bloodless revolution in which James II was replaced by William and Mary. 
ANSWER:  
Glorious Revolution 
 [or  
Revolution of 1688 
 before mentioned; or  
Bloodless Revolution 
before mentioned] 
030-11-25-07124 
9. This is the only construction in French which does not use a subject pronoun, and the only one which 
puts pronouns after the verb with a connecting hyphen. When forming this construct in German, the \"sie\" 
form keeps the pronoun but the \"du\" and \"ihr\" forms drop the pronoun. In Latin, the plural form of this 
mood adds the letters \"t e\" to the singular construction, which is formed by removing \"r e\" from the present 
infinitive. In most languages which use this mood, it has a \"negative\" form, which is used for prohibitions. 
For 10 points, name this verb mood, which is used to give a command. 
ANSWER:  
imperative 
 mood 
019-11-25-07125 
10. The programming used in this unit is forecasted to be able to be used in the analysis of medical records 
and in helping to develop diagnoses. It consists of ninety Power 750 servers and over 2000 POWER7 
processors. Early versions had an accuracy rate of as low as fifteen percent, though after the expansion of 
its databases to include more primary sources and definitions, it could defeat most human opponents. This 
was put into practice when it handily beat Brad Rutter and Ken Jennings in two recently televised matches. 
For 10 points, name this IBM computer designed to play Jeopardy! 
ANSWER:  
Watson 
040-11-25-07126 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. In one of this man's novels, Sharik transforms into a man after an operation is performed by the doctor 
Philip Philipovich Preobrezhansky [pray-oh-breh-ZHAN-skee]. In another novel by this writer, one of the 
title characters writes a manuscript about the relationship between Jesus and Pontius Pilate. One character 
in that work by this author of  
The Heart of a Dog 
 is always attended by his black cat Behemoth and is 
named Woland. For 10 points, name the Soviet author of a work which ends with the two title characters 
together in a sort of limbo,  
The Master and Margarita 
. 
ANSWER: Mikhail Afanasyevich  
Bulgakov 
023-11-25-07127 
12. The Wolfe Creek Meteor Crater is located in this nation that is home to the Gibson and Tanami Deserts. 
The so-called Tea and Sugar Train brought supplies to towns in its region known as the Nullarbor 
[null-uh-BOR] Plain, which also contains part of the span of its transcontinental railroad that runs from Port 
Augusta to Kalgoorlie. Its largest lake, whose two halves are connected by the Goyder Channel is notable 
for its shrinking and growing during the rainy season; that body of water is Lake Eyre. Its states include 
Queensland, Victoria, and New South Wales. For 10 points, name this nation whose capital is Canberra 
[KAN-ber-uh]. 
ANSWER:  
Australia 
040-11-25-07128 
13. This city's Stage Center was once called the Mummers Theater. I.M. Pei designed a namesake plan for 
this city's downtown that resulted in the Myriad Botanical gardens. This city was founded during the Land 
Run of 1889. Each quadrant of this city contains a park, the largest of which is named for Will Rogers. This 
city's only pro sports team plays at the Ford Center. A tragedy in this city is commemorated by a memorial 
that shows a field of empty chairs and was perpetrated by Timothy McVeigh. For 10 points, name this 
capital city of a state that also contains Tulsa and the home of the NBA's Thunder. 
ANSWER:  
Oklahoma City 
026-11-25-07129 
14. William Porcelet was spared during this event due to his reputation, but he used his influence to help 
many of its targets escape death. One of its leaders was Bartholomaeus [bar-toh-loh-MAY-us] of 
Neocastro. Similar actions had been planned by John of Procida, who acted as an advisor to Constance, the 
wife of Peter of Aragon who eventually inherited the territory in which it occurred. The belligerents were 
unhappy with the rule of Charles of Anjou, an Angevin monarch, and they rose up on Easter Monday 
following a scuffle with a French officer. For 10 points, name this 1282 rebellion on a Mediterranean 
island. 
ANSWER:  
Sicilian Vespers 
040-11-25-07130 
15. The anti-EMR1 monoclonal antibody binds specifically to these cells, and they also express CD68 and 
CD14. So-called “Heart Failure Cells” are created when these cells become laden with hemosiderin, and in 
atherosclerotic [ah-thuh-ROH-skleh-RAW-tik] plaques they become foam cells. One variant of these cells 
line the walls of liver sinusoids and are called Kupffer cells, and these cells’ main function is triggered by 
activation of toll-like receptors, followed by actin polymerization. These cells differentiate from 
monocytes. They express MHC class II, which with they present antigens to helper T cells. For 10 points, 
name these immune cells which phagocytize [FAG-uh-seye-tize] debris and pathogens, whose name is 
Greek for “big eaters”. 
ANSWER:  
macrophage 
s 
048-11-25-07131 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 7 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This man managed to pass the Symplegades after he allowed a dove to fly through them, and, seeing it 
emerge alive on the other side, knew that he could pass through safely. This man's son Thessalus became 
king of Corinth after he defeated Acastus with the aid of Peleus, while his marriage to Creusa caused 
enmity between himself and his lover, who killed Creusa as well as her children by this man. That woman, 
Medea, had earlier helped this man achieve his most notable task in Colchis. For 10 points, name this 
leader of the Argonauts who acquired the Golden Fleece. 
ANSWER:  
Jason 
040-11-25-07132 
2. The off-by-one error is commonly encountered when writing to these entities. Character strings can be 
represented as these entities with a trailing null byte, and the lack of bound checking on these structures can 
result in the overwriting of memory addresses. In C and C++, these entities are defined using square 
brackets, and in most languages, their indices start at zero. For 10 points, name these data structures that 
contain elements of the same data type, which can be two-dimensional and are thus analogous to matrices. 
ANSWER:  
array 
s 
066-11-25-07133 
3. On  
Mad Men 
, a wealthy heir hires Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce to bring this sport to national 
prominence. This sport was banned for thirteen years in the Philippines after a game-fixing scheme was 
discovered in 1988. This sport is played in a three-walled court called the cancha. It uses a ball called a 
pelota which must be caught and thrown with the basket-like “cesta.” For 10 points, name this fast-paced 
sport somewhat popular in Spain and Florida. 
ANSWER:  
jai alai 
 (HI-ah-LIE) 
015-11-25-07134 
4. For an ideal gas, this quantity can be derived from temperature using Sutherland's formula. This quantity 
can be mathematically represented by tensors of fourth or higher orders. Bingham plastics can experience a 
dramatic increase in this property at high stresses, though at low stresses it instead is characterized by an 
amalgamation of this term and \"elastic.\" Thixotropic and rheopectic materials respectively decrease and 
increase this property over time, much like the processes of shear thinning and shear thickening. This value 
is non-constant for non-Newtonian fluids, such as blood and ketchup. Analogous to friction, for 10 points, 
identify this term for a fluid's resistance to flow. 
ANSWER:  
viscosity 
020-11-25-07135 
5. Like Hirschsprung’s disease, mutations in the RET proto-oncogene are associated with a particular 
cancer in this organ, which is also the site of Hurthle cell neoplasm. Anaplastic, medullary, and neoplasms 
comprise most malignancies of this organ. The main product of this gland is overproduced in Graves 
disease and under-produced in Hashimoto’s disease. This organ, which contains two lobes and an isthmus, 
has C-cells which secrete a hormone that reduces blood calcium, known as calcitonin. The main product of 
this gland is produced in colloidal form, and is produced in T3 and T4 forms. For 10 points, name this 
organ which is the site of goiters, a gland in the neck that needs iodine to function. 
ANSWER:  
thyroid 
048-11-25-07136 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
This is a calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the measure of the interior angle of a regular 
dodecagon? 
ANSWER:  
150 
 degrees [or  
5pi/6 
 radians] 
048-11-25-07137 
What type of enzyme transfers phosphates to other proteins? 
ANSWER:  
kinase 
s 
048-11-25-07137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2011     Round 7     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
