2013 NHB Set A 
Bowl Round 5 
First Quarter 
BOWL ROUND 5 
1. One building in this city is believed to contain the head of John the Baptist. That building was converted 
to a mosque by al-Walid I, the sixth ruler of a caliphate that ruled from this city and was defeated at the 
Battle of the River Zab by the Abbasids. In a suburb of this longtime capital of the Umayyad Caliphate, 
Daraya, four hundred protestors were massacred in summer 2012. For 10 points, name this ancient city, 
currently the capital of Syria. 
ANSWER:  
Damascus 
132-13-88-05101 
2. The \"Authentic Six\" canon is followed by this sect. While praying, members of this sect cross their arms. 
This sect follows schools of law such as the Maliki, Hanbali, and Shafi'i. Its followers included Yazid I, 
who killed Hussein at the Battle of Karbala. This sect endorses the Rashidun, or Rightly Guided Caliphs, 
beginning with Abu Bakr. For 10 points, name this sect of Islam popular in Africa, eastern Asia, and Saudi 
Arabia, which is more widely-followed than Shia. 
ANSWER:  
Sunni 
 Islam [prompt on  
Islam 
] 
190-13-88-05102 
3. In the aftermath of this event, Herbert Quiers looted disturbed areas, an action denounced in the essay 
\"To the Person Sitting in Darkness\" by Mark Twain. As this movement was gaining strength, the Guangxu 
(gwang-SHOO) Emperor's Hundred Days' Reform ended. The Eight-Nation Alliance worked to suppress 
this event, which was initially supported by the Empress Dowager Cixi (SEE-shee). For 10 points, name 
this turn-of-the-twentieth century rebellion against imperialism in China. 
ANSWER:  
Boxer 
 Rebellion [or  
Righteous Harmony Society 
 Movement] 
127-13-88-05103 
4. An early version of this diagram was called the telluric helix. Henry Moseley explained an apparent 
abnormality of placement on this diagram. The Law of Triads and the Law of Octaves were used to create 
this diagram, an early version of which used the Sanskrit word \"eka,\" meaning \"beyond,\" to represent items 
not yet discovered. Dmitri Mendeleev (men-duh-LAY-yev) is credited with inventing it. For 10 points, 
name this diagram which displays cobalt and nickel. 
ANSWER: the  
Periodic Table 
 of Elements 
190-13-88-05104 
5. This king concluded the Truce of Altmark with his cousin Sigismund of Poland. He founded the 
University of Tartu and gave the University of Uppsala its financial stability. In battle, this man attacked 
Graf von Tilly's left flank and entered Leipzig the following day. This son of Charles IX was the victor at 
the Battle of Breitenfeld, and he was aided by his chancellor Axel Oxenstierna. For 10 points, name this 
king of Sweden who died at the Battle of Lutzen in the Thirty Years' War. 
ANSWER:  
Gustavus Adolphus 
 [or  
Gustav II 
; or  
Gustav Adolf 
; prompt on  
Gustav 
us] 
030-13-88-05105 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  1 of 10 
6. Canadian political advisor Tom Flanagan, Republican candidate Mike Huckabee, and Fox News analyst 
Bob Beckel are among those who have called for this man to be assassinated. In 2013, he declared his 
candidacy for the Victoria seat in the Australian Senate. Currently confined in the Ecuadorian embassy in 
London, he is wanted in Sweden for sexual assault. In 2010, his organization published thousands of 
American classified diplomatic cables. For 10 points, name this editor-in-chief of Wikileaks. 
ANSWER: Julian Paul  
Assange 
226-13-88-05106 
7. A medieval legend about this region describes a knight named Robert from here who finds out that his 
father is Satan. Roger Bosso came from this region with his brother to conquer Sicily, and another leader 
from this region consolidated his rule with the Truce of God. Charles the Simple granted this region to 
Rollo during a siege of Paris, and one leader from this region won the Battle of Hastings. For 10 points, 
name this French region where William the Conqueror ruled. 
ANSWER: Duchy of  
Normandy 
224-13-88-05107 
8. This site contains the Torreon (torr-ey-OHN) observatory and the Room of the Three Windows. This 
location may have been found and looted in 1867 by German engineer Augusto Berns. This site is located 
above the Urubamba River in the Cordillera (cord-ee-YAIR-uh) de Vilcabamba. This site was misidentified 
as Vilcabamba when it was found in 1911 by Yale archaeologist Hiram Bingham. For 10 points, name this 
site located in southern Peru that is known as the \"lost city of the Incas.\" 
ANSWER:  
Machu Picchu 
023-13-88-05108 
9. George Chesney wrote a book where the Royal Navy is destroyed by \"fatal engines\" of this country.  
The 
Battle of Dorking 
 was the first in the genre of \"invasion literature\" about this country attacking England. A 
poem describing the world before England went to war with this country describes \"Never such innocence, 
Never before nor since.\" Another poem about a war with it denounces \"the old Lie\" and is by Wilfred 
Owen. For 10 points, name this country that England fought in World War I. 
ANSWER:  
Germany 
121-13-88-05109 
10. A person who served in this position for Franklin Roosevelt met with Pius XI after organizing 
Roosevelt's 1932 campaign and was James Farley. John Creswell advocated for the abolition of franking 
privileges from this post. The holder of this post oversees a department whose \"motto\" begins \"Neither 
snow nor rain.\" George Washington appointed Benjamin Franklin as the first holder of this position. For 10 
points, name this former Cabinet post that is in charge of the U.S. Postal Service. 
ANSWER: United States  
Postmaster General 
149-13-88-05110 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  2 of 10 
2013 NHB Set A 
Bowl Round 5 
Second Quarter 
1. This man opposed loyalty oaths for professors at the University of California while serving as governor, 
and he was the losing vice-presidential candidate as Thomas Dewey's running mate in 1948. This Chief 
Justice wrote the decision in  
Brown v. Board of Education. 
 For 10 points, name this chairman of the 
commission that investigated the assassination of John F. Kennedy. 
ANSWER: Earl  
Warren 
BONUS: Another member of the Warren Commission was Allen, a member of what family, who formerly 
served as CIA director and was the brother of Eisenhower's Secretary of State? 
ANSWER:  
Dulles 
 [or Allen  
Dulles 
; or John Foster  
Dulles 
] 
030-13-88-05101 
2. This man once escaped after surrendering at Canon de los Embudos in Sonora. He rode in Theodore 
Roosevelt's inauguration parade and was imprisoned at Fort Sill. Promises made to this man at the Skeleton 
Canyon conference were not kept. For 10 points, name this Apache who surrendered to Nelson Miles as the 
last leader of an American Indian force to formally capitulate to the U.S. government. 
ANSWER:  
Geronimo 
 [or  
Goyathlay 
] 
BONUS: Name the Oglala Sioux leader who worked with Chief Gall to engineer the defeat of George 
Custer at Little Bighorn. 
ANSWER:  
Crazy Horse 
 [or  
Thasungke Witkjo 
] 
030-13-88-05102 
3. In the bottom-left of this painting, a gray-bearded man covered reaches across his son's naked corpse. 
The artist prepared for this painting by creating studies of amputated limbs. It was inspired by an incident 
in which a ship off the coast jettisoned a vessel made of its lumber. For 10 points, name this Theodore 
Gericault painting showing survivors signaling to their rescuers. 
ANSWER:  
The  Raft of the Medusa 
BONUS: What American artist painted a different incident of maritime misfortune in  
Watson and the 
Shark? 
ANSWER: John Singleton  
Copley 
080-13-88-05103 
4. Mississippi attorney general Mike Moore filed the first state lawsuit against this industry, which required 
reimbursement for state Medicaid costs. Jeff Wigand was a whistleblower on this industry and was a 
former employee of Brown & Williamson. For 10 points, identify this industry whose products were, in 
1966, forced to carry the Surgeon General's Warning. 
ANSWER:  
cigarette 
 industry [prompt on  
tobacco 
, etc.] 
BONUS: The book and film  
Barbarians at the Gate 
 described the leveraged buyout of what tobacco and 
food company in 1989, the largest-ever corporate takeover at the time? 
ANSWER: RJR  
Nabisco 
, Inc. [or R.J.  
Reynolds 
 Tobacco; or  
RJR 
] 
030-13-88-05104 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  3 of 10 
5. Braxton Bragg and P.G.T. Beauregard helped this man become head of the Louisiana military academy. 
He stated that he would not run if nominated or serve if elected when asked about running for office, and he 
accepted the surrender of Joseph E. Johnston near Durham following a campaign that included the burning 
of Atlanta. For 10 points, name this Union general who led the March to the Sea. 
ANSWER: William Tecumseh  
Sherman 
BONUS: Sherman and Grant worked in tandem to capture what Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi 
River, on July 4, 1863, that resulted in splitting the Confederacy in half? 
ANSWER:  
Vicksburg 
030-13-88-05105 
6. A type of this activity called the \"oil\" version is the national sport of Turkey. Alexander Karelin was 
upset by Rulon Gardner in another version of this sport, one of the original modern Olympic events in 
1896. This sport was reinstated for the 2020 Olympics after briefly being removed. For 10 points, name this 
combat sport whose \"folkstyle\" version is common in high schools and universities. 
ANSWER:  
wrestling 
 [or word forms] 
BONUS: Besides freestyle, what other type of wrestling is featured in the Olympic Games? 
ANSWER:  
Greco-Roman 
 wrestling 
131-13-88-05106 
7. Shortly before coming to power, this person struggled with the \"Left Opposition\" group led by Nikolai 
Bukharin and Lev Kamenev. Unlike his rival, this man supported the \"socialism in one country\" doctrine. 
He conducted the Great Purge and had Ramon Mercador assassinate Leon Trotsky. For 10 points, name 
this successor to Lenin as the leader of the Soviet Union. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Stalin 
 [or Iosif Vassarionovich  
Stalin 
; or Ioseb Besarionis dze  
Jugashvili 
] 
BONUS: Stalin's economic policies led to the Holodomor famine in what modern-day country, whose city 
of Kiev was the center of the early Russian rulers? 
ANSWER:  
Ukraine 
 [or  
Ukrayina 
] 
186-13-88-05107 
8. This man led a gathering of over five million people at Luneta for World Youth Day in the Philippines, 
and he made consequential visits to Haiti and Argentina shortly before the dictatorships in those countries 
fell. A member of the Grey Wolves, Mehmet Ali Agca, failed to kill this man, who took Opus Dei under 
his own jurisdiction. For 10 points, name this Polish Pope from 1978 to 2005. 
ANSWER:  
John Paul II 
 [or Karol Jozef  
Wojtyla 
; prompt on  
John Paul 
; do not accept or prompt on 
\"John\" or \"Paul\"] 
BONUS: In 1986, John Paul II condemned what movement in the Latin American Church to lend Catholic 
support to left-wing revolutionary movements? 
ANSWER:  
liberation theology 
020-13-88-05108 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  4 of 10 
2013 NHB Set A 
Bowl Round 5 
Third Quarter 
TWENTIETH CENTURY MEXICO 
In twentieth-century Mexico, who or what was the... 
1. Russian revolutionary who was killed with an ice axe in Mexico City in 1940? 
ANSWER: Leon  
Trotsky 
 [or Lev Davidovich  
Bronshtein 
] 
2. Muralist, known for Aztec themes and paintings such as  
Detroit Industry? 
ANSWER: Diego  
Rivera 
 [or Diego Maria de la Concepcion Juan Nepomuceno Estanislao de la Rivera y  
Barrientos 
 Acosta y Rodriguez] 
3. Painter known for her self-portraits, such as a double portrait and one with a monkey? 
ANSWER: Frida  
Kahlo 
 de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frieda  
Kahlo 
 y Calderon] 
4. Bandit rebel pursued by John Pershing? 
ANSWER: Pancho  
Villa 
 [or Francisco  
Villa 
, or Jose Doroteo  
Arango 
 Arambula] 
5. Dominant political party in Mexico for most of the 20th century? 
ANSWER:  
PRI 
 [or  
Partido Revolucionario Institucional 
; or  
Institutional Revolutionary Party 
] 
6. President of Mexico elected in 2000, the first from the PAN? 
ANSWER: Vicente  
Fox 
 Quesada 
7. Commander of the Liberation Army of the South and namesake of a contemporary insurgency? 
ANSWER: Emiliano  
Zapata 
 Salazar 
8. State-owned petroleum company, founded in 1938? 
ANSWER:  
Pemex 
 [or  
Petroleos Mexicanos 
] 
242-13-88-0510-1 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  5 of 10 
ENEMIES OF IMPERIAL CHINA 
Which other country, empire, or tribal land was China fighting when it battled... 
1. Genghis and Kublai Khan? 
ANSWER:  
Mongol 
s 
2. \"Kamikaze\" winds and shogunates? 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nihon 
-koku; or  
Nippon 
-koku; or  
Kamakura 
 shogunate] 
3. The Choson dynasty after it scuttled the turtle ships? 
ANSWER:  
Korea 
4. The Trung sisters, Le Loi, and the Nguyen (WIN) dynasty? 
ANSWER:  
Vietnam 
 [or  
Annam 
] 
5. Over the halting of opium imports? 
ANSWER:  
United Kingdom 
 of Great Britain and Ireland [or  
Great Britain 
; or  
UK 
; prompt on  
England 
] 
6. Raiders who seized northern Song and later founded the Qing (CHING) dynasty? 
ANSWER:  
Manchu 
ria 
7. Rivals of the Gelugpa, or Yellow Hat Buddhist religious sect? 
ANSWER:  
Tibet 
 [or  
Xizang 
] 
8. Ziyad ibn Salih's Muslim army at the Talas River? 
ANSWER:  
Abbasid 
 Caliphate 
104-13-88-0510-1 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  6 of 10 
THE SOUTHERN THEATER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR 
Name the battle in the southern theater of the American Revolution that saw... 
1. The surrender of Cornwallis to George Washington. 
ANSWER:  
Yorktown 
2. The defeat of Banastre Tarleton’s forces by Daniel Morgan in South Carolina grazing lands. 
ANSWER:  
Cowpens 
3. The capture of the South's largest city and the surrender of Benjamin Lincoln. 
ANSWER:  
Charleston 
4. The death of Major Patrick Ferguson at a promontory on the North Carolina-South Carolina border. 
ANSWER:  
Kings Mountain 
5. A strategic victory for Nathanael Greene over Cornwallis at a North Carolina county seat. 
ANSWER:  
Guilford Courthouse 
6. The death of Baron Johann de Kalb and the loss of over 900 patriot soldiers in a major defeat for Horatio 
Gates in South Carolina. 
ANSWER:  
Camden 
7. The defeat of Baron von Steuben by British general William Philips at a Virginia site that later saw the 
Battle of the Crater in the Civil War. 
ANSWER:  
Blandford 
 [or  
Petersburg 
] 
8. The last major battle of the Revolutionary War in the Carolinas, in which Nathanael Greene and Francis 
Marion fought Alexander Stewart near Charleston. 
ANSWER:  
Eutaw Springs 
030-13-88-0510-1 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  7 of 10 
2013 NHB Set A 
Bowl Round 5 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
Near the end of this scandal, a delegation comprised of John Rhodes, Hugh Scott, and Barry 
Goldwater estimated that only \"12 to 15\" Senators remained on one side of the issue. A newscast 
covering this event was shortened after William Paley received a complaint from Chuck Colson. 
Robert (+) Bork fired Archibald Cox during a component of this scandal, the (*) 
 Saturday Night 
Massacre. Investigations into this event were aided by Mark Felt, who used the name \"Deep Throat.\" For 
10 points, five burglars being caught in Washington, D.C., started what scandal that led to the resignation 
of Richard Nixon? 
ANSWER:  
Watergate 
 scandal 
023-13-88-05101 
2.  
This man once outwitted the San Francisco gentlemen Charles Morgan and C.K. Garrison, 
sending them a letter saying \"I won't cheat you, for the law is too slow. I'll ruin you.\" This man 
brought his subordinate Daniel Drew into line during the (+) Erie War. This builder of several 
ostentatious Beaux Arts \"houses\" along the East Coast got his nickname (*) 
 \"Commodore\" during his 
time as a steamship entrepreneur, but he later became a railroad tycoon. For 10 points, name this 
nineteenth-century \"robber baron\" who endowed a namesake university in Nashville. 
ANSWER: Cornelius  
Vanderbilt 
020-13-88-05102 
3.  
In a game exclusive to this console, the real-life murderess Elizabeth Bathory serves as the model 
for Countess Bartley, who is hunted by John Morris. This home console of  Castlevania: Bloodlines 
was advertised with claims that it did \"what (+) Nintendon't\" and used the fictitious \"blast 
processing.\" A major game for this console had a \"Special Stage\" set inside a 360-degree rotating 
maze and required the collection of (*) 
 Chaos Emeralds to thwart Dr. Robotnik. For 10 points, name this 
sixteen-bit console on which  
Sonic the Hedgehog 
 debuted, released by Sega. 
ANSWER: Sega  
Genesis 
 [or Sega  
Mega Drive 
 until it is read] 
020-13-88-05103 
4.  
This man negotiated the release of his compatriot Thomas Dermer. After living with John Slany, 
this man was sent to Cupids Cove. Thomas Hunt kidnapped this man, who later served as a 
translator for Stephen Hopkins and Edward Winslow. This man was introduced to a group of people 
who had already met (+) Samoset, and he returned to his village of Patuxet to find it wiped out by 
disease. He taught skills such as catching (*) 
 eels and planting maize. For 10 points, name this man who 
served as an interpreter in negotiations with Massasoit of the Wampanoag in the seventeenth century for 
the Pilgrims. 
ANSWER:  
Squanto 
 [or  
Tisquantum 
] 
023-13-88-05104 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  8 of 10 
5.  
Evsey Domar explained the existence of serfdom and slavery in some societies as a high ratio 
between peasant populations and this factor. David Ricardo argued that wages could be determined 
only by the marginal productivity of it, and that a tax on this factor was the only tax that would not 
lead to higher (+) prices. That second argument in favor of only taxing this thing was adopted by 
Henry George in  Progress and Poverty.  Physiocrats believed that this factor was the ultimate (*) 
source of all wealth. For 10 points, name this factor of production which people pay rent on. 
ANSWER:  
land 
121-13-88-05105 
6.  
Richard Feynman claimed that years of revisions in this value proceeded too slowly due to 
researcher bias in favor of its first measurement. Gerald Holton accused the scientist who measured 
this value of (+) fraudulently excluding data. The experiment that determined this quantity used a 
setup involving parallel plates and an atomizer. After using the terminal velocity to find mass, this 
quantity was calculated by balancing the (*) 
 electric and gravitational fields. For 10 points, name this 
quantity found by the Millikan oil-drop experiment to be 1.6 times ten to the negative nineteen coulombs. 
ANSWER:  
elementary charge 
 [or  
charge 
 of an  
electron 
] 
226-13-88-05106 
7.  
This composer commemorated the Battle of Culloden with his oratorio  Judas Maccabeus.  A 
collection of pieces written by this composer includes a movement labeled \"alla hornpipe.\" Another 
creation of this composer includes a movement titled \"Rejoicing\" that follows a (+) siciliano 
movement called \"Peace.\" This composer wrote that suite to celebrate the signing of the Treaty of (*) 
Aix-la-Chapelle, and also wrote a piece for a river cruise of George I. For 10 points, name this 
German-born English composer of  
Music for the Royal Fireworks 
 and  
Water Music. 
ANSWER: George Frideric  
Handel 
023-13-88-05107 
8.  
This author recounts an exchange between men who burn corpses and others who eat their dead, 
concluding, like Pindar, that \"Custom is king of all.\" This man wrote that Cambyses (cam-BYE-sees) 
died after falling from a horse. He shared a (+) fanciful story of a boy rescued by dolphins at the start 
of his nine-book magnum opus. This resident of Halicarnassus described how Lydia fell to (*) 
 Cyrus 
the Great years before Athenian boats at Salamis defeated the Persian invasion of Greece. For 10 points, 
name this Greek whose pioneering chronicles earned him the title \"Father of History.\" 
ANSWER:  
Herodotus 
 of Halicarnassus 
104-13-88-05108 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  9 of 10 
2013 NHB Set A 
Bowl Round 5 
Extra Questions 
This is a tossup provided for breaking ties or replacing a flubbed or erroneous question at any point in the 
packet. The power marks are provided so that it may be scored according to fourth quarter rules if it is 
replacing a fourth quarter question. The power marks should be ignored if this tossup is used to replace a 
first or second quarter question. 
A king from this dynasty engineered the Black Acts to increase his control over religion and was 
targeted by Protestants in the Ruthven Raid. A ruler of this house promoted the power of the church 
with the Clarendon Code and also reigned during Titus Oates’s fabricated (+) Popish Plot. Another 
ruler of this house employed Prince Rupert of the Rhine, who fought the New Model Army at the 
Battle of (*) 
 Naseby. After the death of Queen Anne, it was succeeded by the House of Hanover. For 10 
points, name this royal house of James I and Charles I, which was temporarily overthrown by the English 
Civil War. 
ANSWER: House of  
Stuart 
052-13-88-0510-1 
BONUS: What was the state religion of empires in present-day Iran before the arrival of Islam? 
ANSWER:  
Zoroastrianism 
019-13-88-0510-1 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2013 NHB Set A     Bowl Round 5     Page  10 of 10 
