NASAT 2012 
Round 18 
Tossups 
1. The protagonist of one work set in this country writes the poem “15/3” about his time spent with 
Rosario. Later on that character roams around this country with Lupe and the visceral realist Arturo Belano. 
This country is the setting of Roberto Bolano’s books  
The Savage Detectives 
 and  
2666. 
 One author from 
this country wrote a novel in which the title character’s son Lorenzo is killed in the Spanish Civil war. The 
love triangle between the teacher Harriet Winslow, Thomas Arroyo, and the title character is central to 
another novel by an author from this country, whose title refers to Ambrose Bierce. For 10 points, what 
country is home to the author of  
The Old Gringo 
 and  
The Death of Artemio Cruz, 
 Carlos Fuentes? 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
 [or  
United Mexican States 
; or  
Estados Unidos Mexicanos 
] 
149-12-59-18102 
2. The Sao civilization flourished near this lake, whose floating islands are home to the Buduma people. 
Fish caught in this lake are sold as  
banda 
 and  
salanga. 
 The town of Bol lies on the shore of this lake. This 
lake's northern and southern sections are divided by a ridge of swampland. The Ngadda and Yobe Rivers 
both flow into this lake, but the Chari (SHA-ree) River provides ninety percent of its water. Over the past 
forty years, its surface area has shrunk from 15,000 to 500 square miles. For 10 points, name this African 
lake surrounded by Cameroon, Niger, Nigeria, and its namesake country, which is directly south of Libya. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Chad 
080-12-59-18103 
3. This medium was used by Marc Chagall for  
The Four Seasons 
, which is displayed in Chicago's Chase 
Building. French street artist Invader uses this medium to tag buildings with images from  
Space Invaders 
. 
This medium is used to depict Jerusalem in the Madaba Map, which is located in the Church of St. George 
in Jordan. Another work in this genre was discovered in the House of the Faun in 1831 and depicts the 
Battle of Issus. Works in this medium, which are formed from tesserae, line the side of the benches in 
Gaudi's Parc Guell. For 10 points, name these works found on the floor of many houses in Pompeii, which 
are formed from small stones stuck onto a surface. 
ANSWER:  
mosaic 
s 
015-12-59-18104 
4. The original plan for this city was drawn out in grains of barley, which were predictably eaten by 
surrounding birds. This city was connected to a nearby island by the Heptastadion. After this city's 
inhabitants mockingly compared Caracalla to Oedipus, he massacred its youth in a rage. The modern word 
\"museum\" comes from this city's \"Institution of the Muses,\" or Mouseion. The Septuagint was produced 
here for the use of Greek-speaking Jews in its Delta Quarter. This city was the intellectual capital of the 
Hellenistic world because it was home to scholars such as Callimachus and Euclid. For 10 points, name this 
capital of the Ptolemaic Kingdom, an Egyptian city named for a great conqueror. 
ANSWER:  
Alexandria 
 [or  
Al-Iskandariyyah 
] 
080-12-59-18105 
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  1 of 12 
5. This thinker made a distinction between actions and underlying motives which he called exterior and 
interior acts. He separated out eternal, divine, natural, and human forms of law, of which eternal law 
consists of the mind of God. He remarked that all his work seemed like “straw,” refusing to write for the 
last four years of his life. His typical formula was saying “On the contrary” and “I respond that…” after 
giving several objections to a problematic question. One section of his major work lays out the criteria for 
\"just war.\" For 10 points, name this student of Albertus Magnus, a Dominican friar who created the  
Summa 
theologica. 
ANSWER: Saint Thomas  
Aquinas 
 [or Tomaso  
Aquino 
; or Saint  
Thomas of Aquin 
; prompt on Saint  
Thomas 
] 
104-12-59-18106 
6. One emerald-shaped type of these objects was found in the constellation Eridanus. The number of these 
objects with a certain mass can be found by the Press-Schechter formalism. These objects are the smallest 
objects that overcame the Jeans criterion during virialization. It is believed that these objects formed out of 
early density fluctuations, which are evident in the CMBR. The lack of a drop-off in the rotation curves of 
these objects led to the prediction of dark matter. Narrow line emissions dominate the type 2 of the Seyfert 
types of these objects. Most of these objects should contain a supermassive black hole at their center. For 
10 points, the Milky Way is an example of what massive collections of stars? 
ANSWER:  
galaxy 
 [do not accept or prompt on spiral  
galaxies 
 or elliptical  
galaxies 
] 
149-12-59-18107 
7. In the  
Poetic Edda 
, Attila partakes in this activity before dying. A group of Arcadian shepherds of the 
oak cult uniquely performed this activity to honor Zeus Lycaeus. Atreus punished his brother for sleeping 
with Aerope by tricking that brother, Thyestes, into doing this. Humans turn into Wendigos by participating 
in this activity. In order to get revenge on Tereus, Procne tricks him into partaking in this activity. This 
activity is performed by Antiphates and his underlings, the Laestrygonians. For 10 points, name this action 
that Tantalus tried to trick the gods of Olympus into performing when he served them his son, Pelops. 
ANSWER:  
cannibalism 
 [or  
eating humans 
; or more specific answers, like  
eating a son eating a friend 
,  , 
etc.] 
020-12-59-18108 
8. During this battle, one side failed to successfully use bags of sugarcane to fill Rodriguez Canal under the 
leadership of Thomas Mullins. Samuel Woodworth celebrated this battle with his song \"The Hunters of 
Kentucky.\" Fort Bowyer was captured shortly after this battle by Admiral Cochrane. Fighting at this battle 
occurred near Chalmette Plantation, and it saw the death of Edward Pakenham. Pierre and Jean Lafitte were 
both pardoned for fighting in this battle, which occurred two weeks after the signing of the Treaty of Ghent. 
For 10 points, name this rout of the British by Andrew Jackson during the War of 1812. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
New Orleans 
 [or Siege of  
New Orleans 
] 
149-12-59-18109 
9. In one infection, this condition is triggered by an inflammatory response to Wolbachia pipentis, which is 
carried by Onchocerca volvulus. Anton’s syndrome is a phenomenon in which patients refuse to believe 
they have this condition after brain damage. A transient form of this condition is called amarosis fugax, 
which is caused by transient ischemic attacks. Mutations in complex I of the electron transport chain cause 
this condition in a mitochondrially inherited syndrome named for Leber. Another infectious cause of it is 
caused by C. trachomatis, a subspecies of chlamydia, in infants. Most instances of this condition are caused 
by glaucoma or cataracts. For 10 points, name this condition in which patients are unable to see. 
ANSWER:  
blindness 
 [or equivalents; accept anything involving the optic nerve, eye, lens, or retina being 
damaged] 
048-12-59-18110 
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  2 of 12 
10. The protagonist of this work has fun instead of an aesthetic experience in a church when her 
companion, the \"lady writer\" Miss Lavish, wanders off with their Baedeker guidebook. In this work, the 
protagonist witnesses a stabbing that results in her photographs of art being ruined by splattered blood. A 
man kisses the protagonist after she falls into a bed of violets in this novel, in which Freddy dismisses the 
medieval-sounding request of Cecil Vyse for his sister's hand. For 10 points, name this novel by E. M. 
Forster in which Lucy Honeychurch marries George Emerson, who offered her the title location. 
ANSWER:  
A  Room with a View 
105-12-59-18111 
11. A work sometimes considered to be an unnumbered one of these includes a movement named for the 
title character and his sister. The fifth of these works ends with five dominant chords separated by grand 
pauses, followed by a final tonic E-flat chord. In the first of these works, the finale opens with the violins 
repeating a melody that was first heard as an extended clarinet solo over timpani at the beginning of the 
first movement. Some critics suggest that the second of these works depicts the struggle for freedom in 
Finland. For 10 points, name these seven orchestral works, not counting  
Kullervo 
, by the composer of  
The 
Swan of Tuonela 
. 
ANSWER:  
symphonies 
 by Jean  
Sibelius 
142-12-59-18112 
12. One character in this novel wears clothes of mourning every April 30th in memory of Marguerite de 
Navarre’s burial of the head of her lover. Based on the real-life story of Antoine Berthet, this novel opens 
in the town of Verrieres, whose mayor, the owner of a nail factory, dismisses the main character after 
receiving a letter from Monsieur Valenod. The protagonist of this novel is executed for shooting his former 
lover in church while the assembly’s heads are bowed before the host. This work follows an admirer of 
Napoleon who studies in the seminary under Abbe Pirard and seeks to rise through society by sleeping with 
Madame de Renal and Mathilde de la Mole. For 10 points, name this \"Chronicle of 1830\" about Julien 
Sorel written by Stendhal. 
ANSWER:  
The  Red and the Black 
 [or  
Le  Rouge et le Noir 
; or  
The  Red and Black 
; or  
The  Scarlet and 
Black 
] 
080-12-59-18113 
13. This man served as the Mayor of Plymouth while living in the manor Buckland Abbey, which he had 
obtained with some trickery from Richard Grenville. This man had Thomas Doughty executed for mutiny 
on an expedition this man led to \"find out places meet to have traffic.\" On the  
Revenge 
, this man served 
under Charles Howard and fought directly against the  
San Martin 
 of the Duke of Medina Sidonia; that fight 
occurred during the Battle of Gravelines against the Spanish Armada. This man led an attack on Cadiz that 
was described as \"singeing the King of Spain's beard.\" For 10 points, name this admiral who sailed for 
Elizabethan England and, on his ship the  
Golden Hind 
, circumnavigated the world. 
ANSWER: Francis  
Drake 
023-12-59-18114 
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  3 of 12 
14. John Koch suggested that Tartessian was the earliest member of this language group, and its “tree 
alphabet” was used in many of its medieval inscriptions; that alphabet is called ogham. This language 
group is broken into continental and insular branches, and the insular branch is further broken into P- and 
Q- groups. The most widely spoken language in this group includes digraphs like “dd,” “ff,” and “rh” in its 
alphabet, and that language is thought to be related to Cumbric, an extinct member of this group. Manx is a 
recently revived language in this group, and the Goidelic and Brythonic branches of this language group 
were used to write the Mabinogion and the Tain bo Cuailnge, respectively. For 10 points, name these 
languages that are spoken in places like Cape Breton Island, Wales, and Ireland. 
ANSWER:  
Celtic 
 languages [or  
Celtic 
 language group or  
Celtic 
 language family] 
148-12-59-18115 
15. One problem encountered during this process is called tailing and is caused by a lack of an isotherm. 
One type of this process is governed by an equation which sets the HETP equal to the sum of terms 
representing mass transfer, eddy diffusion, and longitudinal diffusion. Several forms of this process 
calculate the ratio of the distance traveled by the analyte to the distance traveled by the solvent as the 
retention factor. Types include ion-exchange and high-performance liquid forms. The gas form of this 
technique is performed prior to mass spectroscopy. In another kind of this technique, the eluent is drawn up 
a column of a namesake kind of paper. For 10 points, name this lab technique which uses a stationary phase 
and a mobile phase to separate chemical mixtures. 
ANSWER:  
chromatography 
003-12-59-18116 
16. In one of this man's earliest military actions, he commanded his people at Rephidim, a battle at which 
his forces only did well when his superior's arms were held up. This commander's defeat in his attempted 
conquest of Ai is attributed to one of his soldiers, Achan, pillaging gold and silver. One of this man's 
victories against a coalition of Amorite rulers is notable since it is the only occurrence in the Bible in which 
God kept the sun from setting. He was among the twelve spies sent to report on Canaan; Caleb and this 
man were the only ones to return with positive reports. For 10 points, name this character in the Old 
Testament who led the Israelites after the death of Moses. 
ANSWER:  
Joshua 
 [or  
Yehoshu'a 
; or  
Hoshe'a 
] 
064-12-59-18117 
17. This man's supporters constructed large floats of his opponent that featured bags of money on his 
opponent's shoulders and naked blonde women in his arms. The CIA-liason to the coup against this man 
was Lucien Conein. One protest was organized in response to this man's Decree No. 10, which prohibited 
the display of religious flags. That led to this man's government's denial of misconduct in the killing of 9 
unarmed citizens by Matthew Dang Sy, which led to the Buddhist Crisis. This man let \"strategic hamlets\" 
be built in his country, and gained power after pledging to ignore the Geneva Accords during a fraudulent 
1955 referendum in which he defeated Bao Dai, the last Nguyen emperor. For 10 points, name this first 
president of South Vietnam. 
ANSWER: Ngo Dinh  
Diem 
 [or  
Ngo 
 Dinh Diem] 
149-12-59-18118 
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  4 of 12 
18. This property can be observed in collagen because dipoles within it form a biological electret. This 
phenomenon is observed in twenty of the twenty-one non-centrosymmetric crystal classes. It is described 
by a set of four coefficients, two for its direct form and two for its converse form. One material with this 
property provides the balancing force to control height in an atomic force microscope. Another material 
with this property, barium titanate, is used in microphones. The mathematical description of this 
phenomenon relates a material’s electric displacement to a quantity calculated by Hooke’s law. For 10 
points, name this phenomenon wherein a solid acquires a voltage in response to strain. 
ANSWER:  
piezoelectricity 
132-12-59-18119 
19. This poem describes the “sluggish clod, which the rude swain turns with his share, and treads upon” 
and “Old Ocean’s gray and melancholy waste.” The speaker notes how “each one as before will chase his 
favorite phantom” after the central event. This poem advises that one “go forth, under the open sky, and list 
to Nature’s teachings” when feeling “sick at heart.” This poem instructs the addressee to act “like one who 
wraps the drapery of his couch about him” in contrast to “the quarry-slave at night, scourged to his 
dungeon,” and concludes by comparing death to lying down to pleasant dreams. For 10 points, name this 
poem by William Cullen Bryant. 
ANSWER: “ 
Thanatopsis 
” 
014-12-59-18120 
20. Examples of these works include  
The Argonauts Carnival Actors 
,  ,  , and  
Acrobats 
, which the 
Expressionist Max Beckmann created in Amsterdam. The Furies of the  
Oresteia 
 inspired the disturbing 
creatures in another work of this type, exhibited near the end of World War II. Francis Bacon used this 
form to depict \"Figures at the Base of a Crucifixion.\" A famous example of these works , when closed, 
depicts the Creation, but when opened, depicts Earth, Heaven, and Hell. For 10 points, name this type of 
painting exemplified by  
The Garden of Earthly Delights 
, which consists of three panels. 
ANSWER:  
triptych 
 [do not accept \"altarpiece\"] 
080-12-59-18121 
21. The Refuse-nik Natan Shransky was one of the figures associated with monitoring compliance with this 
agreement, and Enver Hoxha refused to allow his country to be party to this agreement. Henry Kissinger 
called this agreement \"a bunch of crappy ideas.\" The organization Human Rights Watch arose out of this 
non-binding agreement, which was divided into three \"baskets.\" This agreement occurred at the conclusion 
of the first Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. It attempted to reduce tension between the 
Soviet and Western blocs by securing acceptance of post-war borders and by promoting political freedom. 
For 10 points, name this 1975 diplomatic agreement that was signed in the capital of Finland. 
ANSWER:  
Helsinki 
 Accords 
030-12-59-18122 
22. At the end of this novel, one character wears a vial filled with morphine crystals around her neck. In 
this novel, a prostitute named Ethel extorts a hundred dollars a month from that character, who gets beaten 
up by the righteous pimp Mr. Edwards. Another character in this novel burns fifteen thousand dollars that 
he intended to give his father, who lost all his family’s money in a business venture involving the shipping 
of refrigerated vegetables. Earlier in this novel, Abra Bacon begins dating Aron, who enlists in World War 
I after learning that his mother is the brothel owner Cathy Ames. The housekeeper Lee defines  
timshel 
while discussing the Cain and Abel story in this novel. For 10 points, name this John Steinbeck novel about 
the Trask family. 
ANSWER:  
East of Eden 
079-12-59-18123 
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  5 of 12 
23. A generic chart version of these constructs can be described using Harel notation. One can convert 
between the two main types of these constructs by using the subset construction. The delta functions for 
these constructs are a mapping from the cross product of capital sigma and S to S. Two popular models of 
designing these constructs are the Mealy and Moore models. They aren't languages, but these objects 
correspond to the smallest set in the standard Chomsky hierarchy. The diagrams used to depict these 
constructs and their more powerful relatives often use a double circle to indicate an accept state. For 10 
points, identify these constructs that hold a limited amount of information and change states according to 
their transition function. 
ANSWER:  
FSM 
s [or  
finite-state machine 
s; or  
finite-state automata 
; accept 
deterministic/nondeterministic  
finite-state automata DFA 
,  , or  
NFA 
 before \"deterministic and 
nondeterministic types\" is read] 
066-12-59-18124 
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  6 of 12 
NASAT 2012 
Round 18 
Bonuses 
1. These boundaries are responsible for forming mid-ocean ridges. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of plate boundary that results from two separating tectonic plates. 
ANSWER:  
divergent 
 plate boundary 
[10] This process, which helps explain continental drift, occurs at mid-ocean ridges. One test of this process 
was provided by the Morley-Vine-Matthews hypothesis. 
ANSWER:  
seafloor spreading 
[10] When seawater is heated above 150 Celsius, hydroxides of this element precipitate, causing the 
recharge seawater to be more acidic. Below 200 C, those precipitates are smectites, while above 200 C they 
are generally chlorites. 
ANSWER:  
magnesium 
 [or  
Mg 
] 
149-12-59-18201  
2. One of these beings named Babalu Aye is connected to disease and healing, and one named Eshu 
represents death. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these manifestations of the Yoruban deity Olorun in a syncretic religion. 
ANSWER:  
Orisha 
s 
[10] Orishas are spirits from this religion practiced in West Africa and the Caribbean. Some of its 
practitioners controversially sacrifice chickens. 
ANSWER:  
Santeria 
[10] The Orisha Shango is often conflated with this Catholic saint. She was tortured and killed by her father 
Dioscurus, who was subsequently struck by lightning. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Barbara 
015-12-59-18202  
3. In response to this decision, a ballot initiative in Ware, New Hampshire proposed to build the \"Lost 
Liberty Hotel\" atop David Souter's home. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Supreme Court case, arising from plans to build a shopping center in Connecticut. 
ANSWER:  
Kelo  v. City of New London 
[10]  
Kelo 
 involved the use, for private benefit, of this action, by which a state seizes a citizen's private 
property with due compensation but without consent. 
ANSWER:  
eminent domain 
 [or  
compulsory purchase 
; or  
resumption 
; or  
compulsory acquisition 
; or  
expropriation 
; or  
condemnation 
] 
[10] Eminent domain is often used to build these structures, part of a system named for Dwight D. 
Eisenhower. 
ANSWER: interstate  
highway 
s 
020-12-59-18203  
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  7 of 12 
4. This man created a  
Portrait of Painter Bazille 
 and in his old age, he hired Richard Guino to follow his 
sculpting instructions. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French painter of  
Luncheon of the Boating Party 
. 
ANSWER: Pierre-Auguste  
Renoir 
[10] This other French painter was a longtime owner of Renoir’s  
Moulin de la Galette 
, and that painting 
can be seen in this man’s self-portrait. He is perhaps more famous for  
The Floor Scrapers 
 and  
Paris Street: 
Rainy Day 
. 
ANSWER: Gustave  
Caillebotte 
[10] Renoir also painted this Impressionist painter of  
The Boat During the Flood, Port-Marly 
. This English 
painter also created a series of paintings of the Thames. 
ANSWER: Alfred  
Sisley 
030-12-59-18204  
5. A smear campaign from the 1840s claimed this family's member Nathan made his fortune through 
speculation after learning the outcome of Waterloo before the general public. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this banking family whose English branch was elevated to the peerage and whose member 
Walter was the recipient of the Balfour Declaration. 
ANSWER:  
Rothschild 
s 
[10] The Rothschilds funded this man when he started the De Beers diamond company. His British South 
Africa Company administered the colony named for him that became Zimbabwe after independence. 
ANSWER: Cecil  
Rhodes 
[10] This company was the Rothschilds largest rival until 1890, when Argentina nearly defaulted on the 
many loans this bank had made to the country. A consortium of English banks provided funds to prop up 
this company to prevent it and the rest of the banking system from collapsing completely. 
ANSWER:  
Baring 
s Bank [or  
Baring 
 Brothers and Company; or John and Francis  
Baring 
 and Company] 
121-12-59-18205  
6. Answer the following about opium production in the present day, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Central Asian country is the largest opium producer in the world, particularly in its Helmand and 
Kandahar provinces along the southern border with Pakistan. 
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of  
Afghanistan 
 [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye  
Afganistan 
; or Da  
Afganistan 
Islami Jomhoriyat] 
[10] This Indian state’s city of Ghazipur contains a legally-licensed opium factory. It lies in India’s 
northeast on the border with Nepal and has a capital at Lucknow. 
ANSWER:  
Uttar Pradesh 
[10] This mountainous area of Thailand, Laos, Myanmar, and Vietnam is so named because of the 
extremely high, but declining, profits made from opium production. It also names the Indian tourist circuit 
of Delhi, Agra, and Jaipur. 
ANSWER:  
Golden Triangle 
104-12-59-18206  
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  8 of 12 
7. One example of this type of reaction is the Briggs-Rauscher reaction. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these chemical reactions which oscillate periodically between two states. 
ANSWER:  
clock 
 reactions [or  
chemical clock 
s] 
[10] In one common clock reaction, a triatomic anion of this element forms a dark blue color. In its 
elemental form, this halogen is solid and sublimates into a purple vapor. 
ANSWER:  
iodine 
[10] The dark blue color comes from triiodide complexing with this carbohydrate that is broken down by 
the enzyme amylase (AH-mih-lays) 
ANSWER:  
starch 
 [or  
amylum 
] 
132-12-59-18207  
8. In one work, this author said that he was sure that Moby-Dick was a symbol, but he was not sure of 
what. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author of  
Studies in Classic American Literature 
 who also wrote about the title character 
tormenting his orderly until he snaps and kills him in \"The Prussian Officer.\" 
ANSWER: David Herbert  
Lawrence 
[10] In this novel by Lawrence, the title gamekeeper, Oliver Mellors, is a former miner and soldier who is 
separated from his wife when he begins an affair with Constance. 
ANSWER:  
Lady Chatterley's Lover 
[10] The protagonist of this Lawrence short story predicts the outcome of races in order to win money for 
his poor but greedy mother. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Rocking-Horse Winner 
\" 
105-12-59-18208  
9. The armor worn by participants in this sport could weigh up to 50 kilograms. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this sport played between two lance-wielding horsemen, a staple of popular culture depictions 
of medieval knights. 
ANSWER:  
joust 
ing 
[10] Regarded as the greatest jouster of his time, this Anglo-Norman soldier took as his name the position 
of English household security, serving four Plantagenet kings. 
ANSWER: Sir William  
Marshal 
, 1st Earl of Pembroke [or William the  
Marshal 
; prompt on  
William 
] 
[10] This more disorganized form of tournament combat that preceded jousting eventually came to denote 
close-range combat in general. 
ANSWER:  
melee 
020-12-59-18209  
10. Name these Jewish authors, for 10 points each. 
[10] This author fictionalized the life of his friend Allan Bloom in  
Ravelstein. 
 He also wrote  
Herzog 
 and  
The Adventures of Augie March. 
ANSWER: Saul  
Bellow 
[10] This Lithuanian-born author wrote  
Yekl: A Tale of the New York Ghetto 
 and created a Russian 
immigrant who builds a profitable suit business by exploiting his employees in  
The Rise of David Levinsky. 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Cahan 
[10] This author dealt extensively with the experience of Jews in America in his novels  
The Promise, My 
Name Is Asher Lev, 
 and  
The Chosen. 
ANSWER: Chaim  
Potok 
 [or Herman Harold  
Potok 
] 
080-12-59-18210  
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  9 of 12 
11. The Hamming type of this function between two strings is equal to the number of symbols that are 
different. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of function, which satisfies criteria of non-negativity, symmetry, andthe triangle 
inequality. On the real line, this function is the absolute value of the difference of two points. 
ANSWER:  
distance 
 function [or  
metric 
] 
[10] In this type of metric space, every Cauchy sequence has a limit inside the space. The reals are an 
example of this type of space, while the rationals are not. 
ANSWER:  
complete 
 [or word forms] 
[10] A generalization of the Heine-Borel theorem states that any space will be compact if and only if it is 
complete and has this property. This property implies a set can be covered with a finite number of balls of 
fixed size, but does not necessarily fall within a single ball. 
ANSWER:  
totally bounded 
 [do not accept or prompt on “bounded”] 
121-12-59-18211  
12. Identify the following allies of the Trojans, for 10 points each: 
[10] Penthesileia, the queen of these warrior women, came to the assistance of the Trojans. 
ANSWER: the  
Amazons 
[10] Sleep and Death carry away the body of this son of Zeus for burial in Lycia after he is killed by 
Patroclus. This great warrior is described as falling like struck timber. 
ANSWER:  
Sarpedon 
[10] The Greeks kill this Thracian king in a night raid shortly after his arrival because of a prophecy stating 
that Troy would not fall if this man's horses drank from the Xanthus. 
ANSWER:  
Rhesus 
105-12-59-18212  
13. This poem ends by describing how \"an image enters in, rushes down through the tense, arrested 
muscles, plunges into the heart and is gone.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem whose title figure's \"vision, from the constantly passing bars, has grown so weary that 
it cannot hold anything else.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Panther 
\" [or \"Der  
Panther 
\"] 
[10] This German poet of the  
Duino Elegies 
 wrote \"The Panther.\" 
ANSWER: Rainer Maria  
Rilke 
[10] This sequence of fifty-five poems by Rilke was written at the same time as the  
Duino Elegies. 
 Several 
of these poems concern poetry itself and invoke the title Greek musician. 
ANSWER:  
Sonnets to Orpheus 
105-12-59-18213  
14. Answer these questions about Gothic architecture, for 10 points each. 
[10] These arches redirected the weight of the cathedral downward, which allowed architects to construct 
taller buildings. 
ANSWER:  
flying buttresses 
[10] This section of the church, the main body where parishioners stood, extended from the narthex to the 
transepts. 
ANSWER: the  
nave 
[10] This late-Gothic style of French architecture grew out of the Rayonnant style. It takes its name from 
the flame-like ogee arch seen frequently in its buildings. 
ANSWER:  
flamboyant 
 style 
080-12-59-18214  
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  10 of 12 
15. This movement was divided between those who promoted \"physical force,\" like Feargus O'Connor, and 
those who advocated \"moral force,\" like William Lovett. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this British social movement of the 1830s and '40s, which was organized into local \"Working 
Men's Associations.\" It championed a namesake document that proposed six reforms. 
ANSWER:  
Chartism 
 [or  
Chartist 
 Movement] 
[10] This author of a pamphlet on Chartism coined the phrase \"a whiff of grapeshot\" in his history of the 
French Revolution. He also espoused the \"great man\" theory of history in  
On Heroes and Hero Worship 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Carlyle 
[10] All or nothing, name any three of the six reforms proposed in the People's Charter. You have 10 
seconds. 
ANSWER: any three of  
universal male suffrage equal electoral districts allowing those without 
,  ,  
property to serve in Parliament payment of M.P.'s annual parliamentary elections 
,  ,  , and the  
secret 
ballot 
080-12-59-18215  
16. Their first collaboration was a work called  
Thespis, or the Gods Grown Old 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these two men, the composer and librettist of operettas including  
Iolanthe The Yeomen of the 
,  
Guard 
, and  
The Pirates of Penzance 
. 
ANSWER: W(illiam) S(chwenck)  
Gilbert 
 and Arthur Seymour  
Sullivan 
 [both required; accept in either 
order] 
[10] In  
The Pirates of Penzance 
, the Major-General boasts that he can \"whistle all the airs\" from this earlier 
Gilbert and Sullivan work, which he refers to as \"that infernal nonsense.\" In this work, Ralph Rackstraw 
marries the daughter of the captain of the title ship, and Sir Joseph Porter sings the song \"When I was a 
lad.\" 
ANSWER:  
H.M.S.  Pinafore : or, The Lass That Loved a Sailor 
[10] Like the Major-General's song, \"When I was a lad\" is an example of this type of musical number 
common in Gilbert and Sullivan's works, characterized by comical lyrics sung very fast. Another example 
is the \"Nightmare Song\" from  
Iolanthe 
. 
ANSWER:  
patter 
 song 
142-12-59-18216  
17. A Scottish man with this last name lost a libel suit to  
Lambton Observer 
 editor Malcolm Cameron 
before becoming a politician. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give this name shared by the Canadian prime minister who introduced the secret ballot and the leader 
of the Upper Canada rebellion who fought the Battle of Montgomery's Tavern. 
ANSWER:  
Mackenzie 
 [or Alexander  
Mackenzie 
; or William Lyon  
Mackenzie 
] 
[10] Alexander Mackenzie became Canadian prime minster following this man's downfall due to the 
Pacific Scandal. This man formed the Great Coalition with George Brown and authorized the Wolseley 
expedition against the Red River Rebellion. 
ANSWER: John  
Macdonald 
[10] While serving as prime minister, John Macdonald handled raids by this group of Irish patriots. The 
Niagara Raid by this group involved fighting at Ridgeway and was led by T.W. Sweeny. 
ANSWER:  
Fenian 
 Brotherhood 
149-12-59-18217  
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  11 of 12 
18. For a mechanical system, this quantity is equal to force divided by velocity; for an electrical system, it 
equals voltage divided by current. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this complex analog of resistance, denoted Z, that is used in place of resistance when analyzing 
AC circuits. 
ANSWER:  
impedance 
[10] This device contributes a reactance proportional to one over the angular frequency to the impedance. 
The voltage drop across it is equal to charge divided by a quantity measured in farads. 
ANSWER:  
capacitor 
[10] In a mechanical system, this device contributes a frequency-independent impedance, denoted mu. This 
device is usually added to a spring in a model of a damped oscillator. 
ANSWER:  
dashpot 
003-12-59-18218  
19. This novel's author based the character of Squire Hawkins on his own cousin, James Lampton, who 
similarly tried to make a fortune by speculating in land in Tennessee. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel, in which a boiler explosion during a steamboat race orphans Laura, who later goes 
on trial for shooting the bigamous Colonel Selby. 
ANSWER:  
The  Gilded Age 
[10]  
The Gilded Age 
 was a collaboration between Charles Dudley Warner and this author of  
The Innocents 
Abroad 
 and “The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg.” 
ANSWER: Mark  
Twain 
 [or Samuel Langhorne  
Clemens 
] 
[10] A boiler explosion on a steamboat also occurs in this Mark Twain work, which describes the author’s 
own experiences learning to pilot the  
Pennsylvania 
 and the  
Gold Dust. 
ANSWER:  
Life on the Mississippi 
019-12-59-18219  
20. Answer some questions about protein structure determination, for 10 points each: 
[10] X-ray crystallographers constantly seek to minimize this value, which is a factor giving the degree of 
agreement a structure has with the diffraction data. 
ANSWER:  -factor [or  
R residual 
 factor; or  
reliability 
 factor; or  
R-value 
; or  
R 
work 
; or  
discrepancy 
 index] 
[10] Protein structure determination is sometimes pretty annoying; David Eisen may have felt that way 
when he solved the structure of this enzyme, the first involved in carbon fixation, completely backwards. 
ANSWER:  
Rubisco 
 [or  
Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase 
] 
[10] Protein determination uses X-ray crystallography, much like the determination of DNA structure did. 
This scientist actually produced the diffraction images of DNA, but was not credited in the Nobel. 
ANSWER: Rosalind Elsie  
Franklin 
020-12-59-18220  
21. Aristotle’s  
Poetics 
 focuses on this genre, discussing the role of  
hamartia 
 and  
catharsis. 
 For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this dramatic genre, Jacobean examples of which include  
Coriolanus 
 and  
Antony and 
Cleopatra. 
ANSWER:  
tragedy 
[10] In this other Jacobean tragedy by John Webster, the title widow is murdered at the behest of her 
brothers, Ferdinand and the Cardinal, for defiantly marrying her steward Antonio. 
ANSWER:  
The  Duchess of Malfi 
[10] In  
The Duchess of Malfi, 
 Bosola is surprised that the Duchess is not terrified of this object, in response 
to which she notes that “death hath ten thousand several doors for men to take their exits.” 
ANSWER: a  
cord 
 [or a  
rope 
] 
014-12-59-18221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 18     Page  12 of 12 
