Colonia Tournament 
Round 1 
First Period, 20 Tossups 
1. This artist's portrait of Pope Innocent the Tenth was modified by the modern painter Francis Bacon. This 
artist painted the god Bacchus crowning a drunken reveler with laurels in his work  
Los borrachos 
. This man 
painted himself holding a palette and wearing a black robe with a cross on it in his another painting. That 
painting by this man also depicts a girl stepping on a dog, and a dwarf attending to the Infanta Margarita. For 
10 points, name this court painter to Philip IV who painted Maids of Honor in his  
Las Meninas 
. 
ANSWER: Diego  
Velazquez 
015-10-14-01101 
2. This element forms cluster compounds with iron, and those cluster compounds are important to enzymes 
like coenzyme Q-cytochrome c reductase (CO-EN-zime \"Q\" SY-toe-krome \"C\" ree-DUCK-tase). Bonds 
between two of this element, which form between cysteine (SIS-teen) residues, are critical to protein 
conformation. This element has an isotope that forms an eight-atom ring. For 10 points, name this element 
associated with the smell of rotten eggs, with atomic number sixteen. 
ANSWER:  
sulfur 
022-10-14-01102 
3. This man was the victorious commander at a battle that saw the bribing of the grain outpost commander at 
Clastidium and in which his half-brother Mago opened with an ambush. In addition to defeating Tiberius 
Sempronius Longus at Trebia, this man ambushed Gaius Flaminius and drove Roman forces into Lake 
Trasimene. This man's brother's head was thrown into his camp at one point. This man was victorious at 
Cannae before losing at Zama. For 10 points, name this commander during the Second Punic War, the 
Carthaginian brother of Hasdrubal and son of Hamilcar Barca. 
ANSWER:  
Hannibal 
026-10-14-01103 
4. The concurrent type of this process is contrasted with the incremental type, both of which stop a program 
in question for shorter times than \"stop the world.\" This process prevents segmentation faults because it 
stops dangling pointers. For 10 points, name this process wherein a program creates more space by 
destroying objects that aren't in use anymore. 
ANSWER:  
garbage collection 
033-10-14-01104 
5. This leader's military launched Operation Uranus and won the Battle of Kursk. This leader targeted Jews 
during the Doctors Plot, but died before he could finish it. He outlined the concept of \"Socialism within One 
Country.\" His foreign minister was Molotov and he ordered the assassination of Trotsky. At the Yalta and 
Potsdam conferences, this member of the Big Three was given control over the future Warsaw Pact. For 10 
points, name this dictator of the Soviet Union during WW2, the successor of Lenin. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Stalin 
021-10-14-01105 
6. The log of the partition function times Boltzmann's constant times temperature yields one form of this 
quantity. The type of this calculated by subtracting the product of temperature and entropy from internal 
energy also gives that quantity and is named for Helmholtz. Enthalpy minus the product of temperature and 
entropy is equal to the Gibbs variety of this quantity. For 10 points, name this quantity, the amount of useful 
work that can be extracted from a system. 
ANSWER:  
free energy 
032-10-14-01106 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  1 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. In the fortune-telling scheme of this belief system, kichi (KEY-CHEE) signifies a blessing, while kyo 
signifies a curse. Honden and Torii (TO-REE-EE) make up the places of worship of this religion, the most 
famous of which is the Ise (EE-SAY) Shrine. “The way of the gods” is the literal name of this religion, 
although its objects of worship are spirits called kami. For 10 points, Amaterasu is the chief deity of what 
animistic religion of Japan? 
ANSWER:  
Shinto 
ism 
034-10-14-01107 
8. In one work by this author, the prisoner Sologdin attempts to trade his “voice encoder” for his freedom. In 
another of this man's novels, Pavel Rusanov, the government informer with a large tumor on his neck, is one 
of the figures that Oleg Kostoglov meets at the hospital. This author of  
First Circle 
 and  
The Cancer Ward 
also wrote a work that begins with a trumpet signaling the awakening of the title character, who lives in a 
gulag labor camp. For 10 points, name this Soviet author who emigrated to the U.S. and wrote  
One Day in 
the Life of Ivan Denisovich 
. 
ANSWER: Aleksandr Isayevich  
Solzhenitsyn 
034-10-14-01108 
9. This composer parodied Clementi's didactic piano books in \"Doctor Gradus ad Parnassum,\" part of a suite 
with movements like \"Jimbo's Lullaby\" and \"Golliwogg's Cakewalk.\" Another work by this composer of  
Children's Corner 
 was inspired by a Paul Verlaine poem. This composer wrote \"The Play of the Waves\" in 
his  
La Mer 
. For 10 points, name this Impressionist composer of the  
Suite Bergamasque 
, which includes the 
\"Clair de lune.\" 
ANSWER: Claude  
Debussy 
032-10-14-01109 
10. This man began his career in the political machine of Thomas Pendergast. This president decried the 
\"Do-Nothing Congress.\" This man vetoed the Taft-Hartley labor bill. George Kennan and Dean Acheson 
were largely responsible for creating a policy named for this man. That doctrine named for this man adopted 
a method of containment for fighting communist expansion. This President defeated Thomas Dewey to win 
a second term. For 10 points, name this Democrat who succeeded FDR as president. 
ANSWER: Harry S  
Truman 
028-10-14-01110 
11. The conservation of this quantity is due to the translational invariance of the Lagrangian, according to 
Noether's theorem. The De Broglie wavelength of a particle is equal to Planck's constant divided by this 
quantity for the particle. Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle was originally given in terms of errors in 
position and this quantity. This quantity is conserved in both inelastic and elastic collisions, and the change 
in this quantity is equal to force times time, also known as impulse. For 10 points, name this quantity 
symbolized  , equal to mass times velocity. 
p 
ANSWER: linear  
momentum 
028-10-14-01111 
12. After the death of Meleager, this figure transformed his sisters into guinea hens. This deity accidentally 
killed the nymph Callisto after she had been turned into a bear. This deity was caught bathing and turned her 
gawker, Actaeon, into a hound. With her brother, this goddess killed the children of Niobe for offending this 
goddess's mother, Leto. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of the moon and the hunt, the twin sister of 
Apollo. 
ANSWER:  
Artemis 
005-10-14-01112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  2 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. New species that appeared during this period include coralline algae and the invertebrate rudists and 
belemnites. The Morrison Formation was formed during it as a remnant of the Sundance Sea, while other 
geographic developments include the formation of the Gulf of Mexico and the splitting of Pangaea into 
Laurasia and Gondwana. Named after the Swiss mountain range in which it was originally formulated by 
Abraham Werner, this is, for 10 points, which middle period of the Mesozoic Era found between the Triassic 
and the Cretaceous? 
ANSWER:  
Jurassic 
 Period 
040-10-14-01113 
14. Addo Elephant National Park is located near one city in this nation, and another city includes the tourist 
district known as the Golden Mile. Those cities in this nation are Port Elizabeth and Durban. This nation is 
home to the Drakensberg Mountains and the Great Escarpment, and this nation completely surrounds the 
Kingdom of Lesotho. For 10 points, name this nation whose judicial capital is in Bloemfontein and whose 
legislative capital is in Cape Town. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
South Africa 
030-10-14-01114 
15. The application of ATP can induce this process in cyanobacteria (\"sigh\"-ANN-oh-back-TEER-ee-uh), 
and the suprachiasmatic (SOOP-ruh-ky-az-MAT-ic) nuclei controls this entity in mammals. It is often 
displayed in plants by the movement of leaves in relation to the sun. Studies have shown that mammals can 
maintain one of these entities despite the absence of usual cues like light and darkness. For 10 points, name 
this cycle of about 24 hours that governs organisms' activities and is often called the \"biological clock.\" 
ANSWER:  
circadian 
 rhythm 
032-10-14-01115 
16. Jacobus Arminius led a group who deviated from the teachings of this man known as the Remonstrants. 
This man studied with Martin Bucer during a period where he took refuge in Strasbourg. This man was 
responsible for the burning at the stake of Michael Servetus. This leader worked closely with Guillame Farel 
(gee-OHME fah-REHL). This man laid out his beliefs in his  
Institutes of the Christian Religion 
. This 
religious leader's doctrine of the elect implied a kind of predestination. For 10 points, name this Geneva 
preacher integral to the Protestant Reformation. 
ANSWER: John  
Calvin 
028-10-14-01116 
17. In one song by this group, the male vocalist declares \"you know you got me by a string, baby,\" and in 
another, the singer describes how the titular objects \"drive these brothers crazy.\" This group's album  
Monkey 
Business 
 included \"Don't Phunk with my Heart.\" A recent song by this group features the line \"you're so 
2000 and late.\" Another of their songs requests \"some guidance from above\" before asking the titular 
question. For 10 points, name this hip-hop group whose members include will.i.am and Fergie, known for 
songs such as \"Boom Boom Pow,\" \"My Humps,\" and \"Where is the Love?\" 
ANSWER:  
Black Eyed Peas 
038-10-14-01117 
18. A political cartoon about this man showed him on a pyramid of skulls. This President's cabinet was 
dominated by his Secretary of State, who negotiated a treaty with the British diplomat Henry Bulwer 
(BULL-wur), named John M. Clayton. This man died of cholera after eating strawberries and milk and was 
succeeded by his Vice-President, Millard (MILL-urd) Fillmore. Earlier, this President won fame by winning 
the Battle of Buena Vista (BWAYN-uh VEE-stuh) against Santa Anna. For 10 points, name this President, 
nicknamed \"Ol' Rough and Ready\", who won the Election of 1848. 
ANSWER: Zachary  
Taylor 
021-10-14-01118 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  3 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. Cadherins (cad-HERE-inz) and integrins (IN-tuh-grinz) are among the many proteins that span this 
structure, and flippases (FLIP-ay-suhz) aid molecule movement in it. The fluid mosaic model of this 
structure states that it is composed of structures like lipid rafts and protein complexes floating freely in a 
phospholipid bilayer (FOSS-fo-LIP-id BY-lay-ur). Ion channels aid ion transport through this entity to enter 
or exit the cell. For 10 points, name this barrier that separates a cell from the outside environment. 
ANSWER: cell  
membrane 
032-10-14-01119 
20. This man married the daughter of the Lombard king Desiderius, though he later conquered the Lombard 
kingdom. This man's father had served as Mayor of the Palace before usurping Childeric III, the last 
Merovingian king. The Basques defeated this man's rearguard at the Battle of Roncevaux (ron-seh-VOH) 
Pass, inspiring the later  
Song of Roland 
. This man was succeeded by his son Louis the Pius. This man's 
father Pippin the Short established the Carolingian dynasty. For 10 points, name this Frankish king crowned 
as Holy Roman Emperor on Christmas Day in 800. 
ANSWER:  
Charlemagne 
 [or  
Carolus Magnus 
; or  
Charles 
 the  
Great 
; prompt on  
Charles 
; prompt on  
Carolus 
] 
028-10-14-01120 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  4 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 1 
Second Period, 10 Tossups and 4 Bonuses 
1. One deity from this country had a cult centered in Arsinoe and caught the four sons of another god in a net 
after they emerged from a lotus. In addition to Sobek, another goddess from this country was tricked into 
drinking blood colored beer while disguised as Sekhmet. That goddess, Hathor, was sometimes depicted as a 
cow. An ancient culture in this country believed that the heart of the deceased was weighed against the 
feather of Ma'at. For 10 points, an ancient culture in what modern-day country believed that the 
jackal-headed Anubis invented the process of making mummies? 
ANSWER:  
Egypt 
005-10-14-01121 
2. The fourth book of this work is entitled \"Of Systems of Political Economy,\" and argues against 
mercantilism. Its first section uses a pin factory to illustrate the concept of the division of labor. This work 
also introduced the concept that individuals pursuing their own interests promote the good of the market, 
which he called the \"invisible hand.\" For 10 points, name this work published in 1776 by the economist 
Adam Smith. 
ANSWER: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the  
Wealth of Nations 
024-10-14-01122 
3. This structure features a \"climbing fiber\" system originating from its contralateral inferior olive. This 
structure's flocculonodular (FLOCK-you-lo-NOD-you-luhr) lobe is connected by Purkinje neurons to its 
vestibular (ves-TIB-you-luhr) nuclei. Though it is not the cerebrum, this structure's cortex is involved in 
motor learning. For 10 points, name this division of the brain that governs coordination and motor control, 
whose name means \"little brain.\" 
ANSWER:  
cerebellum 
022-10-14-01123 
4. Two characters in this novel are members of the \"bigguns\" and are collectively known as \"Samneric.\" One 
character in this novel dies after struck by a boulder thrown by Roger. Only the person holding a conch shell 
is allowed to speak at the assembly in this novel, in which Ralph assumes command and leads in the 
construction of huts but is later challenged by Jack. For 10 points, name this William Golding novel about 
English school boys stranded on an island who offer up a pig's head to a mysterious \"beast.\" 
ANSWER:  
Lord of the Flies 
045-10-14-01124 
5. In one work by this author, the Pococks comes to Paris when Chad chooses to remain with Madame 
Vionnet rather than return to New England. Lambert Strether is one of the title character of this author's  
The 
Ambassadors 
. Mrs. Grose is a housekeeper of an estate at Bly in another work by this author, in which 
ghosts named Peter Quint and Miss Jessel terrorize the children Miles and Flora. For 10 points, name this 
author who created Isabel Archer and wrote “The Turn of the Screw”? 
ANSWER: Henry  
James 
034-10-14-01125 
6. Major Harry Rathbone was unable to stop this event. Dr. Samuel Mudd was executed for setting a cast on 
the broken leg of one figure who participated in this event. At the same time as this event was occurring, 
Lewis Powell was attempting to kill William H. Seward. A man who was later shot in a burning barn in 
Northern Virginia yelled \"sic semper tyrannis\" before perpetrating this act. For 10 points, name this event in 
Ford's Theater, where the sixteenth President of the United States was shot by John Wilkes Booth. 
ANSWER: the  
assassination 
 of Abraham  
Lincoln 
 [accept obvious equivalents] 
021-10-14-01126 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  5 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. The narrator of one of this author’s poems observes “Blue--blue--as if that sky let fall, a flower from its 
cerulean wall.”In another work, this author of “To the Fringed Gentian” notes that the title figure should 
soon depart from his heart, even though “the abyss of heaven has swallowed up” its form. This poet also 
wrote than one should approach the grave like a person who “lies down to pleasant dreams” in his 
meditation on death, \"Thanatopsis.\" For 10 points, name this early American poet of \"To a Waterfowl.\" 
ANSWER: William Cullen  
Bryant 
034-10-14-01127 
8. The generating function for these numbers is \"z over the quantity 1 minus z minus z squared.\" The ratio 
between successive elements in this sequence converges to a continued fraction with all ones, which is equal 
to the golden ratio. The shallow diagonals of Pascal's triangle sum to these numbers, and these numbers were 
first proposed in a problem involving reproducing rabbits. For 10 points, name this sequence beginning 
\"one, one, two, three, five,\" where each element is the sum of the previous two elements. 
ANSWER:  
Fibonacci 
 numbers or sequence 
028-10-14-01128 
9. This man wrote a story in which a child was told by an angel she would dance until she became a skeleton 
due to her wearing the title footwear. In addition to \"The Red Shoes,\" one of this man's works describes 
Gerda's attempts to save Little Kay after a piece of the Mirror of the Devil was lodged in his eye. That work 
is \"The Snow Queen.\" For 10 points, name this Danish author of children's stories such as \"The Emperor's 
New Clothes\" and \"The Little Mermaid.\" 
ANSWER: Hans Christian  
Andersen 
030-10-14-01129 
10. This author created his own mythology that includes Orc, the creative passion, and Urizen, the tradition. 
This author wrote two collections of poetry which both include poems titled \"Divine Image\" and \"The 
Chimney Sweeper.\" He wrote another poem that asks \"What immortal hand or eye, could frame thy fearful 
symmetry!\" of a creature \"burning bright in the forests of the night.\" For 10 points, name this author who 
wrote  
Songs of Innocence and Experience 
, a collection that contains his poems \"The Lamb\" and \"The 
Tyger.\" 
ANSWER: William  
Blake 
034-10-14-01130 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  6 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
1. The protagonist of this book, Saleem Sinai, is a telepath with a nose that constantly runs. 
[5] Name this novel about a group of people born at the instant of India's independence. 
ANSWER:  
Midnight's Children 
[10] This author of  
Midnight's Children 
 also wrote a controversial novel based on the life of Muhammed,  
The Satanic Verses 
. 
ANSWER: Salman  
Rushdie 
[15] Another Rushdie novel is titled after Shalimar, a person of this profession. Other literary holders of this 
job include Hans Schnier in a Heinrich Boll novel and the stock \"arlecchino\" character in the  
commedia dell 
arte. 
ANSWER:  
clown 
s 
[20] Though this Rushdie novel takes place in contemporary Mumbai, India, it is titled for a historical 
legend about the Spanish expulsion of King Boabdil from Granada in 1492. 
ANSWER:  
The  Moor's Last Sigh 
032-10-14-01101 
2. Identify these people and entities involved in translating the Bible. 
[5] This English king, the first ruler of the Stuart dynasty, famously organized a team that made the first 
official translation of the Bible into English 
ANSWER:  
James I 
 [prompt on  
James 
] 
[10] The Catholic Church long opposed translating the Bible into non-Latin languages, but then officially 
endorsed the practice at this 1960s church council that reformed the Catholic church. 
ANSWER:  
Second Vatican 
 Council [or  
Vatican II 
] 
[15] This Czech theologian supported religious reforms, such as translating the Bible into vernacular 
languages, during the 1400s. He was burned at the stake at the Council of Constance. 
ANSWER: Jan  
Hus 
[20] The first verses of the Bible to be printed in English were created by this man, who was the first retailer 
of printed English books and exercised a great influence over the development of the early modern language. 
ANSWER: William  
Caxton 
021-10-14-01102 
3. They depend only on the number of solute particles in a solution. 
[5] Name these properties of solutions that include freezing point depression and boiling point elevation. 
ANSWER:  
colligative 
 properties 
[10] This colligative property is the gradient that causes hydrostatic pressure across a semipermeable 
membrane. 
ANSWER:  
osmotic pressure 
[15] This quantity represents the number of moles of solute per mole of solid dissolved in a solution. 
ANSWER:  
van't Hoff 
 factor 
[20] An equation named for van't Hoff yields the ratio of changes of equilibrium constant to temperature as 
proportional to a change in this quantity. 
ANSWER:  
enthalpy 
032-10-14-01103 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  7 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. The Descamisados, who followed Juan Peron, were an important political force in this nation in the 
1940s; later, it attempted to seize the Falkland Islands from Britain. 
[5] Name this nation, which was led by Carlos Menem from 1989 to 1999. 
ANSWER:  
Argentina 
 [or  
Argentine 
 Republic; or República  
Argentina 
] 
[10] This wife of Juan Peron took over for him following his 1974 death, but this woman was then deposed 
in a military coup in 1976. She was arrested in Spain in 2006 and charged with the disappearance of activist 
Hector Gallego in 1976. 
ANSWER:  sabel Peron [do not accept Eva or Evita Peron] 
I 
[15] The Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo have demanded to know the whereabouts of family members who 
were victims of this domestic conflict of 1976 to 1983, in which Argentina's military government 
disappeared thousands of dissidents and civilians. 
ANSWER:  
Dirty War 
 [or  
Guerra Sucia 
] 
[20] This son of Italian immigrants to Argentina was the head of the military government during the 
invasion of the Falklands, but his political career ended as the standoff with Britain turned disastrous. 
ANSWER: Leopoldo  
Galtieri 
030-10-14-01104 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  8 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 1 
Four 10-Part Team Rounds 
THE LETTER B 
DOCTORS 
THE LETTER \"A\" 
RUSSIA 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  9 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE LETTER B 
[10] This theory is opposed to steady state and suggests that the universe suddenly expanded from a dense 
point over ten million years ago. 
ANSWER:  
Big Bang Theory 
[10] This type of terrain is composed of sedimentary rock that has been heavily eroded and names a land 
formation and national park in western South Dakota. 
ANSWER:  
badlands 
[10] This 17th century Japanese poet was a master of the Haiku who wrote about his travels in  
Narrow Road 
to the Deep North 
. 
ANSWER: Matsuo  
Basho 
[10] This CIA backed 1961 invasion of Cuba by exiled citizens was an early blot on the Kennedy 
administration. 
ANSWER:  
Bay of Pigs 
[10] This father of Zetes and Calais was the Greek god of the north wind. 
ANSWER:  
Boreas 
[10] This gas law states that at a fixed temperature, pressure and volume are inversely proportional. 
ANSWER:  
Boyle’s 
 Law 
[10] This German word for a ‘novel of education’ refers to coming of age works like Goethe’s  
Wilhelm 
Meister 
 series. 
ANSWER:  
 Bildungsroman 
[10] In his  
The Tales of Hoffmann 
, Jacques Offenbach included one of these folk songs traditionally sung by 
the gondoliers of Venice. 
ANSWER:  
Barcarolles 
[10] Participants in this coming of age ritual for Jewish males are required to memorize portions of the 
Torah. 
ANSWER:  
Bar Mitzvah 
[10] This word comes from the German for “lightning war” and is often used to describe the rapid advance 
of the German army during World War II. 
ANSWER:  
Blitzkrieg 
015-10-14-0110-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  10 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
DOCTORS 
[10] This Sinclair Lewis novel describes the life of an idealistic doctor named Martin. 
ANSWER:  
Arrowsmith 
[10] H.G. Wells wrote about this fictional doctor’s island, where he performs sinister genetic experiments. 
ANSWER: Doctor  
Moreau 
[10] This medical condition occurs when a female is born without a X chromosome, resulting in a broad 
chest, obesity, and poor breast development. 
ANSWER:  
Turner 
 Syndrome [or  
Ullrich-Turner 
 Syndrome] 
[10] Doctors occasionally use this chemical compound as an anesthetic when performing surgery. It is also 
known as “laughing gas.” 
ANSWER:  
Nitrous Oxide 
 [or  
N2O 
] 
[10] This woman worked as a Civil War nurse and founded the American Red Cross. 
ANSWER: Clara  
Booth 
[10] This philosopher was known as Doctor Angelicus and wrote the book  
Summa Theologica 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Aquinas 
[10] A doctor wouldn’t help the subject in this painter’s work  
Burial of Count Orgaz 
. He also painted a 
famous view of Toledo. 
ANSWER:  
El Greco 
 [or Domenikos  
Theotokopoulos 
] 
[10] This Greek god was associated with healing. He had an oracle at Delphi and had a son named 
Asclepius. 
ANSWER:  
Apollo 
[10] Fictional doctor Addison Montgomery appears in this TV show, a spin-off of  
Grey’s Anatomy 
. 
ANSWER:  
Private Practice 
[10] Real-life doctors can be found at this private research clinic, whose most famous location is in 
Rochester, Minnesota. 
ANSWER:  
Mayo 
 Clinic 
052-10-14-0110-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  11 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
THE LETTER \"A\" 
[10] This grey-eyed Greek goddess of war and wisdom was born from Zeus’s head. 
ANSWER:  
Athena 
[10] This group of elements has atomic numbers from 90 to 103 and is found below Lanthanides on the 
periodic table. 
ANSWER:  
Actinides 
[10] This region of southern Spain is split by the Guadalquivir River and has its capital at Seville. 
ANSWER:  
 Andalusia 
[10] This group of 20th century British authors expressed disillusionment with 1950s British society and 
included John Osborne and Arnold Wesker. 
ANSWER:  
Angry Young Men 
[10] This son of Philip II of Macedon won the battles of Hydaspes and Issus and defeated Darius III at 
Gaugamela. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander 
 the Great 
[10] This 2009 film featured Ewan McGregor as the Vatican Camerlengo and was a sequel to  
The Da Vinci 
Code 
. 
ANSWER:  
Angels and Demons 
[10] This nitrogenous base is a purine that compliments thymine in DNA and uracil in RNA. 
ANSWER:  
Adenine 
[10] This Ayn Rand novel features the railroad magnate Dagny Taggart and the mysterious John Galt. 
ANSWER:  
Atlas Shrugged 
[10] This 1777 document declared that “the Union shall be perpetual” and created a government that passed 
the Northwest Ordinance, but was replaced by the US Constitution in 1787. 
ANSWER:  
Articles of Confederation 
[10] The name for this art movement was coined by Robert Coates and it included action painter Jackson 
Pollack and Dutch painter Wassily Kandinsky. 
ANSWER:  
Abstract Expressionism 
015-10-14-0110-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  12 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
RUSSIA 
[10] Starting with Michael, this family provided Russia's tsars. 
ANSWER: the  
Romanov 
s 
[10] The Treaty of Portsmouth ended a war between Russia and this country, which won the Battle of 
Tsushima Straits. 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nippon 
] 
[10] This Hungarian-born author fictionalized Josef Stalin as \"Number One\" in his novel  
Darkness at Noon 
. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Koestler 
[10] This Czech-born British author told of Lenin's desire to return to Russia as a sideplot in his  
Travesties 
, 
and also wrote the play  
Rosencranz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
. 
ANSWER: Tom  
Stoppard 
 [or Tomas  
Straussler 
] 
[10] This Russian musician composed the  
Firebird 
 suite and the ballet  
Rite of Spring 
. 
ANSWER: Igor Fyodorovich  
Stravinsky 
[10] Stalin employed this Soviet biologist, who rejected Mendelian genetics. 
ANSWER: Trofim Denisovich  
Lysenko 
[10] Soviet scientists Ginzburg and Landau created a namesake theory that models this behavior, when 
materials exhibit no resistance to electrical flow. 
ANSWER:  
superconductivity 
[10] The first Metropolitan bishop of this city was Cyril II, and others have included Philaret. 
ANSWER:  
Moscow 
[10] The Neva river flows from this lake to the Gulf of Finland at St. Petersburg. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Ladoga 
[10] The Slutsky equation relates changes in the Hicksian and Marshallian forms of what economic concept, 
often contrasted with supply? 
ANSWER:  
demand 
026-10-14-0110-3 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  13 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 1 
12 20-Point Tossups 
1. This process was first carried out at a BASF plant in Oppau (OP-pow). A temperature and pressure of 800 
kelvin and 250 atm (A-T-M) are necessary for this reaction, which formerly used a uranium catalyst but 
today much more commonly uses enriched magnetite. This process also commonly involves a raw product 
called synthesis gas, and it is used to create products like fertilizer. For 20 points, identify this chemical 
procedure that produces ammonia. 
ANSWER:  
Haber 
-Bosch process 
032-10-14-01101 
2. This vessel was commanded by Charles Sigsbee. One theory regarding this vessel's most famous event 
considers actions in Bunker A16. This ship was the subject of Hyman Rickover's 1976 investigation that 
echoed the findings of Del Peral and De Salas that a coal bunker caused its demise. A call to \"remember\" 
this vessel was rhymed with \"To hell with Spain!\" in the \"yellow\" press following its destruction. For 20 
points, name this ship that exploded in Havana harbor in 1898, sparking the Spanish-American War. 
ANSWER: the USS  
Maine 
 [prompt on  
ACR-1 
] 
026-10-14-01102 
3. This man's wife Dia was the mother of Pirithous (pie-RITH-o-US), though legends differ whether this 
man or Zeus was the father. This man's horses were seized after he failed to keep his promise of a gift to his 
wife's father Eioneus, and this man became the first mortal to murder a family member when he cast Eioneus 
into a pit. This man became father of the Centaurs after making love to the cloud Nephele, which this figure 
thought was Hera. For 20 points, name this man who was punished by Zeus by being bound to a fiery wheel 
for eternity. 
ANSWER:  
Ixion 
030-10-14-01103 
4. This man wrote about an enchanted guitar in his novel  
Reservation Blues 
. \"A Drug Called Tradition\" is 
one of a collection of 21 stories set on a Spokane reservation,  
The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in 
Heaven 
. Many of this man's works include members of the Spokane tribe, like the character Thomas 
Builds-the-Fire. For 20 points, name this Native American author of  
The Absolute True Diary of a Part-Time 
Indian 
. 
ANSWER: Sherman  
Alexie 
032-10-14-01104 
5. Lithotripsy is the method of choice for removing these objects, which contain small amounts of 
mucoprotein (MEW-ko-pro-teen). The largest of them are sometimes known as \"staghorn\" ones. About 
fifteen percent of them are composed of magnesium ammonium phosphate, but they are most commonly 
composed of calcium oxylate (OCKZ-uh-late) and calcium phosphate. They are most noticeable when they 
end up in the ureter, causing back and groin pain as they \"pass.\" For 20 points, name these hard objects. 
ANSWER:  
kidney stone 
s 
003-10-14-01105 
6. A lamp atop a pedestal can be found near the center of this painting, in which three figures are ascending 
a staircase in the background. In this work, the inscription \"L.D.\" is marked on a bench, on which sits a 
follower of the title figure. Another robed follower in this painting is placing his hand on the title figure's 
knee as he prepares to down the deadly contents of a cup. For 20 points, name this Jacques-Louis David 
painting in which the title philosopher is pointing his finger upward as he prepares to drink hemlock. 
ANSWER:  
The  Death of Socrates 
030-10-14-01106 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  14 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. This author used a line from Tennyson’s “Tithonous” to title his novel in which Dr. Obispo searches for 
immortality for the Hollywood millionaire Jo Stoyte. In another novel by this author, Helmoltz Watson 
chooses to be exiled to the Falkland Islands, and Lenina Crowne repulses a man born in Malpais by offering 
to have sex with him. In that novel by this author, Mustapha Mond explains how the World State offers its 
members pure happiness. For 20 points, name this British author who wrote a dystopian novel about Bernard 
Marx and John the Savage. 
ANSWER: Aldous Leonard  
Huxley 
034-10-14-01107 
8. This poet noted that \"the sky will cave in on\" \"the man whose soul is flat\" in a poem that begins \"All I 
could see from where I stood/ Was three long mountains and a wood,\" \"Renascence.\" In another of this 
person's poems, the speaker's \"candle burns at both ends\" and \"gives a lovely light,\" although it \"will not last 
the night.\" For 20 points, name this female American poet who included \"First Fig\" in her book  
A Few Figs 
From Thistles 
. 
ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent  
Millay 
032-10-14-01108 
9. Ralph Bagnold's work on the formation of these entities, though written in 1941, is still mostly accurate. 
Barchans (BAR-chanz) are formed where there is little of their namesake substance, which is made up of 
particles of diameter between 0.1 and 1.6 millimeters. The most common type of these objects is the 
crescentic type, which are wider than they are long. Star ones are found in the Namib and Sahara Deserts. 
For 20 points, name these massive hills composed of a namesake material. 
ANSWER: sand  
dune 
s 
003-10-14-01109 
10. This city is home to a self-proclaimed seven-star hotel. This city is ruled by the Maktoum family, and the 
man-made Palm and World Islands are found off the coast of this city. The government of this city has been 
criticized due to its lax standards for treatment of this city's large guest worker population. In 2006, a 
company owned by the government of this city controversially attempted to purchase the contracts to 
operate six United States seaports. For 20 points, name this home of the world's tallest building and largest 
city in the United Arab Emirates. 
ANSWER:  
Dubai 
 [or  
Dubayy 
] 
038-10-14-01110 
11. The gamoroi (gah-mo-ROI) government in this polity was broken by the defeat of this city by 
Hippocrates of Gela. Timoleon's (tih-MOH-lee-ONZ) oligarchy was overthrown by Agathocles here in 317 
BCE. This city was defended against the Carthaginians by Dionysius I. It was settled by the Corinthian 
aristocrat Archias in 734 BCE, and this city's independence declined under the rule of Hieron (HIE-ron) II. 
For 20 points, name this Sicilian city that was defended against the Romans by the war machines of 
Archimedes. 
ANSWER:  
Syracuse 
 [or  
Siracusa 
] 
030-10-14-01111 
12. This man set translations of J.P. Jacobsen poems like \"The Song of the Wood Dove\" in his  
Gurreleider 
. 
[gur-uh-LEED-ur] The \"Dance Around the Golden Calf\" is one of the songs in his opera  
Moses and Aron 
. 
This man composed a work based on a Richard Dehmel poem about a woman's confession to her lover that 
she is carrying the child of another man,  
Transfigured Night 
. This man also composed  
Pierrot Lunaire 
. 
[peer-OH loo-NAIR] For 20 points, name this composer who developed atonality and serialism, or the 
twelve-tone method. 
ANSWER: Arnold  
Schoenberg 
030-10-14-01112 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  15 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Colonia Tournament 
Round 1 
Tiebreakers 
1. This work discusses a group stranded on an island and forced to form a government. This work 
recommends a ceremony in which a crown is used to demonstrate that \"law is king.\" Titled by Benjamin 
Rush, this work mentions the absurdity of an island ruling a continent. This work suggests that government 
is a \"necessary evil.\" Written by the author of  
The Rights of Man 
, for 10 points, name this pamphlet written 
in 1776 by Thomas Paine. 
ANSWER:  
Common Sense 
038-10-14-01131 
2. This composer wrote his  
Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso 
 for violinist and orchestra. A massive fugue 
and forte C major chord for the titular instrument introduce this man's third symphony. Another work by this 
composer features a solo violin with its E string tuned down a half-step, and that piece's main theme is 
quoted in the \"Fossils\" movement of a piece that also contains movements like \"Personages with Long Ears\" 
and \"The Swan.\" For 10 points, name this French composer of  
Danse Macabre 
 and  
Carnival of the Animals 
. 
ANSWER: Camille  
Saint-Saens 
032-10-14-01132 
3. Items that two characters in this book discover in a knot in a tree include figurines carved in soap and mint 
gum. One character is convicted of rape despite the fact that a withered arm proves he could not have 
committed the crime, and that man, Tom, is defended by the protagonist's father. The book's title action is 
declared to be a sin by that man, Atticus. For 10 points, name this book about Scout Finch, a novel by 
Harper Lee. 
ANSWER:  
To Kill A Mockingbird 
032-10-14-01133 
Colonia Tournament     Round 1     Page  16 of 16 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
