NASAT 2013 
Round 20 
Tossups 
1. The protagonist of one of this author's novels was forced to read the  
Code of Manu 
 in his youth. He 
created a character who wishes to pick flowers for a dead black dog found at the top of a waterfall. That 
character eventually retires to Gesshu Temple, while the protagonist goes to Chakri Palace to visit a Thai 
princess. In one of his works, Ying Chan and the nationalist Isao Iinuma are thought to be reincarnations of 
the protagonist's friend Kiyoaki Matsugae. Those aforementioned characters appear in a series including  
Runaway Horses 
 and  
Spring Snow. 
 For 10 points, name this Japanese author of a tetralogy of novels about 
Shigekuni Honda,  
The Sea of Fertility. 
ANSWER: Yukio  
Mishima 
192-13-83-20101 
2. Two answers required. One of these people pees through the middle of a myrtle wreath held up by the 
other in a bizarre painting by Lorenzo Lotto. One of them, carrying a honeycomb, is covered in bees in a 
painting of these people by Cranach the Elder. A mischievous boy prepares to throw pink flowers over 
these two people as they make out and fondle in a painting whose background features a creepy little girl 
with lion's legs and a snake's tail. The elder of these people looks into a pink silk-draped mirror held up by 
the other in a Diego Velazquez painting now in Rokeby Park. For 10 points, name this mother-son pair 
depicted by Agnolo Bronzino along with Folly and Time. 
ANSWER:  
Venus 
 and  
Cupid 
 [or  
Aphrodite 
 and  
Eros 
] 
080-13-83-20102 
3. Bipolarons are used to explain the electrical properties of conducting varieties of these substances. An 
aquamelt is this type of compound that can lose water and solidify in response to stress from the 
environment. Above one phase transition temperature but below the melting point, these substances can 
crystallize into spherulites. Side chains on these compounds are known as pendant groups, and their 
arrangement determines their tacticity. Extending these compounds can be done through step-growth or 
chain-growth manners. Synthetic examples of these compounds include nylon and polystyrene. For 10 
points, name these long compounds formed from the linkage of many monomers. 
ANSWER:  
polymer 
s 
140-13-83-20103 
4. One man who held this profession based many of his ideas on the principle of socialitas and became 
royal historiographer in Sweden, where his reputation was defended against attacks by Leibniz. In England, 
this profession arose out of Henry II's 1166 Assize of Clarendon. Another man primarily of this profession 
wrote  
De Indis 
, out of which came his  
Mare Liberum 
, but his best known work was written during Spanish 
occupation of his country during the Eighty Years War'. \"On the Duty of Man and Citizen\" was written by 
Samuel von Pufendorf, one of these men. For 10 points, name this profession held by an advocate of the 
freedom of the seas and just war, Hugo Grotius. 
ANSWER:  
jurist 
s [or  
lawyer 
s; or answers suggesting  
philosophers of law 
; prompt on  
philosopher 
s] 
020-13-83-20104 
NASAT 2013     20     Page  1 of 11 
5. The composer of this piece acknowledged the musician Sebastien Yradier for providing the melody, 
which he had mistakenly believed had come from a folk song. This piece draws a comparison to a \"princess 
of Bohemia,\" which has \"never, never known the law.\" The melody of this piece, which initially proceeds 
as a descending chromatic line of four-bar phrases, inverts from a major to a minor triad as the chorus 
shouts \"Watch out!\" The mezzo-soprano singer of this piece reaches a fifth octave F-sharp and claims to 
prefer a silent rather than a talkative man. This piece is about a \"gypsy's child,\" a \"rebellious bird that none 
can tame.\" For 10 points, name this song about the nature of love, a first act aria from  
Carmen 
. 
ANSWER: \" 
Habanera 
\" [accept \"L' 
amour est un oiseau rebelle 
\" and \" 
Love is a rebellious bird 
\" before 
\"rebellious\" is read; prompt on  
Carmen 
] 
020-13-83-20105 
6. In 1970, this country was the landing site of three international airplanes hijacked by the PFLP, which 
were blown up at a deserted airstrip called Dawson's Field. Soldiers from this country formed the Arab 
Legion, a force under the command of British officer John Glubb. A ruler of this country had to ask Israel 
and the United States for assistance against Syria during Black September, in which it expelled its 
Palestinian refugees. In the Six-Day War, this country lost East Jerusalem and the West Bank to Israel. For 
10 points, name this Arab country whose Hashemite kings have included Hussein and Abdullah II. 
ANSWER: Hashemite Kingdom of  
Jordan 
 [or Al Mamlakah  
al Urdun 
iyah al Hashimiyah] 
080-13-83-20106 
7. This philosopher used the term \"natality\" to refer to the role of birth as a rich metaphor for political 
change. In one essay, this philosopher explained Melville's  
Billy Budd 
 as an allegory of the French 
Revolution, and concluded that idealistic violence and \"absolute goodness\" are as threatening as absolute 
evil. This thinker analyzes de Gobineau and other pioneers of \"race-thinking\" as precursors to imperialism 
in the middle section of a book that examines the commonalities between Germany and the Soviet Union in 
the 1930s. She spent four days attending the trial of a man in a glass box to write another book about the 
\"banality of evil.\" For 10 points, name this philosopher who wrote  
The Origins of Totalitarianism 
 and  
Eichmann in Jerusalem. 
ANSWER: Hannah  
Arendt 
019-13-83-20107 
8. One poem in this collection asks, “What use is my sense of humor?” before concluding, “We are all 
old-timers, each of us holds a locked razor.” The speaker of another poem in this collection notes, “All 
night I’ve held your hand” before describing how “your old-fashioned tirade…breaks like the Atlantic 
Ocean on my head.” The speaker climactically hears his “ill-spirit sob in each blood cell” in another poem 
in this collection also containing “Man and Wife.” By dealing with topics such as the author’s mental 
illness, this collection launched the Confessional poetry movement. For 10 points, name this collection 
including “Skunk Hour,” a major work of Robert Lowell. 
ANSWER:  
Life Studies 
014-13-83-20108 
9. For a spin glass, the natural log of this function can be computed using the replica trick. This value is 
expanded into a power series in the Mayer cluster expansion. For a gas of N identical particles, this value is 
equal to 1 over the quantity N factorial times h to the 3N all times an integral. Taking the derivative of the 
log of this quantity with respect to the thermodynamic beta can be used to prove the result that each degree 
of freedom of a system contributes the same amount of energy to a system. This quantity is the sum over all 
of the Boltzmann factors of a system, and its natural log is multiplied by negative kT to give the Helmholtz 
free energy. For 10 points, name this value important in describing canonical ensembles in statistical 
mechanics, symbolized Z. 
ANSWER:  
partition function 
 [accept   before mention] 
Z 
048-13-83-20109 
NASAT 2013     20     Page  2 of 11 
10. The speaker of this poem invokes “Sad Patience, too near neighbor to Despair” in describing how “we 
others pine, and wish the long unhappy dream would end, and waive all claim to bliss.” The speaker of this 
poem says, “Thou hadst one aim, one business, one desire: else wert thou long since numbered with the 
dead,” in reference to the title character, who averts “this strange disease of modern life” and perpetually 
waits for “the spark from Heaven.” A passage in “Glanvil’s book” describes the title student of this poem, 
who leaves Oxford to join a band of Roma. For 10 points, name this poem by Matthew Arnold. 
ANSWER: “The  
Scholar-Gipsy 
” 
014-13-83-20110 
11. One person currently serving in this position offered an amendment to the 2013 omnibus immigration 
bill allowing for undocumented immigrants to be employed only as domestic servants. That person in this 
position is a cousin of Democrats Mark and Tom Udall. The senior holder of this position has twice 
defeated Scott Howell for re-election, and the junior holder of this position won a primary against 
incumbent Bob Bennett in 2010. The senior holder of this position alternated control of the Judiciary 
Committee several times with Patrick Leahy and has a side career as a songwriter. For 10 points, name this 
office, currently held by Republicans Mike Lee and Orrin Hatch. 
ANSWER: United States  
Senator 
 from  
Utah 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
019-13-83-20111 
12. One composer revisited music from his student days to write two of these pieces \"From Old 
Notebooks\" and created three dissonant ones to express his true feelings about writing a cantata celebrating 
Stalin's birthday. Another of these pieces pioneered the double-function form and condensed four 
movements into one continuous one. Besides those \"War\" ones by Prokofiev and Liszt's only one in B 
minor, one of them includes an unusual, technically demanding Baroque contrapuntal three voice fugue. 
Another of these works, styled \"in the manner of a fantasy,\" was named for its similarity to a scene upon 
Lake Lucerne. For 10 points, name these pieces, including Beethoven's  
Hammerklavier 
 and  
Moonlight 
, 
written for a solo keyboard instrument. 
ANSWER:  
piano sonata 
s [prompt on  
sonata 
s] 
020-13-83-20112 
13. With a German, this man names a method in which classical analysis is performed then an orbit 
constrained to an integral number of de Broglie wavelengths to avoid destructive interference. One result of 
this physicist, that was rediscovered by van Leeuwen, states that classical magnetism does not exist in 
thermal equilibrium. With Wolfgang Pauli, this scientist developed the Aufbau principle. This man 
introduced complementarity and proposed that angular momentum was quantized, allowing him to derive a 
theoretical backing for the Rydberg Formula. For 10 points, name this originator, with Heisenberg, of the 
Copenhagen interpretation whose model of the atom had electrons in quantized orbits. 
ANSWER: Niels  
Bohr 
190-13-83-20113 
14. This poem describes how “only reapers, reaping early in among the bearded barley, hear a song that 
echoes cheerly.” In its third section, a “gemmy bridle” is compared to “some branch of stars we see hung 
in the golden galaxy.” This poem’s final section describes “a carol, mournful, holy,” chanted by a woman 
“till her blood was frozen slowly.” The title character of this poem “weaves by night and day a magic web 
with colors gay” as “shadows of the world appear” in her mirror. For 10 points, name this poem by Lord 
Tennyson about a woman who is cursed when she looks upon Sir Lancelot. 
ANSWER: “The  
Lady of Shalott 
” 
014-13-83-20114 
NASAT 2013     20     Page  3 of 11 
15. After repeated harassment by the \"press lords,\" this prime minister claimed that journalists enjoyed 
\"power without responsibility, the prerogative of the harlot throughout the ages.\" This leader's government 
passed the Trade Disputes Act, which declared general strikes illegal, after weathering the only general 
strike in British history. This cousin of Rudyard Kipling highlighted the power of aerial attacks by noting 
that \"the bomber will always get through.\" This successor to Andrew Bonar Law returned Britain to the 
gold standard, signed the Locarno Pact, and weathered the abdication of Edward VIII. For 10 points, name 
this Conservative prime minister who led Britain through much of the interwar period. 
ANSWER: Stanley  
Baldwin 
080-13-83-20115 
16. This non-bone structure is depressed with the aid of four strap muscles. When diphtheria spreads to this 
structure, it results in a higher than average fever and the greatest chance of complications. This structure 
has three paired cartilages and three single ones, including the cricoid and the thyroid. As an infant grows 
into an adult, this structure lowers from the C2-C3 vertebrae to the C3-C6. This structure sits atop the hyoid 
bone and lies directly below the epiglottis, which prevents substances from entering it. This structure's main 
function is known as phonation and is accomplished by the vibration of some folds. For 10 points, name 
this structure that houses the vocal cords, commonly known as the voice box. 
ANSWER:  
larynx 
 [accept  
voice box 
 before it is mentioned] 
020-13-83-20116 
17. Gibson's paradox is the fact that while the gold standard was in force, this value was positively 
correlated with the wholesale price level rather than inflation. The Mundell-Fleming model shows that the 
global version raises the local version. It is the dependent variable for the LM curve in the IS/LM model, as 
greater output increases the demand for money and causes this value to increase to keep it in equilibrium 
with supply. The Fisher equation shows the nominal version of this to be approximately equal to the real 
type plus the rate of inflation. For 10 points, name this cost of borrowing money. 
ANSWER:  
interest 
 rate 
121-13-83-20117 
18. The speaker of a poem about this man mockingly asks \"And who's this little fellow in his itty-bitty 
robe?\"; that poem, titled for his \"first photograph\", is by Wislawa Szymborska. Konrad Kujau was the 
actual author of a work attributed by Hugh Trevor-Roper and others to this man. In a controversial George 
Steiner novel, a group led by Emmanuel Lieber tracks this man down in the Amazon jungle. A 1941 play 
satirizes this man as a Chicago mobster who attempts to gain control of the cauliflower racket. This subject 
of Brecht's  
The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui 
 also appears in a Yukio Mishima play about the deaths of 
Gregor Strasser and Ernst Roehm. For 10 points, identify this literary figure whose own writings include  
Mein Kampf 
. 
ANSWER: Adolf  
Hitler 
029-13-83-20118 
19. The organizer of this project ran an essay contest with Hearst Newspapers that was won by William 
Burkett, whose writing was featured in the Entablature. Korczak Ziolkowski was booted from this project 
after getting into a brawl with the leader's son, Lincoln. Doane Robinson came up with the idea for this 
project, which Robinson originally suggested to honor Red Cloud. The overseer of this project was a 
Danish architect chosen while he was working on Georgia's Stone Mountain. For 10 points, name this 
project spearheaded by Gutzon Borglum, who created a monument to four presidents in the Black Hills. 
ANSWER: construction of  
Mount Rushmore 
080-13-83-20119 
NASAT 2013     20     Page  4 of 11 
20. The skilled physician Eir is often theorized to be a form of, if not a companion of, this deity. In a 
euhemeristic story, this goddess once seduced a craftsman who tore down a gigantic statue of her husband. 
In another myth, one of this goddesses's attendants receives a golden ring whereas she herself receives a 
white linen robe. Another of her attendants rides the flying horse Hofvarpnir. In another story, this mistress 
of Fulla and Gna was shared between Vili and Ve during her husband's absence. A visitor to this goddess's 
hall of Fensalir manages to get her to reveal that she forgot to extract an oath from mistletoe, failing to 
secure complete invulnerability for her son. For 10 points, name this mother of Baldr, the wife of Odin. 
ANSWER:  
Frigg 
a 
020-13-83-20120 
21. Bernard Pyne Grenfell and Arthur Surridge Hunt found a group of these objects at Oxyrhynchus. A 
\"Villa\" from Herculaneum named for these things was owned by Lucius Calpurnius Piso and was copied 
directly in the Getty Villa. The \"Rhind\" one of these is a good source on ancient mathematics. These 
objects deteriorated with mold over the centuries in wet climates and could only survive in dry climates. 
Callimachus created the  
Pinakes 
 as a classification system for these, many of which were produced in 
Alexandria. Many ancient texts were preserved on, for 10 points, what writing surface made from a wetland 
plant found in Egypt? 
ANSWER:  
papyrus 
 rolls [or  
papyri 
; or  
papyrus 
 scrolls; prompt on  
books 
; prompt on  
texts 
] 
080-13-83-20121 
22. This city is the location of a complex designed by Steven Holl, in which eight residential towers form a 
rough U-shape connected by pedestrian sky bridges, named the Linked Hybrid. This city’s Friendship 
Store was once the only place to buy Western products here and is located in the Jianguomnwai district. 
Rem Koolhaas designed this city’s Central Television Building. A central building in this city features a 
massive red star on its ceilng surrounded by golden sunflower petals, and this city is the location of a 
stadium popularly known as the Bird’s Nest. For 10 points, name this city that is the location of the Great 
Hall of the People on Tienanmen Square. 
ANSWER:  
Beijing 
 [or  
Pei-ching 
; or  
Peking 
] 
030-13-83-20122 
23. The breaking of the conformal symmetry of this quantity in the chiral limit in QCD gives rise to 
asymptotic freedom. Within a gauge theory, this quantity is invariant under local transformations, and the 
invariance of this quantity with respect to time gives rise to the conservation of energy by Noether’s 
theorem. The derivative of this quantity with respect to a generalized coordinate is equal to the time 
derivative of the derivative of this quantity with respect to the time derivative of the generalized coordinate. 
The integral of this quantity gives the action and its Legendre transform gives the Hamiltonian. For 10 
points, name this quantity equal to the kinetic energy minus the potential energy. 
ANSWER:  
Lagrangian 
048-13-83-20123 
NASAT 2013     20     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2013 
Round 20 
Bonuses 
1. One character from this state, Dexter Green, works as a caddy when he falls in love with Judy Jones, and 
another character from this state marries Will Kennicott and moves to Gopher Prairie. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Midwestern state described in the short story \"Winter Dreams\" and the novel  
Main Street 
, 
both written by authors from this state. 
ANSWER:  
Minnesota 
[10] This man's novel about Minnesota,  
Lake Wobegon Days 
, was based off of material from his radio 
program,  
A Prairie Home Companion 
. 
ANSWER: Garrison  
Keillor 
[10] This owner of Birchbark Books in Minneapolis wrote the award-winning novels  
Love Medicine 
 and  
The Round House 
. 
ANSWER: Louise  
Erdrich 
023-13-83-20201  
2. Answer the following about the Great Railroad Strike in American history, for 10 points each. 
[10] The Great Railroad Strike, the first general strike in American history, struck many of the nation's 
largest cities in this year. A cause of the strike was ongoing anger over the election of Rutherford B. Hayes, 
who was inaugurated as President in this year. 
ANSWER:  
1877 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"1876\"] 
[10] The strike began with workers on this railroad, the first common carrier in the United States. Peter 
Cooper's  
Tom Thumb 
 was tested on this railroad, which started in Maryland and went west. 
ANSWER:  
Baltimore and Ohio 
 Railroad [or  
B and O 
 Railroad] 
[10] The strike began in this state, which was governed by Francis Pierpoint during the Civil War. The 
Baldwin-Felts Detective Agency shot strikers in this state at the 1920 Battle of Matewan. 
ANSWER:  
West Virginia 
080-13-83-20202  
3. This character is sentenced to death despite the efforts of his lawyer Boris Max. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poor black man from Chicago who murders Mary Dalton and his girlfriend Bessie. 
ANSWER:  
Bigger 
 Thomas [or Bigger  
Thomas 
] 
[10] Bigger Thomas is the protagonist of  
Native Son 
, a novel by this African-American author of  
Black Boy 
. 
ANSWER: Richard  
Wright 
[10] In  
Black Boy 
, Olin tries to trick Richard and Harrison into killing each other while Richard works at an 
optical shop in this city, from which he moves to Chicago. An illicit journey to this city is the subject of  
The Reivers 
. 
ANSWER:  
Memphis 
, Tennessee 
080-13-83-20203  
NASAT 2013     20     Page  6 of 11 
4. These creatures received their name because of their performance in short distance races, and they are 
often used in cutting because of their cow sense. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this breed of horse typically used by cowboys in the American West. 
ANSWER: American  
Quarter 
 Horses 
[10] This type of horse descended from Quarter Horses has patches of color and white, but is considered 
distinct from a Pinto. 
ANSWER:  
Paint 
 Horses [or  
paint 
s] 
[10] Horses are almost always measured from the ground to their withers using this measurement, which 
Henry VIII standardized at four inches. 
ANSWER:  
hand 
s 
023-13-83-20204  
5. This artist used a motif of interlocking crosses and octagons for the interior of a dome of a building 
dedicated to Charles Borromeo. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Italian architect who designed the Oratory of Saint Philip Neri, the Sant'Ivo alla Sapienza, 
and the facade of the San Carlo alle Quatro Fontane. 
ANSWER: Francesco  
Borromini 
[10] Borromini was a notorious rival of this Baroque Italian sculptor of the  
Fountain of the Four Rivers 
 and 
Ecstasy of St. Theresa 
. 
ANSWER: Gianlorenzo  
Bernini 
[10] Borromini and Bernini both worked on this bronze canopy in St. Peter's, whose spiral columns are 
inspired by the Temple of Solomon. 
ANSWER: St. Peter's  
Baldacchino 
080-13-83-20205  
6. This character is made jealous by the protagonist's attentions to Madame de Fervaques. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this daughter of a marquis who becomes engaged to Monsieur de Croisenois despite her 
affections for Julien Sorel. 
ANSWER:  
Mathilde 
 de la Mole [prompt on  
de la Mole 
] 
[10] Mathilde de la Mole appears in  
The Red and the Black, 
 a novel by this French author. 
ANSWER:  
Stendhal 
 [or Marie-Henri  
Beyle 
] 
[10] This protagonist of Stendhal's  
The Charterhouse of Parma 
 travels to Naples under the patronage of 
Count Mosca and his aunt, Gina. 
ANSWER:  
Fabrice 
 del Dongo [or Fabrice  
del Dongo 
; or  
Fabrizio 
 del Dongo; or Fabrizio  
del Dongo 
] 
192-13-83-20206  
7. This constant was first introduced by Arnold Sommerfeld. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this dimensionless quantity that is sometimes expressed as the product of the Coulomb constant 
and the square of the elementary charge over h-bar times the speed of light. Its magnitude is approximately 
1/137. 
ANSWER:  
fine structure 
 constant 
[10] The fine structure constant is the coupling constant for this fundamental force. Salam, Gashow, and 
Weinberg worked on unifying it with the weak force. 
ANSWER:  
electromagnetic 
 force or interaction [or  
electromagnetism 
] 
[10] This interaction depends on the fifth power of the fine structure constant. It results from the two p 
one-half state of the hydrogen atom being slightly lower in energy than the two s one-half state. 
ANSWER:  
Lamb shift 
189-13-83-20207  
NASAT 2013     20     Page  7 of 11 
8. This film has very little camera movement, apart from one scene in which one character watches from a 
high window as a man tries to get his friend to dunk a basketball. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Milos Forman-directed film, starring Louise Fletcher, which captured all five Academy 
Awards in 1975. 
ANSWER:  
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest 
[10] This actor won an Academy Award for his performance as Randal McMurphy in the film. He's famous 
for yelling \"Heeeere's Johnny!\" in  
The Shining 
. 
ANSWER: John Joseph \"Jack\"  
Nicholson 
[10] Nicholson memorably orders a chicken salad sandwich without the butter, the lettuce, the mayonnaise, 
or the chicken in this 1970 film, in which he plays oil rig worker Bobby Dupea. 
ANSWER:  
Five Easy Pieces 
020-13-83-20208  
9. This woman stepped on a snake while being chased by a satyr. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this wife of Orpheus. He lost her forever by looking back for her while escaping the 
Underworld. 
ANSWER:  
Eurydice 
[10] Orpheus was himself killed in Thrace when this group of Dionysus' female followers tore him to 
shreds, realizing that stones could not hurt him. 
ANSWER:  
maenad 
s 
[10] Orpheus saved the Argonauts by playing his lyre while passing by the Sirens. However, this member 
of the crew, the brother of Erybotes, jumped overboard anyway. He was only saved from death by 
Aphrodite. 
ANSWER:  
Bootes 
 [or  
Boutes 
] 
190-13-83-20209  
10. Answer the following about leagues in European history, for 10 points each. 
[10] This league, organized by Pope Clement VII to support Francis I in opposition to Charles V, lost a 
1526 to 1530 war. 
ANSWER: League of  
Cognac 
 [prompt on  
Clementine 
 League] 
[10] The Three Emperors League was an alliance between Alexander II of Russia, Wilhelm I of Germany, 
and Franz Joseph I of this dual monarchy. 
ANSWER:  
Austria-Hungary 
 [or  
Austro-Hungarian 
 Empire; prompt on partial answer] 
[10] This 1508 league was organized by Julius II against Venice, but the pope flip-flopped and allied with 
Venice later, proclaiming a \"Holy League\" against France. 
ANSWER: League of  
Cambrai 
020-13-83-20210  
11. Coronal loops, or prominences, are often found along with these phenomena. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these phenomena that result from intense magnetic activity inhibiting convection. 
ANSWER:  
sunspots 
[10] Sunspots occur in this layer of the sun, which is the layer from which light is radiated. 
ANSWER:  
photosphere 
[10] Butterfly diagrams are obtained when the incidence of sunspots over time is plotted against this 
quantity. 
ANSWER: solar  
latitude 
149-13-83-20211  
NASAT 2013     20     Page  8 of 11 
12. Identify these unorthodox instruments found in various pieces of classical music, for 10 points each. 
[10] These instruments sound at the end of Donizetti's opera  
Anna Bolena 
 and fire sixteen times total in the  
1812 Overture 
. 
ANSWER:  
cannon 
s 
[10] Twelve of these instruments in different pitches play in the overture of Ligeti's opera  
Le grande 
macabre 
. Four of them were brought from Paris for the New York premiere of Gershwin's  
An American in 
Paris 
. 
ANSWER:  
car horn 
s [or  
automobile horn 
s; or  
taxi horn 
s; prompt on  
horn 
s] 
[10] This slightly more conventional instrument, often consisting of a fabric-wrapped drum rubbing against 
wooden rods, evokes an eerie atmosphere in numerous Richard Strauss pieces, including  
Don Quixote 
 and  
An Alpine Symphony 
. 
ANSWER:  
wind machine 
020-13-83-20212  
13. This city had no laws against adultery and, in fact, encouraged women to sleep with men other than 
their husbands to produce better offspring. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Greek polis famous for producing strong warriors through its agoge. 
ANSWER:  
Sparta 
 [or  
Lacedaemon 
] 
[10] Sparta's two kings shared power with five of these elected officials, who oversaw the city while the 
kings were off on campaign. 
ANSWER:  
ephor 
s [or  
ephor 
ate] 
[10] Though they were free and controlled business in Sparta, unlike the helots, these residents of Laconia 
were not considered citizens. They fought as hoplites alongside the Spartiates at the Battle of Plataea. 
ANSWER:  
perioikoi 
 [or  
perioeci 
] 
080-13-83-20213  
14. This statement can be stated as the function pi of x is approximately equal to the logarithmic integral 
function as x goes to infinity. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this theorem which states that the number of namesake numbers not exceeding x is asymptotic 
to x over the natural log of x. 
ANSWER:  
prime 
 number theorem 
[10] This man and de la Vallée-Poussin independently proved the prime number theorem. The matrices 
named for this man are n-by-n matrices H with entries of plus and minus one that satisfy the identity H 
times transpose H equals n times identity matrix; those matrices are used in a namesake error-correcting 
code. 
ANSWER: Jacques Salomon  
Hadamard 
[10] The proof of the prime number theorem is due to the fact that this function can be extended 
meromorphically to the entire complex plane and does not have any zeros on the line where the real part of 
s equals one. A certain unsolved hypothesis states that the nontrivial zeros of this function have real part 
one-half. 
ANSWER:  
Riemann zeta 
 function 
066-13-83-20214  
NASAT 2013     20     Page  9 of 11 
15. A jinshi jidi was a person who excelled at the highest level in this procedure through their mastery of 
Confucian texts. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this institution of imperial China from the Tang dynasty well into the 1800s, which was praised 
for meritocratically selecting candidates for the bureaucracy. 
ANSWER: imperial civil service  
exam 
inations [or  
test 
s; or  
keju 
 zhi] 
[10] This man had his ambitions frustrated by multiple failures in the imperial exam, during which time his 
delusions of being Jesus's brother led him to start the Taiping Rebellion. 
ANSWER:  
Hong 
 Xiuquan [or  
Hong 
 Renkun] 
[10] Imperial exam-takers wrote using this rigid essay format, which included a set number of sections and 
many formalized parallel sentences. 
ANSWER:  
eight-legged 
 essay [or  
eight-part 
 essay; or  
baguwen 
] 
104-13-83-20215  
16. For 10 points, each answer the following about psychiatrists in literature. 
[10] Jed Parry, a stalker, ends up in a psychiatric hospital at the end of this author's  
Enduring Love 
. This 
novelist may be better known for  
Amsterdam 
 and  
Atonement 
. 
ANSWER: Ian  
McEwan 
[10] Psychiatrist Martin Dysart dreams about presiding over human sacrifices as an ancient Greek priest in 
this play. In this Peter Shaffer play, Dysart is in charge of treating Alan Strang after Alan blinds six 
animals. 
ANSWER:  
Equus 
[10] Martin Lynch-Gibbon discovers that his wife Antonia wants to leave him for her psychoanalyst Palmer 
Anderson in  
A Severed Head, 
 a novel by this author of  
The Sea, the Sea 
 and  
Under the Net. 
ANSWER: Iris  
Murdoch 
080-13-83-20216  
17. Jews celebrating this holiday eat honey-dipped apples and greet each other with the phrase \" 
L'shanah 
tovah 
.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this holiday that takes place on the First of Tishri, which marks the New Year in the Jewish 
calendar. 
ANSWER:  
Rosh Hashanah 
[10] Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur are the bookends of this ten-day period in Judaism, during which the  
machzor 
 is used as a prayerbook. It is a time to consider one's sins and repent before Yom Kippur. 
ANSWER: the  
Days of Awe 
 [or the  
Yamim Noraim 
; or the High  
Holy Days 
] 
[10] In this practice on Rosh Hashanah, Jews take pieces of bread out of their pockets and throw them in 
the river, symbolizing the casting-off of their sins. 
ANSWER:  
Tashlikh 
080-13-83-20217  
18. All of these proteins except for type 3 use the MyD88 pathway. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify these pattern recognition receptors that can initiate the adaptive and innate immune responses 
when they detect a pathogen. 
ANSWER:  
Toll-like 
 receptors [or  
TLR 
s] 
[10] Toll-like receptors were named for their similarity to the  
Toll 
 gene in these model organisms. These 
model organisms have a very short life span, lay a lot of eggs, and are sometimes called fruit files. 
ANSWER:  
Drosophila  melanogaster 
 [or  
D rosophila  melanogaster 
; or  
vinegar fly 
] 
[10] One of the ligands to which TLR2 binds is Hsp70, which is a family of chaperone proteins named for 
this kind of shock. 
ANSWER:  
heat 
066-13-83-20218  
NASAT 2013     20     Page  10 of 11 
19. The release of this thinker's spoken-word album  
Sketches of my Culture 
 and his time spent volunteering 
for Bill Bradley's presidential campaign were among the items of conflict between him and Harvard 
president Lawrence Summers. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this African American Studies professor at Princeton who appeared in both sequels to  
The 
Matrix 
 and co-authored  
The Future of the Race 
 with Henry Louis Gates, Jr. 
ANSWER: Cornel Ronald  
West 
[10] \"Malcolm X and Black Rage\", \"The Crisis of Black Leadership\", and \"Nihilism in Black America\" are 
three of the eight essays in this West collection. 
ANSWER:  
Race Matters 
[10] West's history of the growth and decline of pragmatism is title for \"the American evasion\" of this 
intellectual discipline, of which pragmatism itself is a school. 
ANSWER:  
philosophy 
 [or  
The American Evasion of  Philosophy 
] 
029-13-83-20219  
20. In May 2013, three women dressed as nuns tried to travel from this country's capital to its island San 
Andres with two kilos of cocaine. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this South American country that also had its internal transportation stymied by blockades set 
up during a two-week strike by its coffee farmers. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Colombia 
 [or Republica de  
Colombia 
] 
[10] In March 2013, peace talks between FARC and the government were restarted by this current 
Colombian president, who replaced Alvaro Uribe in 2010. 
ANSWER: Juan Manuel  
Santos 
 Calderon 
[10] Santos has been criticized for not taking Uribe's side in his May 2013 war of words with this president 
of Venezuela, who was elected after serving as Hugo Chavez's vice president. 
ANSWER: Nicolas  
Maduro 
 Moros 
023-13-83-20220  
21. These political entities were recognized as the third college of the Imperial Diet in the Peace of 
Westphalia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these entities, including Basel and Mainz, that were relatively independent because they were 
subject only to the emperor rather than local rulers. 
ANSWER: Free  
Imperial Cities 
 [or  
imperial city 
; or Freie  
Reichsstadt 
; or  
free town 
s; or  
free cities 
] 
[10] Martin Bucer led the Protestant Reformation of this Free Imperial City. Johannes Gutenberg built his 
movable type printing press in this city, where some oaths were sworn by Louis the German and Charles 
the Bald. 
ANSWER:  
Strasbourg 
 [or  
Strassburg 
] 
[10] This wealthy Free Imperial City was the site of the peace ending the War of the Schmalkaldic League 
and promulgating the doctrine of \"cuius regio, eius religio.\" Philipp Melanchthon issued its \"confession.\" 
ANSWER:  
Augsburg 
080-13-83-20221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     20     Page  11 of 11 
