NASAT 2012 
Round 16 
Tossups 
1. One king of this place, Bera, rebels against the Elamite king Kedorlaomer, but is told that another man 
“will accept nothing belonging to you, not even a thread or the thong of a sandal.” One former resident of 
this place leaves it to go to Zoar, protesting that he cannot reach the mountains. After leaving here, one 
figure fathers Ben-Ammi and Moab after drunkenly having sex with his two daughters in a cave. In this 
location, two angels visit a man, who protects them from a crowd that wants to have sex with them. While 
leaving it, one woman looks behind and turns into a pillar of salt. For 10 points, name this wicked city 
which Lot flees from, which is destroyed by God along with Gomorrah. 
ANSWER:  
Sodom 
052-12-59-16102 
2. This character preemptively creates an alibi for one action by resetting all the clocks at a friend's house. 
At the beginning of the novel, this character sets off on his yellow horse with a letter of invitation and is 
knocked out by the companions of the \"man from Meung,\" who becomes his enemy. This character nearly 
kills the Comte de Wardes on a trip to London with his servant Planchet and later pretends to be Wardes 
during a tryst, when he discovers the fleur-de-lis branded on a woman's shoulder. This character once 
comically schedules three duels at noon, 1 PM, and 2 PM, and falls in love with Milady de Winter. A friend 
of Athos, Aramis, and Porthos, for 10 points, name this Gascon rascal, the protagonist of  
The Three 
Musketeers. 
ANSWER:  
d'Artagnan 
020-12-59-16103 
3. Espousing the ideal of a \"free church in a free state,\" this man resigned and forced his king to recall him 
to push through a bill suppressing any monastery unconnected with education and charity. This man came 
to power by unifying the center-left with the center-right in a coalition known as the \"marriage.\" This 
politician negotiated the Treaty of Plombieres with Napoleon III, who agreed to support his cause. As 
founder of the newspaper  
Il Risorgimento 
, he advocated his homeland's independence from Austria. For 10 
points, name this wily statesman who served as the first prime minister of a unified Italy. 
ANSWER: Camillo Benso, Count of  
Cavour 
 [or Camillo  
Benso 
, count di Cavour] 
080-12-59-16104 
4. The wealthy financier La Poupliniere patronized this man, who composed \"La Timide\" and 
\"L'Indiscrete\" among other  
Pieces de clavecin en concerts 
. Telaira sings the aria \"Tristes apprets, pales 
flambeaux\" in one of this man's operas, while another has four acts in Turkey, Peru, Persia, and North 
America. This man's music was held up against the \"corrupting\" influence of Italian opera during the \"War 
of the Buffoons,\" though he had earlier been controversial for the techniques he promoted in his  
Treatise on 
Harmony 
. This composer's operas include  
Les Indes Galantes 
 and  
Castor et Pollux 
. For 10 points, name 
this Baroque composer who, after the death of Lully, was the dominant operatic composer in France. 
ANSWER: Jean-Philippe  
Rameau 
080-12-59-16105 
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  1 of 12 
5. This process is inhibited in culture using cyclohexamide, and the Rotavirus uses the NSP3 protein to 
trigger it. Some viruses use an IRES to trigger it, which can be performed in vitro using the S30 E. coli 
extract. Diptheria toxin targets EF-2, which works with the GTP-hydrolyzing EF-Tu protein during this 
process’ elongation stage. The attachment of a water molecule by the releasing factor is used to terminate 
this process. This process begins after the Kozak consensus sequence triggers the binding of the small 
subunit, which finds the start codon. For 10 points, name this process that occurs when tRNA comes to the 
ribosome, in which a messenger RNA is read in order to create proteins. 
ANSWER:  
translation 
 [or  
protein synthesis 
 or equivalents until the very end] 
048-12-59-16106 
6. This state contains the world's only Leadbeater's possums, which can be found in the Healesville 
Sanctuary in its Yarra Valley region. Artifacts of its 1850s gold rush include intact mine shafts in Bendigo. 
This state's northern border is formed by the Murray River. Its capital was founded along Port Philip Bay 
by the illustrious John Batman. Its city of Ballarat is near the southern terminus of the Great Dividing 
Range and is the site of an 1854 stockade built by disaffected miners. It is bordered to the west by South 
Australia, to the north by New South Wales, and is separated from Tasmania by the Bass Straight. For 10 
points, name this Australian state named for an English queen. 
ANSWER:  
Victoria 
015-12-59-16107 
7. In one scene, this character looks out the window and sees a young dog watching a flock of wild geese, 
with the lead goose \"bigger than the others.\" He screams \"Air Raid!\" while he is being shaven and notes of 
the story he tells, \"it's the truth even if it didn't happen.\" After being offered a stick of Juicy Fruit, this man 
reveals that he is not a deaf-mute. This character refers to society as a \"Combine\" committed to controlling 
humanity. At the end of the novel in which he appears, this hall-sweeper smothers a lobotomized Randle 
Patrick McMurphy before escaping from an asylum run by \"Big Nurse.\" For 10 points, name this six-foot 
eight half-Native American schizophrenic who narrates Ken Kesey's  
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. 
ANSWER: Chief  
Bromden 
 [or Chief  
Broom 
 ; or the  
Chief 
] 
003-12-59-16108 
8. This ruler allegedly saved some of his rival's troops from quicksand at the Abby of Mont St. Michel. 
After this ruler denied Aelfgar the earldom the East Anglia, Aeflgar allied with Gruffyd ap Llywelyn to 
take the kingdom of Hereford from this man's underling Ralph the Timid. This man's brother defeated this 
man's brothers-in-law, Edwin of Mercia and Morcar of Northumbria, at the Battle of Fulford. This ruler 
advanced across the Derwent River in a battle in which he defeated his brother Tostig and Tostig's ally, 
Harald Hardrada. His force of housecarls was defeated atop Senlac Hill while fighting in 1066. For 10 
points, name this Anglo-Saxon King of England who won the Battle of Stamford Bridge and lost the Battle 
of Hastings. 
ANSWER:  
Harold Godwinson 
 [or  
Harold II 
 of England; prompt on  
Harold 
] 
079-12-59-16109 
9. In Book Twelve of one work, this thinker claimed that forty-seven or fifty-five gods might be needed to 
explain the separate motions of the heavenly bodies, but clarified that there could only logically be one, a 
“thought thinking about thinking” which turns potentialities to actualities. In his  
History of the Animals, 
this thinker was the first to arrange organisms on a \"Great Chain of Being.\" His works on such concepts as 
the “unmoved mover” and “the four causes” survive largely as lecture notes. For 10 points, name this 
author of  
On the Heavens 
 and the books of logic in the  
Organon 
, a Greek founder of the Lyceum whose 
thoughts survive in the  
Metaphysics 
 and  
Nicomachean Ethics. 
ANSWER:  
Aristotle 
 of Stagira [or  
Aristoteles 
] 
104-12-59-16110 
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  2 of 12 
10. Catalytic coating of a quartz tube lined with carbon and this element is required for oxygen to be 
analyzed in CHN analysis. Organometallic chemistry was kicked off by a coordination complex of this 
element, known as Zeise's salt. The standard hydrogen electrode is made of this element. A popular 
chemotherapy drug is a square planar coordination complex of this metal and four chlorine atoms. Also 
present in Adams's catalyst, this least reactive metal forms an alloy with iridium that has been used to 
define the kilogram. In the group named for this element, the metal above it catalyzes hydrogenation 
reactions if \"poisoned\" by Lindlar catalyst. Palladium is a substitute for, for 10 points, what expensive 
group 10 transition metal? 
ANSWER:  
platinum 
 [or  ] 
Pt 
020-12-59-16111 
11. In one story, Tantalus had his friend Pandareus steal a golden one of these creatures from the temple of 
Zeus. Another of them, Maera, found the grave of Icarius. One of these creatures, who was owned by 
Eurytion and found on Erytheia, protected the cattle of Geryon before being slain by Heracles, while 
another had a tail and mane made of snakes. The Sibyl of Cumae prepared a cake made of honey to pacify 
one of them. Eurystheus hid inside a jar in fear of one of these creatures, whom Heracles captured in his 
twelfth labor. For 10 points, name this type of creature exemplified by Orthrus and Cerberus. 
ANSWER:  
dog 
s 
030-12-59-16112 
12. This character says of his wife, \"She loved me for the dangers I had passed, and I loved her that she did 
pity them.\" In another scene, he describes a gift created by a two-hundred-year-old sibyl that an Egyptian 
charmer gave to his mother. This character compares himself to a \"base Indian\" who \"threw a pearl away 
richer than all his tribe\" before describing how he took a \"circumcised dog\" by the throat \"and smote him 
thus.\" His enemy declares that this man is making the \"beast with the two backs\" with his wife to enrage 
Brabantio. His promotion of Michael Cassio angers his lieutenant, who proceeds to turn him against 
Desdemona. For 10 points, name this Moor deceived by Iago in a Shakespeare tragedy. 
ANSWER:  
Othello 
080-12-59-16113 
13. During this king's reign, rumors abounded that he had a secret marriage to Lucy Walter and had hidden 
the certificate in a black box. Michael de Ruyt burned several ships at Chatham in response to this king's 
failed invasion of the Netherlands, which ended with the Treaty of Breda. He was advised by a ministry 
whose common name was an acronym from the surnames of its members, the \"Cabal.\" Because his wife 
Catherine of Braganza was sterile, this man faced the Exclusion Crisis, which sought to bar his Catholic 
brother from the throne. That brother allegedly wanted to assassinate this king as part of the Popish Plot. 
For 10 points, name this \"Merry Monarch,\" a Stuart who came to power in the \"Restoration.\" 
ANSWER:  
Charles II 
 of England [prompt on  
Charles 
] 
080-12-59-16114 
14. In one of this choreographer’s ballets, three sisters experience flashbacks prompted by chess pieces. 
The dancer Erick Hawkins made his name by originating the lead role in this choreographer’s best-known 
ballet. This choreographer of  
Deaths and Entrances 
 used music by Norman Dello Joio for a ballet in which 
three dancers represent the Maid, Warrior, and Martyr aspects of Joan of Arc. In another ballet by this 
choreographer of  
Seraphic Dialogue 
, doors open and close to show one dancer using an ax to kill 
Agamemnon. Isamu Noguchi designed sets for this woman’s best-known ballet, in which the Bride and the 
Farmer dance to the Shaker hymn “Simple Gifts.” For 10 points, name this choreographer of Aaron 
Copland’s  
Appalachian Spring 
. 
ANSWER: Martha  
Graham 
079-12-59-16115 
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  3 of 12 
15. For a node on an undirected graph, this term refers to the longest walk from that node to another node 
on the graph. In another field, this term refers to a quantity equal to the square root of the flattening factor f 
times two minus f. It can be calculated as the length from the center to the focus divided by the length of 
the semimajor axis. This quantity is between 0 and 1 for an ellipse and greater than 1 for a hyperbola. For 
10 points, name this quantity symbolized epsilon, which measures how different a conic section is from a 
circle. 
ANSWER:  
eccentricity 
080-12-59-16116 
16. The Hodrick-Prescott filter is often used to isolate these phenomena from data.The Kiyotaki-Moore 
model shows how credit restriction can affect these phenomena, while the “real” theory of these sees them 
as due entirely to exogenous changes, mostly technological shocks. Nikolai Kondratiev studied particularly 
long versions of them. Stanley Jevons suggested these might be due to sunspots, as both last for about 
eleven years. The increasing magnitude of these will increase the proletarian population until revolution is 
inevitable, according to Karl Marx, who referred to the “boom and bust” of these phenomena. For 10 
points, name these fluctuations of GDP whose troughs can be recessions. 
ANSWER:  
business cycle 
s 
121-12-59-16117 
17. TRIUMF is the largest one of these devices, which can provide strong focusing if the field is allowed to 
vary azimuthally. A resonance named for these devices is exploited in Fourier transform mass spectrometry 
and Penning traps. Particles in these devices are braked by the Abraham-Lorentz force because the jerk 
points opposite the velocity. These devices consist of a vacuum chamber with two barely separated 
D-shaped electrodes. The quantity q B over two pi m gives a frequency named for these devices. Varying 
the RF field in these devices to correct for relativistic effects gives a synchrotron. For 10 points, name these 
accelerators which use electric and magnetic fields to force charged particles into spiral tracks. 
ANSWER:  
cyclotron 
 [do NOT accept \"synchrotron\"; prompt on  
particle accelerator 
] 
048-12-59-16118 
18. One senator from this state proposed the forty bale hypothesis. A representative from this state 
proposed the first gag rule and proclaimed that \"Cotton is King.\" Represented by James Hammond and 
George McDuffie, this state was the site of a failed uprising that occurred during the mayorship of James 
Hamilton and in which Peter Poyas participated. This state's former capital was surrendered by Benjamin 
Lincoln to Henry Clinton and was the site of Denmark Vesey's failed rebellion. One man from this state 
protested the Tariff of Abominations by writing this state's \"Exposition and Protest.\" For 10 points, what 
state defied the federal government in the Nullification Crisis and was represented by John C. Calhoun? 
ANSWER:  
South Carolina 
149-12-59-16119 
19. In one poem, this poet wrote, “This is the hour of lead, remembered, if outlived, as freezing persons, 
recollect the snow.” This poet also wrote, “Orpheus’ sermon captivated, it did not condemn,” in a poem 
beginning “The Bible is an antique volume written by faded men.” In another poem, she describes “an 
imperial affliction sent us of the air” whose going is “like the distance on the look of death.” In another of 
her poems, the speaker notes, “The stillness in the room was like the stillness in the air.” For 10 points, 
name this American poet who wrote poems beginning “There’s a certain slant of light” and “I heard a fly 
buzz, when I died.” 
ANSWER: Emily  
Dickinson 
014-12-59-16120 
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  4 of 12 
20. In one of this artist's paintings, Fanny Stevenson lies slumped in a chair as her husband, Robert Louis 
Stevenson, fidgets about. In another of his works, a single orange sits on an abandoned chair beneath two 
guitars hanging on the wall; in that work, a man tilts his neck back to shout while sitting next to guitarists 
who accompany a gypsy dancer. Two tall Japanese vases dwarf four young girls in pinafores in another of 
his paintings. This artist of  
El Jaleo 
 and  
The Daughters of Edouard Darley Boit 
 controversially painted 
Virginie Gautreau as a pale woman wearing a black satin dress. For 10 points, name this artist of the  
Portrait of Madame X 
. 
ANSWER: John Singer  
Sargent 
052-12-59-16121 
21. Plages are highly dense regions that surround these objects that are contrasted with faculae. These 
objects are composed of the umbra and lighter penumbra. Wilson measured an increase in the appearance 
of these objects since the previous 11-year Schwabe cycle. Dalton, Sporer, and Maunder all name 
minimums in the activity of these objects that coincided with the Little Ice Age. Light emitted from these 
objects indicates Zeeman splitting of the spectral lines. Prominences and flares occur in regions with high 
activity levels for these objects that are created in pairs by the magnetic field. For 10 points, name these 
relatively dark regions on the sun. 
ANSWER:  
sunspot 
s 
124-12-59-16122 
22. As President, this man oversaw the ceremonial groundbreaking of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal. 
This man noted the strengths of the metric system but recommended using the imperial system in his  
Report on Weights and Measures 
. This President signed a treaty that set one boundary as the Sabine River 
up to the 32nd parallel. This man became the only ex-President to serve in the House of Representatives. 
Earlier, he had negotiated a treaty that ceded Florida to the U.S. with Luis de Onis. This man became 
President after the House voted him into office over his eventual successor, who defeated him in 1828. For 
10 points, name this President who won the election of 1824 over Andrew Jackson. 
ANSWER: John  uincy  
Q Adams 
 [prompt on  
Adams 
; do not accept \"John Adams\"] 
149-12-59-16123 
23. One character in this play questions by why one can stir jam into rice pudding but never unstir it, and 
earlier questions the meaning of the phrase \"carnal embrace.\" Another character in this play states that \"it's 
wanting to know that makes us matter.\" Characters in this play include Bernard Nightingale, who gives 
Hannah Jarvis's book about Lady Caroline Lamb a poor review. A character in this play dies in a fire on the 
night of her seventeenth birthday, possibly causing Septimus Hodge to become the hermit of Sidley Park. 
For 10 points, identify this play about mathematics genius Thomasina Coverly and the Croom estate, 
written by Tom Stoppard. 
ANSWER:  
Arcadia 
126-12-59-16124 
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2012 
Round 16 
Bonuses 
1. In this novel, one character becomes his love’s new shepherd after he helps put out a fire. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Bathsheba Everdene is courted by Gabriel Oak, Farmer Boldwood, and Sergeant Troy in what novel 
that takes place in Weatherbury? 
ANSWER:  
Far from the Madding Crowd 
[10]  
Far from the Madding Crowd 
 was written by this English author who set many of his works in the 
fictional county of Wessex. He also wrote  
Jude the Obscure. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Hardy 
[10] In  
Far from the Madding Crowd, 
 Bathsheba Everdene sends a Valentine’s Day card with a seal that 
says this on it. 
ANSWER: \" 
marry me 
\" 
149-12-59-16201  
2. The image in this work is taken from an Irv Novick piece in the magazine  
All-American Men of War 
. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1963 painting which depicts a fighter jet destroying an enemy plane. The caption “I pressed 
the fire control…and ahead of me rockets blazed through the sky” is visible. 
ANSWER:  
Whaam! 
[10]  
Whaam! 
 is a work by Roy Lichtenstein, who is associated with this art movement that used aspects of 
mass culture, such as advertising and comic books. Andy Warhol is another member of this movement. 
ANSWER:  
Pop art 
[10] A 1964 Lichtenstein painting shows a blonde girl thinking “I know how you must feel,” about a man 
with this name. In Lichtenstein’s “Drowning Girl,” the title character would rather sink than call a man 
with this name for help. 
ANSWER:  
Brad 
052-12-59-16202  
3. Achilles dragged around the body of this man before eventually giving it up to King Priam. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this son of Priam and Hecuba and wife of Andromache, one of the greatest Trojan warriors 
during the Trojan War. 
ANSWER:  
Hector 
[10] This woman was the mother of Hector and wife of Priam. After the Trojan War, she was transformed 
into a dog instead of becoming Odysseus' concubine. 
ANSWER:  
Hecuba 
[10] Hector was tricked into fighting Achilles when Athena took the form of this prince. This brother of 
Hector married Helen after the death of Paris. 
ANSWER:  
Deiphobus 
064-12-59-16203  
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  6 of 12 
4. In one scene in this film, the protagonist proudly introduces her new husband to her children, one of 
whom responds by kicking in the television screen. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Rainer Werner Fassbinder film about the prejudice faced by the elderly cleaning woman 
Emmi and her young Moroccan husband. It was inspired by Douglas Sirk’s  
All That Heaven Allows. 
ANSWER:  
Ali:  Fear Eats the Soul 
 [or  
Angst Essen Seele Auf 
] 
[10] This other director of the New German Cinema worked with deranged actor Klaus Kinski on a film 
about a Spanish conquistador,  
Aguirre: The Wrath of God 
. He directed the documentaries  
Grizzly Man 
 and  
Into the Abyss 
. 
ANSWER: Werner  
Herzog 
 Stipetic 
[10] Fassbinder’s film  
Whity 
 subverts the conventions of this Hollywood genre, examples of which include 
John Ford’s  
Stagecoach 
 and  
The Searchers. 
ANSWER:  
Western 
014-12-59-16204  
5. Due to a lack of prevailing winds this area is known as the doldrums by sailors. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this region that appears as a band of clouds that encircles the globe near the equator. 
ANSWER:  
ITCZ 
 (\"itch\") [or  
Intertropical Convergence Zone 
] 
[10] The northward shift of the ITCZ in the summer, and the corresponding southward shift in the winter, 
results in these wind systems that undergo seasonal reversals, bringing large amounts of precipitation. A 
particularly strong version affects Southeast Asia and India. 
ANSWER:  
monsoon 
[10] Oxygen isotopes from stalagmites can be used as this type of record to demonstrate the decline in the 
intensity of the East Asia monsoon over the last 9000 years. 
ANSWER:  
proxy 
 record 
149-12-59-16205  
6. This figure was the subject of a book whose title states he was “in Two Worlds.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this last member of the Yahi people, who in 1911 emerged from the wild. He was studied by 
Alfred Kroeber, who gave him this name, which means “man” in the Yana language. 
ANSWER:  
Ishi 
[10] Ishi was a resident of this western state, where anthropologists might also study the impact of the 
Camino Real on local religious practices. 
ANSWER:  
California 
[10] Kroeber was a student of Franz Boas, much like this man, a pioneer in African American studies, who 
established Northwestern’s anthropology department. His best known work is  
The Myth of the Negro Past 
. 
ANSWER: Melville  
Herskovits 
052-12-59-16206  
7. The playwright Aeschylus fought in this battle, in which his brother died. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 490 BCE victory for an Athenian army over the invading Persians. A messenger named 
Pheidippides supposedly died reporting this victory to the city of Athens. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Marathon 
[10] The Greek commander at Marathon was this general, who had been the tyrant over the Chersonese 
region. He died from a leg wound suffered during his attack on the island of Paros. 
ANSWER:  
Miltiades 
 the Younger 
[10] This son of Miltiades helped build the Athenian empire as commander of the Delian League. He 
defeated the Persians at the Battle of the Eurymedon River. 
ANSWER:  
Cimon 
080-12-59-16207  
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  7 of 12 
8. This kind of reaction is balanced by using half-reactions that involve adding hydrogen ions in acidic 
solution. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of reaction in which one element gains electrons and another element loses electrons. 
ANSWER:  
redox 
 reaction [or  
oxidation-reduction 
 reaction; or  
reduction-oxidation 
 reaction; prompt on  
oxidation 
; prompt on  
reduction 
] 
[10] This is the term for a special case of redox reaction in which the same element is simultaneously 
oxidized and reduced. 
ANSWER:  
disproportionation 
 reaction 
[10] The Canizzaro reaction is a disproportionation reaction that transforms an aldehyde into an alcohol and 
one of these compounds. 
ANSWER:  
carboxylic acid 
 [or  
carboxylate 
] 
003-12-59-16208  
9. One character in this play, which is split into two parts called “Millenium Approaches” and 
“Perestroika,” claims he is not a homosexual because homosexuals have no “clout.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Tony Kushner play whose in which Prior Walter has prophetic visions of the title figures 
and a fictionalized Roy Cohn remains closeted while dying of AIDS in the 1980s. 
ANSWER:  
Angels in America : A Gay Fantasia on National Themes 
[10] The epilogue of  
Angels in America 
 takes place along Bethesda Fountain in a park. This American 
playwright of  
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
 set his play  
The Zoo Story 
 in a park. 
ANSWER: Edward Franklin  
Albee 
[10] This commonly-performed work by Moises Kaufmann’s theater company was compiled from 
interviews done in Wyoming after gay youth Matthew Shepard was left to die on a fence there. 
ANSWER:  
The  Laramie Project 
104-12-59-16209  
10. As part of this agreement, Maine became a state. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this agreement brokered by Henry Clay, which involved the admission of its namesake as a 
slave state. Ruled unconstitutional by the Dred Scott Decision, this agreement established the 36' 30\" 
parallel as the northernmost boundary for slavery. 
ANSWER:  
Missouri 
 Compromise [or Compromise of  
1820 
] 
[10] The Missouri Compromise was prompted by this man's attempts to introduce legislation that 
prohibited the extension of slavery into Missouri. This New York Representative proposed to free all slaves 
already in Missouri the age of 25. 
ANSWER: James  
Tallmadge 
[10] Jesse Thomas, the man who officially introduced the Missouri Compromise, came from this state. This 
state was also home to the leader of the Old Republicans, John Randolph, as well as Thomas Ritchie. 
ANSWER: Commonwealth of  
Virginia 
149-12-59-16210  
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  8 of 12 
11. This epileptic character faints after seeing a vision of an impaled pig's head ominously promise to \"have 
some fun\" with him. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Christ figure, who realizes that \"the beast\" is not \"something you can hunt and kill\" after 
discovering the corpse of a pilot tangled in a parachute. He is gruesomely murdered by a group of frenzied 
boys at a feast. 
ANSWER:  
Simon 
[10] This author of  
Pincher Martin 
 created the characters Jack, Ralph, Simon and Piggy in  
Lord of the 
Flies. 
ANSWER: William Gerald  
Golding 
[10] In  
Lord of the Flies 
, Roger and Maurice bully these younger children by destroying their sand castle. 
These children, who first discuss the supposed \"monster,\" spend most of their time eating the island's fruit 
and getting diarrhea as a result. 
ANSWER: the  
littluns 
124-12-59-16211  
12. Name these Charles Dickens novels, for 10 points each. 
[10] In this novel, set during the French Revolution, Sydney Carton gives up his life for his lookalike 
Charles Darnay. 
ANSWER:  
A  Tale of Two Cities 
[10] This first novel by Charles Dickens follows Tracy Tupman, Augustus Snodgrass, Nathaniel Winkle, 
and the title character, who travel around England and report on their findings. 
ANSWER:  
The  Pickwick Papers 
[10] This novel follows a shipping merchant who comes to grief when his son, Paul, dies of overwork at 
boarding school. The title character is rescued from suicide with the return of his son-in-law, Walter Gay, 
from the West Indies. 
ANSWER:  
Dombey and Son 
080-12-59-16212  
13. Answer some questions about poetry and Norse mythology, for 10 points each. 
[10] Much of Norse myth survives in the “Poetic” or “Elder” one of these collections compiled in Iceland. 
The “Prose” one was compiled and composed by the Icelandic statesman Snorri Sturlusson. 
ANSWER:  
edda 
s or  
eddur 
[10] Odin gained powers of poetry by stealing this substance from the giant Suttung. It had been created 
from honey and the blood of the murdered god Kvasir. 
ANSWER:  
mead 
 of poetry [or  
mead 
 of Kvasir] 
[10] This Norse god of poetry is married to Idunn. 
ANSWER:  
Bragi 
104-12-59-16213  
14. Answer these questions about landmark things in Washington State, for 10 points each. 
[10] Seattle’s tallest landmark is this 605-foot tower built for the 1962 World’s Fair, which contains 
elevators running up to its observation deck. 
ANSWER:  
Space Needle 
[10] A strait connecting the Salish Sea and Puget Sound to the Pacific is named for this Greek-born Spanish 
explorer. The smallest tectonic plate, which sits off Washington’s western coast, is also named for him. 
ANSWER: Juan  
de Fuca 
 [or Ionannis  
Fokas 
] 
[10] This heavily-glaciated volcano in the North Cascades has a namesake ski area located east of the town 
of Bellingham. It’s shorter than Mount Rainier by about 4,000 feet. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Baker 
104-12-59-16214  
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  9 of 12 
15. The losing ruler in this battle personally unhorsed Baron Cheyne during fighting. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this August 1485 battle that took place near Ambion Hill. During this battle, Thomas and 
William Stanley held back, waiting to see what force to support. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Bosworth 
 Field 
[10] The Battle of Bosworth Field effectively ended this civil war between the Houses of Lancaster and 
York, which took its name from the different colored flowers used by the houses as symbols. 
ANSWER: Wars of the  
Roses 
[10] Some historians consider the final battle in the Wars of the Roses to be Stoke Field, in which newly 
crowned Henry VII's forces defeated Yorkist supporters of this man, who claimed to be the Earl of 
Warwick. Unlike a later pretender to the throne, he was not executed after his plan failed. 
ANSWER: Lambert  
Simnel 
052-12-59-16215  
16. This metal has the highest thermal conductivity of all metals. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this metal with chemical symbol Ag. The compound that this mineral forms with iodine is 
commonly used in cloud seeding. 
ANSWER:  
silver 
[10] Silver atoms were deflected by a magnetic field in this experiment that first demonstrated that particles 
have spin. Rather than detecting a continuous spread of silver atoms, this experiment detected two bunches 
of deflected silver atoms. 
ANSWER:  
Stern-Gerlach 
 experiment 
[10] The magnetic field used in the Stern-Gerlach experiment had this property whereby it did not have a 
uniform strength or direction. 
ANSWER:  
inhomogeneous 
 [or word forms] 
149-12-59-16216  
17. This poet called the title object a \"vain artifice\" in \"To Her Portrait.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poet who defended the education of women in a letter responding to Filotea and also wrote 
the philosophical poem \"First Dream.\" 
ANSWER:  
Sor Juana 
 Ines de la Cruz 
[10] This later Mexican author wrote  
The Traps of Faith, 
 a biography of Sor Juana. This man also 
discussed Mexican culture in  
The Labyrinth of Solitude. 
ANSWER: Octavio  
Paz 
[10] This long poem by Paz about the meaning of life is meant to mirror the 584-day synodic cycle of the 
planet Venus due to Aztec reverence for the morning and evening star. 
ANSWER: \" 
Sun Stone 
\" [or \" 
Piedra de Sol 
\"] 
105-12-59-16217  
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  10 of 12 
18. He served as Professor of Egyptology at the University College in London and he wrote about advances 
in his field in a work titled  
Methods and Aims in Archaeology 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this archaeologist who made exciting discoveries such as the Fayum portraits and a stone slab 
from the time of King Mernetaph, and who excavated the Royal Palace and the Great Temple of Aten in 
the city of Amarna. 
ANSWER: William Matthew Flinders  
Petrie 
[10] This other archaeologist worked under Flinders Petrie at Amarna and was later financed by Lord 
Carnarvon. He is best known for discovering the tomb of Tutenkhamen. 
ANSWER: Howard  
Carter 
[10] Yet another British Egyptologist was Thomas Young, whose translation of the Rosetta stone was 
improved upon by this Frenchman. He outlined his research in a primer on Egyptian hieroglyphics. 
ANSWER: Jean-Francois  
Champollion 
108-12-59-16218  
19. This character says that if Shiva handed Patel a million dollars and told him to sign, he would not. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this aggressive salesman in  
Glengarry Glen Ross. 
 He manipulates the timid James Lingk and at 
the end of the play demands to get the action of Shelley “The Machine” Levene. 
ANSWER:  
Ricky 
 Roma [or Ricky  
Roma 
] 
[10]  
Glengarry Glen Ross 
 is a play by this American author, who wrote about a sexual harassment 
allegation on a college campus in the play  
Oleanna. 
ANSWER: David Alan  
Mamet 
[10] In another Mamet play, junk shop owner Don and a group including Teach plan on stealing this 
possession of a wealthy man in revenge for a bad deal. 
ANSWER: a  
coin 
 collection [or obvious equivalents] 
052-12-59-16219  
20. After a ligand binds to a receptor tyrosine kinase, the \"cross\" form of this process occurs three times. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this reversible covalent modification that adds a -PO  group to a target protein. 
4 
ANSWER:  
phosphorylation 
 [accept word forms] 
[10] Phosphorylated tyrosine residues can be recognized by this domain found within the Src oncoprotein 
and many other signal transduction pathways. 
ANSWER:  
SH2 
 domain [or  
Src Homology 2 
 domain] 
[10] Glucose is phosphorylated in the very first step of this ten-reaction pathway in cellular respiration, 
which produces a net of 2 ATP. 
ANSWER:  
glycolysis 
 [or  
Embden-Meyerhof 
 pathway; or  
Entner-Doudoroff 
 pathway] 
020-12-59-16220  
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  11 of 12 
21. Answer the following about aerial warfare in World War I, for 10 points each. 
[10] This German flying ace was credited with 80 combat air victories during the war before he was 
ultimately shot down in combat with Canadian flyer Arthur \"Roy\" Brown. Give either his real name or his 
colorful nickname. 
ANSWER: Manfred Albrecht Freiherr von  
Richthofen 
 [or  
Red Baron 
; or Der  
Rote Baron 
; or  
rote 
Freiherr 
; or  
rote Kampfflieger 
] 
[10] The Red Baron was killed while flying a distinctive red colored triplane produced by this Dutchman's 
namesake aircraft manufacturing company, which moved to the Netherlands in 1919. Knute Rockne died 
when one of this man's airplanes crashed in 1931. 
ANSWER: Anthony Herman Gerard  
Fokker 
[10] In 1999, this British medical journal published an article theorizing an old war wound inflicted brain 
damage on the Baron, making him act erratically in his final battle. This journal, the world's oldest medical 
journal, is named after a surgical instrument. 
ANSWER:  
The  Lancet 
052-12-59-16221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 16     Page  12 of 12 
