NASAT 2013 
Round 3 
Tossups 
1. One of these events is the site of the first appearance of Mr. Hurst, his wife, and his sister-in-law, 
Caroline, the latter of whom disparages the possibility of one of these events occurring at Netherfield as a 
punishment, not a pleasure. A mischievous soldier does not attend one of them to avoid Georgiana's 
brother. During one of these events in Meryton, Jane is referred to as “the most beautiful creature” in the 
room by Mr. Bingley, while Jane’s sister is derided as “tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me” 
by Mr. Darcy. For 10 points, name this type of social dance event common in the novels of Jane Austen. 
ANSWER:  
balls 
 in  
Pride and Prejudice 
 [or  
dances 
 before it is read; prompt on  
party 
 or obvious 
equivalents] 
192-13-83-03101 
2. A W897X mutation in the SCN9A sodium channel causes an inability to experience this phenomenon, 
which is carried by the tract of Lissauer. An initial form of this phenomenon is caused by activation of 
A-delta fibers. It's not themoreception, but information about this phenomenon is carried via the 
spinothalamic and trigeminal pathways, and it is depleted via selective prolonged activation of TRPV1 
binding via capsaicin. This sensation is carried by small, unmyelinated C- fibers. A \"referred\" form of this 
phenomenon occurs after insufficient oygen reception at the heart, in the form of angina. For 10 points, 
identify this somatic sensation which is suppressed by endogenous opiates which produce strong analgesia. 
ANSWER:  
nociception 
 [accept  
pain 
 or  
experiencing pain 
] 
189-13-83-03102 
3. According to critics, the high trumpet part in one of these pieces was inspired by the virtuoso playing of 
bandleader Johann Altenburg. A G-F sharp-G motif opens another of these pieces, which is bridged by 
merely two chords forming a half-cadence. Yet another of them is scored for the mysterious \"Fiauti 
d'Echo.\" The fifth of these works was a show-piece for an instrument that Michael Mietke delivered to the 
court of Koethen. The gamba players are given an unusual supporting role in the last of these pieces, which 
is scored for no violins. Fruitlessly composed for a job application, they included a French dedication to 
their eventual namesake. For 10 points, name this set of six pieces composed for a German margrave by 
Johann Sebastian Bach. 
ANSWER:  
Brandenburg Concertos 
 [or  
Brandenburg Concerti 
; or  
Concerts Avec Plusieurs Instruments 
; 
or  
BWV 1046-1051 
; prompt on  
concertos by Bach 
 or  
concerti grosso by Bach 
 and similar answers; 
prompt on  
concertos 
 and  
concerti grosso 
] 
023-13-83-03103 
4. According to a theorem partially proven by Ostrogadsky, this operation yields zero if a vector field is 
divergent free. The determinant of the Jacobian is used as a multiplicative factor when changing variables 
for this operation. One of these operations is equated to a line integral around a simple closed curve by 
Green's theorem. This operation can sometimes be more easily evaluated by transforming to polar, 
cylindrical or spherical coordinates. The order in which this operation is performed can be changed as a 
consequence of Fubini's theorem. For 10 points, identify this operation that involves multiple Riemannian 
sums and can be used to find surface area or volume. 
ANSWER:  
multiple integral 
s [or  
double integral 
s; or  
triple integral 
s; or  
surface integral 
s; or  
flux 
integral 
s; or word forms of \"integral\", such as  
integration 
; prompt on  
integration 
] 
066-13-83-03104 
NASAT 2013     3     Page  1 of 12 
5. This ruler wrote about the observatory and monastery Ulugh Beg Mirza built in a city he ruled, as well as 
the flora in the surrounding land. After praying for his son's illness to be cured, this man became gravely ill 
himself. A mosque this ruler built in Ayodhya was torn apart by angry Hindu rioters in 1992. This man lost 
control of land when he was defeated by Muhammad Shaybani. This ruler's namesake memoirs recount his 
conquests of Samarkand and exile to Afghanistan, which occurred after he was forced out of power at 
Fergana. This ruler defeated Ibrahim Lodi at the First Battle of Panipat and founded an empire that was 
later led by his grandson, Akbar. For 10 points, name this first emperor of the Mughal dynasty. 
ANSWER: Zahir-ud-din Muhammad  
Babur 
140-13-83-03105 
6. This quantity can be calculated as the product of density, free-stream velocity and circulation. A 
condition used to calculate this quantity fixes the rear stagnation point and is the Kutta condition. A 
spinning spherical projectile experiences this force in the Magnus effect. The coefficient for this force is 
typically plotted against the angle of attack. This force can be explained as the result of a pressure 
differential that results from a flow traveling a greater distance and faster speed over the top of a certain 
object, according to Bernoulli's principle. Because this force's direction is perpendicular to oncoming flow, 
it is often contrasted with drag. For 10 points, identify this upward acting force on an aircraft wing. 
ANSWER:  
lift 
 [prompt on mechanical  
aerodynamic 
 force] 
066-13-83-03106 
7. A sonnet inspired by this work notes how \"sorrow, and a care that almost killed, kept me from what I 
may accomplish yet.\" This work's plural titles a collection including \"Lost in Translation\" and the 
apocalyptic  
The Book of Ephraim 
 that won the Pulitzer Prize for James Merrill. The first part of this work 
was recently translated into English by Robert Pinsky. The aforementioned sonnet takes its title from this 
work's first line and begins, \"Half my life is gone, and I have let the years slip from me.\" That sonnet, 
\"Mezzo Cammin,\" was written by the first American to translate this work, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, 
who rendered one of its lines as \"all hope abandon, ye who enter in!\" For 10 points, name this three-part 
epic poem by Dante. 
ANSWER:  
The  Divine Comedy 
 [or  
La  Divina Commedia 
; prompt on  
Inferno 
] 
020-13-83-03107 
8. Ebehard II von der Mark was the builder of a chateau near where this battle took place. During this 
battle, an order to retreat was countermanded by one side's second change of command, which led that side 
to have weakened defenses along the Givonne. Prince George of Saxony attempted to break the defense at 
La Moncelle in this battle, which took place after the Battle of Beaumont. Felix de Wimpffen took control 
from Auguste Ducrot after he was given command of the Army of Chalons by Patrice MacMahon, who 
was injured in this battle. Napoleon III was captured following this battle. For 10 points, name this 1870 
battle that was the decisive engagement of the Franco-Prussian War. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Sedan 
192-13-83-03108 
9. This essay quotes a line about \"a drab of state, a cloth-o'-silver slut\" after using the example of someone 
who steals a plank from a drowning man to refute William Paley. It asks why the majority \"crucif[ies] 
Christ and excommunicate[s] Copernicus and Luther\" after denouncing the \"standing army...militia, jailers, 
constables\" who act \"not as men mainly, but as machines.\" This essay begins by endorsing the idea that 
\"that government is best which governs least\" and recounts its author's imprisonment for refusing to pay a 
poll tax. For 10 points, name this essay by Henry David Thoreau that advocates refusing to support unjust 
governments. 
ANSWER: \" 
Civil Disobedience 
\" 
080-13-83-03109 
NASAT 2013     3     Page  2 of 12 
10. This monster is the namesake of Gyas' ship in the boat race from the fifth book of the  
Aeneid 
. The 
phrase \"For Tinia\" is inscribed on this creature's leg in a bronze Etruscan sculpture of it found near Arezzo. 
King Iobates dispatched a hero to kill this creature, which died after swallowing a lump of molten lead 
from a speartip. It was defeated with the help of a golden bridle obtained from the temple of Athena. This 
fire-breathing monster ravaged the land of Lycia. For 10 points, name this monster with a serpent for a tail, 
a goat on its back, and a lion as a head, which was slain by Bellerophon. 
ANSWER:  
Chimera 
080-13-83-03110 
11. This technique can use the CYANA algorithm for automatic structure assignment. One form on this 
technique requires evolution and mixing phases as well as a Fourier transform to create interpretable data. 
Two dimensional variations of this technique include COSY. Readouts from this technique can be 
complicated by J-coupling, which can be affected by relaxation processes. Tetramethylsilane is used as a 
standard for this technique, whose most common forms include hydrogen-1 and carbon-13. Using a 
phenomenon that is also used in MRIs, this technique measures the chemical shift of a molecule. For 10 
points, name this spectroscopic technique, which uses an applied magnetic field to determine the structure 
of a molecule. 
ANSWER:  
NMR 
 spectroscopy [or  
nuclear magnetic resonance 
 spectroscopy] 
140-13-83-03111 
12. This leader escaped from the top of his party's headquarters via helicopter the day after he gave his final 
speech denouncing a \"minority of troublemakers,\" only for the entire crowd to boo him. Paul Goma was a 
dissident opposing this man's regime. During his time in power, weak children were brought to an 
orphanage at Cighid compared to death camps. Women who gave birth to ten children were given the title 
\"heroine mothers.\" Ion Pacepa defected from the Securitate during the rule of this man, who succeeded 
Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej and made proposals influenced by Kim Il Sung and Mao called the July Theses. 
For 10 points, name this man who was executed in 1989 with his wife Elena after leading a brutally 
repressive regime in Romania. 
ANSWER: Nicolae  
Ceausescu 
192-13-83-03112 
13. The protagonist of this novel claims that marriage “drinks up all of our power of giving” love and that 
it “stays with us like a murder.” A banker in this novel used to be a pawnbroker selling stolen goods, a fact 
he tries to cover up by contributing to the death of Sir John Raffles. That banker is Nicholas Bulstrode. The 
protagonist’s husband dies before he can complete  
The Key to All Mythologies 
. In this novel, the mayor’s 
daughter, Rosamond Vincy, is attracted to the doctor, Tertius Lydgate. This novel ends with the protagonist 
announcing she will marry Will Ladislaw. For 10 points, name this George Eliot novel about Dorothea 
Brooke set in the title town. 
ANSWER:  
Middlemarch : A Study of Provincial Life 
052-13-83-03113 
14. Sylvanus Morley excavated the “Complex of a Thousand Columns” in this country, making careful 
sketches of the sites calendrical inscriptions. Alfonso Caso discovered monumental carvings of contorted 
men or “danzantes” while excavating Monte Albán here. That site contains at least one ball court, and ball 
courts are also present at this country's site of Chichen Itza. This country's Museum of Anthropology 
contains an artifact most anthropologists now believe to be not a calendar but an altar, the Stone of the Sun. 
For 10 points, name this country once home to the Maya and Aztecs. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
121-13-83-03114 
NASAT 2013     3     Page  3 of 12 
15. One of this man's operas first premiered in the United States along with the world premiere of Menotti's 
Amelia Goes to the Ball. 
. This composer wrote \"Paysandu,\" one of twelve dances for piano dedicated to 
Paul Claudel, who collaborated with this man on an opera titled  
Christophe Colomb 
. One of this man's 
works, subtitled \"The Nothing-Doing Bar,\" is named after a Brazilian tango. Fernand Leger designed the 
set and costumes for the 1923 introduction of one of this man's works performed by the Ballet Suedois; that 
work, with sections called \"The Desire of Man and Woman\" and \"The Man and Woman Kiss,\" was 
inspired by jazz and African folk myth. For 10 points, name this member of Les Six who composed  
The Ox 
on the Roof 
 and  
The Creation of the World 
. 
ANSWER: Darius  
Milhaud 
189-13-83-03115 
16. This good led Hadrian to change the official symbol of Hispania to reflect its production along the Ebro 
River. The trade in this substance resulted in a pile of broken containers a hundred meters high at Monte 
Testaccio in Rome. An ancient-world tool called the strigil was used to remove this substance. The winner 
of the Panatheneaic Games obtained a lot of this substance as a reward, and a machine to create it in 
Miletus made the poor philosopher Thales rich. This good, a product of a gift from Athena, was, like wine, 
extracted at villas with screw-presses and stored in amphorae. For 10 points, name this liquid used in 
classical antiquity for washing and lighting, a plant product later used for seasoning food. 
ANSWER:  
olive oil 
 [prompt on  
oil 
; prompt on  
olive branch 
] 
104-13-83-03116 
17. Migmatites found in areas where this process occurred include core complexes and gneiss domes. Some 
types of this process can create nappes. The Sevier, Nevadan and Laramide instances of this process are 
grouped under the Cordilleran. The results of this process are distinguished from the process that creates 
cratons. The formation of a foreland basin and fold and thrust belts often accompanies this process. This 
process can result from subduction or collision with an island arc or another continent. For 10 points, 
identify this creation of mountain belts by tectonic activity. 
ANSWER:  
orogeny 
 [or  
orogenesis 
; prompt on  
mountain formation 
 or reasonable equivalents] 
066-13-83-03117 
18. In one of this artist's drawings, a girl watches from a window as the 112 ark crashes into her house. This 
artist painted a monochromatic sad face covered with a black X in reaction to being singled out as a Jew 
and fired from his job as a teacher at Dusseldorf Academy. This painter of  
Miraculous Landing 
 and  
Struck 
From the List 
 gave up painting with models after a life-changing trip to Tunisia. He described painting as 
taking \"an active line on a walk\" in a pile of lecture notes that Walter Gropius assembled into the  
Pedagogical Sketchbook 
. Against a blue background, a wire connects to a hand-crank and shackles several 
birds in his masterpiece. For 10 points, name this Swiss artist who painted  
Twittering Machine 
. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Klee 
192-13-83-03118 
19. The commander of this operation was the subject of the film  
Above and Beyond 
 and was chosen over 
Frank Armstrong and Roscoe Wilson.  
The Great Artiste 
 and  
Straight Flush 
 were parts of the 509th 
Composite Group that carired out this operation. George Marquadt commanded  
Necessary Evil 
 during this 
event, which missed the Aioi Bridge and instead hit the Shima Surgical Clinic. This mission's perpetrators 
left from Tinian in the Marianas. This operation's leader, Paul Tibbets, dropped \"Little Boy\" from the  
Enola 
Gay 
. For 10 points, name this event, the first utilization of the products of the Manhattan Project. 
ANSWER:  
bombing of Hiroshima 
 [or  
Special Mission 13 
; accept synonyms for \"bombing of\" such as  
attack on 
; prompt on atomic  
bombing of Japan 
 until \"first\" is read] 
192-13-83-03119 
NASAT 2013     3     Page  4 of 12 
20. In one work, the creator of this idea said that it could not be directly extended to seeing and walking. In 
another work, the description of this idea is followed by the author discussing perfections he knows he does 
not have but that must be held by someone. This phrase was called the most certain thing to occur to 
someone who philosophizes in an orderly fashion in a list appearing in its creator's  
Principles of 
Philosophy. 
 This phrase was considered the first principle by its creator after he arrived at it by using his 
system of methodic doubt. This phrase was originally written in French when it appeared in the  
Discourse 
on Method 
. For 10 points, give this phrase that served as the most basic assumption of Rene Descartes. 
ANSWER:  
I think, therefore I am 
 [accept alternate phrasings; or  
cogito, ergo sum 
; or  
je pense, donc je 
suis 
] 
023-13-83-03120 
21. One of the highest points in this city, Sparrow Hills, is located near the Luzhniki Stadium. The main 
building of the state university in this city, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are part of a complex 
known as the “Seven Sisters” built from 1947 to 1953. During a modernization period, it demolished such 
landmarks as the Sukharev Tower. It is home to an amusement park that once displayed mock-ups from the 
Buran space shuttle program. This city’s Cathedral of Christ the Saviour is the tallest Orthodox Christian 
church in the world, although the onion-domed St. Basil’s Cathedral is also found here. For 10 points, 
name this city, the site of Red Square and the Kremlin. 
ANSWER:  
Moscow 
052-13-83-03121 
22. In a scene in this novel, a character thinks about the varying altitudes of ginkgo leaves while his 
instructor watches him have sex with his instructor's wife. Another scene in this novel ends with a youth in 
a straw hat declaring, \"I am Faustino Higueras. Defend yourself.\" The protagonist of this novel meets with 
professor Uzzi Tuzzi, and the Cimmerian language features prominently in this novel. The diary of Ermes 
Marana forms part of this novel, whose protagonist loves Ludmilla. This novel alternates between the first 
chapters of fiction novels and a second-person narrative. For 10 points, identify this novel by Italo Calvino. 
ANSWER:  
If on a winter's night a traveler 
 [or  
Se Una Notte d'Inverno un Viaggiatore 
] 
189-13-83-03122 
23. Bosley Crowther's opposition to this film led to his replacement by Renata Adler as film critic for the  
New York Times 
. Theodora van Runkle's costume design for one character in this film included a beret set 
at a rakish angle and a separate skirt and blouse combination. After displaying black and white credits over 
thirty-two sepia tinted photographs, this film opens with an extreme close-up of a woman's lips as she 
applies lipstick. One character in this film is told that he'd \"best keep running.\" Its title characters take a 
picture of themselves with Frank Hamer, long before being ambushed by Texas Rangers and killed in a 
fusillade of gunfire. For 10 points, identify this Arthur Penn film about the title duo of bank robbers. 
ANSWER:  
Bonnie and Clyde 
066-13-83-03123 
NASAT 2013     3     Page  5 of 12 
NASAT 2013 
Round 3 
Bonuses 
1. This man served under Zakhar Chernyshov during the Seven Years' War. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this leader of a 1773 to 1775 rebellion who proclaimed a government opposed to serfdom while 
pretending to be Peter III. 
ANSWER: Yemelyan Ivanovich  
Pugachev 
[10] Pugachev's Rebellion occurred during the reign of this Russian empress, whose favorites included 
Grigory Potemkin. 
ANSWER:  
Catherine the Great 
 [or  
Catherine II 
; or  
Yekaterina Alekseyevna 
; or  
Yekaterina Velikaya 
; 
or  
Sophie Friederike Auguste 
; prompt on  
Catherine 
] 
[10] Pugachev was forced to escape across the Volga after being defeated by Ivan Michelson in battles 
around this city in 1774, which then led to the end of the rebellion. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Kazan 
192-13-83-03201  
2. This property occurs in helium II cooled to less than approximately 2.17 Kelvins, which is the lambda 
point. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this property of certain materials that have zero viscosity. 
ANSWER:  
superfluidity 
 [or word forms] 
[10] This Soviet physicist won a Nobel for developing a theory that explained the superfluidity of helium II 
below the lambda point. He also names a phenomenological model of superconductivity with Vitaly 
Ginzburg. 
ANSWER: Lev Davidovich  
Landau 
[10] Independently of von Neumann, Landau developed this operator used to describe mixed states in 
quantum systems. The expectation value of an observable in a state A is equal to the trace of this operator 
of A. 
ANSWER:  
density matrix 
 [or  
density operator 
; or  
statistical operator 
] 
066-13-83-03202  
3. This man gave a 12 hour filibuster in March 2013 to protest the administration’s use of drones. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this senator from Kentucky and Tea Party favorite. He is the son of a Texas congressman and 
frequent Presidential candidate who retired in 2013. 
ANSWER: Randal Howard “Rand”  
Paul 
[10] Paul was blocking voting regarding the nomination of this man as the Director of the CIA. This man 
took office in March. 
ANSWER: John Owen  
Brennan 
[10] This Senator has blasted January 2013 filibuster reform as inefficient. In December 2010, he gave an 
all-day “Tax Cut filibuster\" which prompted progressives to suggest he run for president. 
ANSWER: Bernard “Bernie”  
Sanders 
052-13-83-03203  
NASAT 2013     3     Page  6 of 12 
4. The speaker of this poem hears the lapping of water \"in the deep heart's core.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem in which the speaker desires to build a small cabin \"of clay and wattles made\" at the 
title location. It begins, \"I will arise and go now.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Lake Isle of Innisfree 
\" 
[10] \"The Lake Isle of Innisfree\" was written by this Irish poet who described \"a vast image out of  
Spiritus 
Mundi 
\" in \"The Second Coming.\" 
ANSWER: William Butler  
Yeats 
[10] In this poem, Yeats's recollection of a folk song leads him to conclude, \"if I triumph I must make men 
mad.\" It begins with him lamenting \"this caricature, decrepit age that has been tied to me as to a dog's tail.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Tower 
\" 
192-13-83-03204  
5. By 1946, this man had the mental capacity of a 12-year-old thanks to neurosyphilis effects. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this notorious gangster nicknamed \"Scarface\" who led the Chicago Outfit, but who was 
eventually busted on federal charges of tax evasion. 
ANSWER: Al  
Capone 
 [or Alphonse Gabriel  
Capone 
] 
[10] Capone ordered the Saint Valentine's Day Massacre against the North Side gang led by this man, a 
gangster nicknamed \"Bugs.\" 
ANSWER: George Clarence  
Moran 
 [or Adelard  
Cunin 
] 
[10] Much of Capone's liquor came via the gangs of this city, whose Purple Gang was involved in causing 
the massacre. This city's underworld was wracked by the Cleaners and Dyers War and the Miraflores 
Massacre in the 1920s. 
ANSWER:  
Detroit 
052-13-83-03205  
6. This poem describes a \"conscientious object-or\" whose \"warmest heart recoiled at war,\" for which he is 
thrown into a dungeon to die. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem whose title character was \"more brave than me\" and \"more blond than you.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
i sing of Olaf glad and big 
\" 
[10] \"i sing of Olaf glad and big\" is a poem by this American who also wrote  
The Enormous Room 
 and 
\"anyone lived in a pretty how town.\" 
ANSWER: E. E.  
Cummings 
[10] At the end of Cummings's poem \"since feeling is first,\" he notes that \"life's not a paragraph\" and that 
death is not this punctuation mark. 
ANSWER:  
parenthesis 
192-13-83-03206  
7. One part of this song addresses fate as being \"monstrous and empty\" and a \"whirling wheel.\" For 10 
points each: 
[10] Identify this song in which light drums and a whispering choir develop into a crescendo of drums and 
string and horn notes, all of which occurs in less than three minutes. 
ANSWER: \" 
O Fortuna 
\" [or \" 
O Fortune 
\"] 
[10] \"O Fortuna\" is one of the medieval songs set to music in this Carl Orff cantata, whose other 
movements include \"In the Tavern\" and \"The Court of Love.\" 
ANSWER:  
Carmina Burana 
 [or  
Songs of Beuern 
] 
[10] In this other song from  
Carmina Burana 
, the male singer elevates his mistress to the level of the 
medieval beauty Blancheflor, then Helen of Troy, and finally Venus herself. 
ANSWER: \" 
Ave, formosissima 
\" [or \" 
Hail, most beautiful one 
\"] 
189-13-83-03207  
NASAT 2013     3     Page  7 of 12 
8. Two of this man's children were named \"Dot\" and \"Dash\". For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this inventor who pioneered the phonograph and the motion picture camera. A prolific inventor, 
he was known as the \"Wizard of Menlo Park\". 
ANSWER: Thomas Alva  
Edison 
[10] Edison's promotion of direct current led him to wage the \"war of currents\" against this man, a 
promoter of alternating current. He had earlier invented the railway air brake. 
ANSWER: George  
Westinghouse 
, Jr. 
[10] Edison notoriously conducted the electrocution of this circus elephant in 1903, after it had killed three 
men, including one of its abusive trainers. 
ANSWER:  
Topsy 
052-13-83-03208  
9. Answer the following about higher education in the United States, for 10 points each. 
[10] Most students applying take one of the two major standardized tests, either the ACT or this one which 
is administered by the College Board. 
ANSWER:  
SAT 
 [or  
Scholastic Aptitude Test 
; or  
Scholastic Assessment Test 
] 
[10] This Washington D.C.-based think tank has surveyed Americans’ feelings on college admissions. Its 
other projects include a namesake “Forum on Religion and Public Life” and a “Global Attitudes Project.” 
ANSWER:  
Pew 
 Research Center 
[10] This informal process is frequently used by community colleges to convince underachieving students 
to readjust expectations. Its name is taken from an Erving Goffman essay describing how con men work to 
calm down or console their victims after they are scammed. 
ANSWER:  
cooling 
 out [accept word forms] 
052-13-83-03209  
10. It was first discovered in a petri dish, where the namesake contaminant fungus created an area of 
inhibition on a petri dish that prevented the growth of bacteria. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this antibiotic discovered by Alexander Fleming. Knowledge of its structure, decoded by 
Dorothy Hodgkin, allowed for synthesis of similar compounds such as amoxicillin. 
ANSWER:  
penicillin 
[10] Penicillin is this type of antibiotic, which are named for the cyclic amide functional group they all 
have in their structure. They inhibit cell wall synthesis in susceptible bacteria. 
ANSWER:  
beta-lactam 
s 
[10] Resistance to beta-lactams can be seen in this strain of  
Staphylococcus aureus 
, which is a problem in 
hospitals as it can cause toxic shock syndrome after invasion of an open wound. It can usually be treated 
with vancomycin. 
ANSWER:  
MRSA 
 [or  
methicillin-resistant  taphylococcus aureus S 
] 
140-13-83-03210  
NASAT 2013     3     Page  8 of 12 
11. The protagonist of this novel enters into a partnership with Recktall Brown, who sells forged artworks. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this work about Wyatt Gwyon, who plans to become a minister but changes his mind and turns 
to painting, eventually working as a restoration manager in Spain. 
ANSWER:  
The  Recognitions 
[10] This postmodern author of  
The Recognitions 
 also wrote  
JR 
 and  
Carpenter's Gothic. 
ANSWER: William  
Gaddis 
[10]  
The Recognitions 
 was one of the favorite novels of this contemporary American author who wrote 
about the Incandenza family in  
Infinite Jest. 
ANSWER: David Foster  
Wallace 
192-13-83-03211  
12. A yellow and black floral pattern decorates the bed situated in the center of this painting, a selection of 
which was included in its artist's  
Self-Portrait with a Hat 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting in which a dark-skinned girl lies naked on her belly, face turned toward the viewer, 
while a greenish female shade in a black shawl stands against a pillar to the left. 
ANSWER:  
The  Spirit of the Dead Keep Watch 
 [or  
Spirit of the Dead Watching 
; or  
Manao tupapau 
] 
[10] This painter of  
The Spirit of the Dead Keep Watch 
 moved to Tahiti in 1891 to escape European 
civilization. 
ANSWER: Eugene Henri Paul  
Gauguin 
[10] Gauguin swore that he would commit suicide upon the completion of this painting, which was meant 
to be read from right to left and includes three figure groups, each illustrating one of the title inquiries. 
ANSWER:  
Where Do We Come From? What Are We? Where Are We Going? 
 [or  
D'où Venons Nous? 
Que Sommes Nous? Où Allons Nous 
] 
190-13-83-03212  
13. A dog in this novel is said to have no names and every name. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Joanna Carda's actions wreak havoc around the world by causing the Iberian 
Peninsula to break off from the rest of Europe. 
ANSWER:  
The  Stone Raft 
 [or  
A  Jangada de Pedra 
] 
[10]  
The Stone Raft 
 was written by this Portuguese author of  
Blindness 
 who described the title character's 
birth in a cave, rather than a manger, in  
The Gospel According to Jesus Christ. 
ANSWER: Jose  
Saramago 
[10] This Saramago novel follows a bureaucrat named Senhor Jose who works in the Central Ministry of 
Births, Marriages, and Deaths. 
ANSWER:  
All the Names 
 [or  
Todos os Nomes 
] 
192-13-83-03213  
NASAT 2013     3     Page  9 of 12 
14. This man gained his highest title after defeating his uncle Koppany at an engagement near Veszprem. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this member of the Arpad dynasty who claimed rule over the Magyar people. He was canonized 
along with his son, Emeric. 
ANSWER: Saint  
Stephen I 
 [prompt on  
Stephen 
] 
[10] Stephen I is generally recognized as the founder of this European kingdom. Invading forces from this 
modern country were defeated by Otto the Great in the Battle of Lechfeld. 
ANSWER:  
Hungary 
 [or  
Magyarorszag 
] 
[10] The Arpad dynasty ended with the death of the third Hungarian king by this name. The first king of 
this name attempted to crown his young son Solomon as his successor, prompting a revolt by his brother, 
Bela the Champion. 
ANSWER:  
Andrew 
 [or  
Endre 
; or  
Andras 
] 
192-13-83-03214  
15. A history of this region was written by Marjory Stoneman Douglas. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these wetlands that dominate the southern portion of Florida. 
ANSWER:  
Everglades 
[10] This large lake in the Everglades is the second largest freshwater lake entirely within the lower 48 
states. Half the size of Rhode Island, it has been frequently devastated by Florida hurricanes. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Okeechobee 
[10] This island chain off the coast of southwest Florida is located between Cape Romano and the mouth of 
Lostman’s River. Chokoloskee Island is the largest of this chain, which despite its name only numbers in 
the hundreds. 
ANSWER:  
Ten Thousand 
 Islands 
052-13-83-03215  
16. Any trajectory on one of these things stays on it forever and any trajectory sufficiently close to it must 
asymptotically approach some trajectory in it. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify these closed loops in phase space. 
ANSWER:  
limit cycle 
 [or  
periodic orbit 
] 
[10] Limit cycles arise in the study of this type of system, whose state changes with time. They are usually 
nonlinear and are described by a differential equation when continuous in time. 
ANSWER:  
dynamical 
 system 
[10] This branch of mathematics studies dynamical systems with sensitive dependence on initial conditions, 
which is commonly known as the butterfly effect. 
ANSWER:  
chaos 
 theory [or word forms] 
066-13-83-03216  
NASAT 2013     3     Page  10 of 12 
17. After college graduation, this man served as the principal and janitor for a one-room school he dubbed 
the Batesburg Institute. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this behaviorist psychologist who conducted an experiment in which he made a child known as 
Little Albert develop a phobia of a white rat. 
ANSWER: John Broadus  
Watson 
[10] Watson was assisted in the Little Albert experiment by this grad student assistant. Watson later left 
Johns Hopkins after having an affair with this woman, whom he married shortly after. 
ANSWER: Rosalie  
Rayner 
[10] Martin Seligman challenged some theories of behaviorism by coming up with this theory, which he 
developed after a series of experiments involving giving dogs electric shocks. 
ANSWER:  
learned helplessness 
052-13-83-03217  
18. Answer the following on sigma bonds and pi bonds. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give the number of pi bonds present in a triple bond. 
ANSWER:  
two 
[10] Pi bonds are formed from the overlap of these chemical entities. They must be oriented perpendicular 
to the sigma bond and parallel to one another in order for a pi bond to form. 
ANSWER:  
p-orbital 
s [prompt on  
orbital 
s] 
[10] This phenomenon, studied in both organic and inorganic chemistry, is the interaction of a sigma bond 
with an adjacent empty p-orbital, stabilizing the system. It was introduced by Robert Mulliken. 
ANSWER:  
hyperconjugation 
 [or  
hyperconjugated system 
; prompt on  
conjugation 
 of orbitals] 
189-13-83-03218  
19. This giant challenged three gods to race against the fastest runner, eat faster than the quickest eater, and 
to drink an entire horn of water while those gods visited his castle. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this giant, who revealed after the contests that they had all been magical illusions, and that 
Thialfi, thought to have raced against Hugi, was racing against thought. 
ANSWER:  
Utgard-Loki 
 [or  
Skrymir 
; do not accept or prompt on partial answers] 
[10] Utgard-Loki also revealed that this god had been drinking from the ocean, and that the old woman this 
god later wrestled was, in fact, old age. He was the Norse god of thunder. 
ANSWER:  
Thor 
[10] Utgard-Loki initially frightens Thor and his travelling companions by telling them that the spacious 
cave they took shelter in was, in fact, merely this object. 
ANSWER: Utgard-Loki's  
glove 
 [or Skrymir's  
glove 
] 
140-13-83-03219  
NASAT 2013     3     Page  11 of 12 
20. This ruler was deserted by his troops and captured at the Battle of Leipzig, where he fought on 
Napoleon's side. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this member of the House of Wettin who served as the first king of Saxony. He shares his royal 
name with the final king of Saxony, who abdicated in 1918. 
ANSWER:  
Frederick Augustus I 
 [or  
Elector Frederick Augustus III 
 of Saxony; prompt on  
Frederick 
Augustus 
] 
[10]The capital of the Free State of Saxony was this city, known as the \"Florence on the Elbe.\" It was 
firebombed in February 1945. 
ANSWER:  
Dresden 
[10] This October 1806 victory for Napoleon had earlier subjugated Prussia to the French. Fought at two 
different locations, this battle was reportedly raging while Hegel compiled one of his major works. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Jena 
-Auerstaedt 
052-13-83-03220  
21. Jean Charles de Menezes was shot to death in this city in 2005. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this European city rocked by the July 7, 2005, terror bombings, most of which targeted its 
namesake \"Underground\" system of public transportation. 
ANSWER:  
London 
[10] The bombings were the deadliest act of terror in the United Kingdom since the December 1988 
bombing of this company's Flight 103, which crashed in Lockerbie. 
ANSWER:  
Pan Am 
erican World Airways 
[10] The country that reportedly ordered the Lockerbie bombing was also accused of bombing one of these 
structures in 1986 in West Berlin, killing three people. 
ANSWER:  
disco 
theque [or night 
club 
] 
052-13-83-03221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     3     Page  12 of 12 
