2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 1 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
Four Quarter Set  
Round 6  
First Quarter:  
Ten Tossups 
1. The D’Entrecasteaux Channel separates this state from Bruny Island while the Mercury Passage lies  
between it and Maria Island. Named after its first Chief Justice and created by damming up the  
Serpentine River, its largest body of water is Lake Pedder while its longest rivers include the Huon,  
Tamar and Derwent. Large cities include Burnie, Devonport and Launceston while its highest point is at  
Mount Ossa. Originally named Van Diemen’s Land, for 10 points, name this Australian state with capital  
at Hobart, an island known for its namesake “devil.”  
ANSWER:  Tasmania 
3. One of this band’s songs begins and ends with the lines 4If the sun refused to shine, I would still be  
loving you.5When mountains crumble to the sea, there will still be you and me.4 In addition to the  
songs 4No Quarter4 and 4Thank You,4 this band recorded the albums  In Through the Out Door Physical  ,  
Graffiti , and  Houses of the Holy . They consisted of John Bonham on drums, John Paul Jones on bass  
guitar, Robert Plant on vocals, and Jimmy Page on guitar. For 10 points, name this rock group of the  
songs “Kashmir” and 4Stairway to Heaven.4  
ANSWER:  Led Zeppelin  
:. Planck’s constant times the frequency of a photon is equal to the value of this quantity for electrons  
plus the work function, according to the photoelectric effect. For ideal gases, it is equal to three halves  
times Boltzmann’s constant times temperature. This quantity is not conserved in inelastic collisions,  
and can be written as momentum squared over 3 times mass. For 10 points, identify this quantity equal  
to one half times mass times velocity squared, which is possessed by an object by virtue of its motion.  
ANSWER:  kinetic energy 
 [prompt on  energy ]  
@. This polity was unified when the Tara Confederation won the Battle of Clontarf. In the seventeenth  
century, it was the site of the Battle of Drogheda ADROHBduhC and the Battle of the Boyne. Its later  
leaders included Daniel ODConnell and Charles Parnell, and it finally gained selfBgovernment after the  
passage of the Home Rule Act. The site of the Ulster Rebellion, this country is home to the political  
parties Fianna Fail and Sinn Fein. For 10 points, name this country which suffered a terrible potato  
famine.  
ANSWER:  Ireland 
F. This man argued that creation was a special type of participating in society in “On the Origins of the  
Work of Art,” found in  Poetry, Language, and Thought . Like Max Weber, he gave a noted address at  
Freiburg, though his was called “What is MetaphysicsG” The most famous work of this teacher of  
Hannah Arendt argued that the three fundamental human features are factuality, existentiality, and  
fallenness. The author who articulated his idea of sein and dasein, for 10 points, name this NaziB 
sympathizing philosopher who wrote  Being and Time .  
ANSWER: Martin  Heidegger 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 2 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
H. This novelDs protagonist marries Valeria, only for her to leave him for a Russian cab driver. Later, he  
marries his landlady, after whose death her daughter enrolls at Beardsley and gets a role in a play along  
with her friend Mona called  The Enchanted Hunters , a name shared by an inn visited earlier in the  
book. The play was written by Clare Quilty, a doppelganger to the protagonist, who still remembers  
fondly his boyhood love Annabel Leigh. For 10 points, name the travel narrative about Dolores Haze  
and Humbert Humbert, written by Vladimir Nabokov.  
ANSWER:  Lolita 
I. Functional groups equivalent to small cyclic ones may be formed from alkenes in a reaction named  
for Sharpless. Typical examples are excellent solvents, commonly used for Jrignard reagents because  
they are aprotic. One cyclic type of these is commonly used to dissolve cations in nonpolar solvent, the  
crown type, and the most common synthesis of them is named for Williamson. For 10 points, identify  
this class of organic compounds whose diethyl example was a common anesthetic.    
ANSWER:  ether 
s  
K. The first fighting in this battle broke out when men in Henry Heth’s division encountered William  
Jamble’s brigade along Chambersburg Pike. Jamble was in Buford’s division of dismounted cavalry  
who secured high ground at Seminary Ridge. The second day of this battle saw the bayonet charge of  
Chamberlain’s Twentieth Maine at Little Round Top, and the third day saw the disastrous Pickett’s  
charge. For 10 points name this Pennsylvania Civil War battle, often considered the turning point in the  
war.  
ANSWER: Battle of  Gettysburg 
L. The protagonistDs brother John, originally a carpenter, became a businessman and politician, while  
his sister has become a prostitute and alcohol dealer. Beginning when the protagonist receives a  
telegram from Theophilus Msimangu imploring him to help his sister Jertrude, the protagonist also  
meets an activist for racial justice, the father of the man the protagonistDs son murdered, named Arthur  
Jarvis. For 10 points, identify this novel chronicling Stephen KumaloDs search for his son Absalom in  
Johannesburg, South Africa, written by Alan Paton.  
ANSWER:  Cry, the Beloved Country  
10. A viola pizzicato part is commonly added in performances of this piece, and a variation of it was  
used when the “three boys” escort Tamino and Papageno in  The Magic Flute . This work is actually a  
passacaglia, and it draws from several contemporary variations on  La Folia.  Its composer also wrote the  
“Hexachordum Apollinis” and originally paired this work with a gigue. Each part that is not the continuo  
enters playing a D major scale from F sharp down to A and up to D. For 10 points, name this piece of  
music by Johann Pachelbel.  
ANSWER: Pachelbel’s  Canon 
 [or  Canon in D M or  Canon  and Gigue  in D  major for three Violins and Basso  
Continuo ] 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 3 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
Four Quarter Set  
Round 6  
Second Quarter:  
Ten Tossups  
with Bonuses 
1. Jiorgio Vasari noted that “the Marforio at Rome” is not “equal to it in any respect”, and earlier  
recalled that its artist pretended to change the nose, heeding a request by Piero Soderini. A wooden  
framework and rope suspension for it were created by Jiuliano da san Jallo and his brother, and it was  
transported to the Piazza della Signoria. Rossellino was briefly contracted to take it up where Duccio  
had left, and it drew on the  contrapposto  of Jreek art. For 10 points, name this marble sculpture in  
Florence by Michelangelo of a figure about to kill Joliath.  
ANSWER: Michelangelo’s  David 
BONUS. The average form of this quantity intersects the marginal cost curve at its minimum. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Identify this quantity, the difference between fixed costs and total costs  
ANSWER:  variable 
 costs  
[10] In economics, this term refers to a situation of zero profit. It also describes goods whose demand  
increases when income increase, as opposed to inferior goods.  
ANSWER:  normal 
 profit [or  normal  goods]  
3. He lived in exile in New Orleans from 1KF: to 1KFF, and in 1KFI he was selected to preside over the  
Supreme Court by Ignocio Comonfort. His namesake law abolished special courts for the clergy and  
military, and he was a chief author of the Plan of Ayutla. He died while suppressing a revolt of Porfirio  
Diaz, and he is the namesake of El Paso’s sister city across the Rio Jrande. For 10 points, name this  
Indian president of Mexico, who fought the occupation of Emperor Maximilian.  
ANSWER: Benito  Juarez  
BONUS. He is KI going on KK in  The Prairie , but his age is somewhat indeterminate in any of the other  
books in which he appears. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this best friend of Chingachgook and hero of five  Leatherstocking Tales .  
ANSWER:  Natty 
  Bumppo  [accept either or both names]  
[10] Name the creator of Natty Bumppo and the author of the  Leatherstocking Tales , which includes  
The Last of the Mohicans .  
ANSWER: James Fenimore  Cooper 
:. The protagonist stays with her aunt and uncle, the Jardiners, in London after rejecting a proposal  
from the pompous William Collins, who ends up marrying her best friend Charlotte Lucas. The soldier  
Jeorge Wickham is revealed as a liar when he elopes with the protagonist’s sister Lydia, and another of  
the protagonist’s sisters, Jane, marries Mr. Bingley. For 10 points name this novel in which Elizabeth  
Bennet marries Fitzwilliam Darcy, a work of Jane Austen.  
ANSWER:  Pride and Prejudice 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 4 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
BONUS. For 10 points each, name these Soviet leaders.  
[10] This dictator during World War II executed millions in his purges and sent millions more to the  
labor camp system known as the gulag.  
ANSWER: Joseph  Stalin  
[accept Ioseb Besarionis dze  Jughashvili ]  
[10] This successor to Stalin began deBStalinization during the “Secret Speech,” presided over the thaw,  
initiated the Cuban missile crisis, and supposedly banged his shoe during a debate.  
ANSWER: Nikita Sergeyevich  Khrushchev 
@. Although six genes encode this protein in humans, some plants have over sixty genes for it. This  
protein exhibits a phenomenon known as treadmilling, in which J monomers attach to the plus end  
and detach from the minus end of its F filament. The most abundant intracellular protein in eukaryotic  
cells, this protein is absent in the H zone of the sarcomere. For 10 points, name this protein that slides  
along myosin to produce muscle contraction.  
ANSWER:  actin  
BONUS. It contains Harney Peak, the highest point east of the Rockies in the U.S. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this range, whose other landmarks include the Crazy Horse Memorial and Mount Rushmore.  
ANSWER: the  Black Hills 
 [or  Paha Sapa ]  
[10] The Black Hills are primarily located in this state, which shares lakes Oahe and Lewis and Clark with  
its northern and southern neighbors, respectively.   
ANSWER:  South Dakota  
F. This man introduced the Reducing Americans’ Vulnerability to Ecstasy Act as chairman of the  
International Narcotics Control Caucus. He was twice chair of the Foreign Relations Committee after  
being disgraced in 1LKK for plagiarizing a British politician’s speeches. This man accused Rudy Jiuliani  
of mentioning “a noun, a verb, and L511” in every sentence, and he originally dropped out of the 300K  
Presidential race after placing fifth in the Iowa caucus. For 10 points, identify this senior senator of  
Delaware, the current Vice President of the United States.  
ANSWER: Joseph Robinette “Joe”  Biden 
, Jr.  
BONUS. His works were catalogued by Anthony van Hoboken, and he wrote the “Theresienmesse,” a  
mass named for Maria Theresa. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this composer of the “Jypsy” trio, not to mention symphonies like  Farewell  and  
Philosopher .  
ANSWER: Joseph  Haydn  
[10] In Jerman, this Haydn symphony is referred to as “with the kettledrum stroke,” which is the loud  
chord that gives it its nickname, coming suddenly in the middle of the second movement.  
ANSWER: “ Surprise 
” symphony [or Symphony no.  94  in J majorM or  oboken  H 1/94 ]  
H. One period in this country’s history saw the formation of the Bar Confederation and the later War in  
the Defense of the Constitution to restore home rule. During the same time period, the Four Year Sejm  
ASAMEC was opposed by the Targowica Confederation. Later in this nation’s history, the Sanacja party  
was founded to fight corruption, and a trade union was founded in its Lenin Shipyards, called Solidarity.  
For 10 points, name this oftBpartitioned European country whose leaders have included Jozef Pilsudski,  
Lech Walesa and Casimir Pulaski.  
ANSWER: Republic of  Poland  
[ Rzeczpospolita  Polska 
] 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 5 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
BONUS. Name these search algorithms, for 10 points each.  
[10] This simple search technique locates an element in a sorted list by comparing the target element  
to the middle element of the list, and recursing on half of the list until the element is found.  
ANSWER:  binary 
 search  
[10] This pathfinding algorithm, named for the author of 4JO TO Statement Considered Harmful4, finds  
the shortest path between two nodes in a graph without negative edge costs.  
ANSWER:  Dijkstra*s 
 algorithm  
I. A Van Deemter plot is used to determine the minimum theoretical plate height necessary to perform  
this procedure. One type of this procedure often uses agarose as an “affinity matrix”, while proteins are  
separated by charge in the “ion exchange” variety of it. Forensic analysis of gel pens is one application  
of the “highBperformanceBliquid” type of this procedure, which also comes in thinBlayer, gas, and paper  
varieties. For 10 points, name this lab technique in which a mobile phase passes through a stationary  
phase, from the Jreek for “color writing.”  
ANSWER:  chromatography 
 [accept  column chromatography  before “affinity”]  
BONUS. He was sent to King Iobates to be slain, but Iobates let him marry his daughter instead. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this Jreek hero slew the Chimera.  
ANSWER:  Bellerophon 
[10] This flying horse and Chrysaor were the offspring of Poseidon and Medusa. In most versions,  
Bellerophon rode him when he fought the Chimera.  
ANSWER:  Pegasus  
K. In this novel, the tenor Ralph Simmons is infuriated by an anecdote about an audience throwing six  
benches. The protagonist is assured that love “is a religious feeling” while playing billiards with the  
ninetyBfourByearBold Count Jreffi, and earlier is injured by a mortar shell while handing out macaroni.  
The protagonist is introduced to his lover by Rinaldi and eventually abandons the army during the  
battle of Caporetto before fleeing to Switzerland, where Catherine Barkley dies in childbirth. For 10  
points, name this novel about Frederic Henry written by Ernest Hemingway.  
ANSWER:  A  Farewell to Arms 
BONUS. The membrane of these objects contains photosystems, and stacks of them are called grana.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these membranes in which the light reactions take place.  
ANSWER:  thylakoid 
s  
[10] In plants, thylakoids are found in this chlorophyllBcontaining organelle. Like with the mitochondria,  
the endosymbiotic theory explains the evolution of these organelles.  
ANSWER:  chloroplasts 
L. Friedrich EngelsDs  The Origin of the Family  is based on Karl MarxDs notes to this manDs magnum opus.  
He documented a rodent in his  The American Beaver and His Works , and his attempts to collaborate  
with his peers around the world resulted in  Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity . In another work, he  
claimed that humans progress through savagery and barbarism to get to civilization. For 10 points,  
name this author of  Ancient Society , a pioneering American anthropologist who worked with the  
Iroquois.  
ANSWER: Lewis Henry  Morgan 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 6 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
BONUS. The title character secures a large amount of silver for himself, after the boat it was being  
carried on is reported sunk. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this novel, which centers on the fictional republic of Costaguana.  
ANSWER:  Nostromo  
[10]  Nostromo  was written by this PolishBborn British novelist of  Youth  and  Heart of Darkness.  
ANSWER: Joseph  Conrad 
 [or Jósef Teodor Konrad Nalecz  Korzeniowski ]  
10. Uttaradhyana provides an account of the explanation of this to Kesi, a disciple of Parava. The  
samparyahka posture facilitates its occurrence in an account by Kalpasutra. Nirodha, subha, and satya  
are three of its eight attributes, while it is described as “expedient means” in the Lotus Sutra. It is often  
likened to Satori, which, like Kensho is temporary, but this concept implies freedom from samsara, the  
cycle of rebirth, and from suffering. For 10 points, name this state of perfect peace attained by the  
Jautama Buddha.  
ANSWER:  Nirvana 
 [prompt on  enlightenment ]  
BONUS. His Secretary of State wrote the autobiography  As I Saw It . For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this President, who worked with Dean Rusk to approve the Bay of Pigs invasion and was  
assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald in 1LH:.  
ANSWER: John Fitzgerald  Kennedy 
 [or  JFK ]  
[10] A former president of Ford Motor Company, this Secretary of Defense under JFK later served as  
President of the World Bank and apologized for his role in the Vietnam War.  
ANSWER: Robert Strange  McNamara 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 7 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
Four Quarter Set  
Round 6  
Third Quarter:  
Team Rounds 
Choices:  BRAVE NEW WORLD  
    1LK@  
BRAVE NEW WORLD  
This round boldly goes where no round has gone beforeO  
[10] This Dutchman discovered a new world with his microscope, as his letter to Robert Hooke is  
believed to be the first documented evidence of seeing bacteria.  
ANSWER: Anton5Antony von  Leeuwenhoek 
[10] Characters created by this author spent  *+% , went  /00001 
, , discovered    , and took a  2# .  
ANSWER: Jules  Verne 
[10] Along with William James, this Jerman author of  $  is credited  
with the development of some newfangled social science called psychology in 1KIF.  
ANSWER: Wilhelm Maximilian  Wundt 
[10] During his quest to obtain these objects from the Hesperides, Heracles apparently fell off the edge  
of the Earth to converse with Atlas, who ended up getting them for him.  
ANSWER: golden  apples 
[10] This Jerman’s fifteenthBcentury invention of the printing press suddenly made books a lot cheaper  
than they used to be, and revolutionized the distribution of the written word forever.  
ANSWER: Johannes Jensfleisch zur Laden zum  Gutenberg 
[10] Explorer Francisco Pizarro’s murder of Atahualpa signalled Spanish control over this empire, the  
last native rulers of Peru.  
ANSWER: the  Inca 
ns  
[10] This painter of  &,3 and  +,% was one of the first American artists  
to gain the respect of Europe.  
ANSWER: John Singleton  Copley 
[10] It was once thought that no ship would ever pass Cape Bojador, which is now part of this disputed  
territory claimed by its northern neighbor, Morocco.  
ANSWER:  Western Sahara 
[10] We may never get there, but this object, designated M:1 in the Messier catalog, is the closest  
galaxy to our own.  
ANSWER:  Andromeda 
 Jalaxy  
[10] Name the hallucinogen consumed ubiquitously throughout Aldous Huxley’s novel, Brave  -& 
+ .  
ANSWER:  soma 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 8 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
1LK@  
Big Brother is watching as you answer these questions about events of the year 1LK@.  
[10] The 1LK@ Nobel Prize in Physics went to Carlo Rubbia and Simon van der Meer for their discovery  
of the W and Z particles, which mediate this fundamental force that causes beta decay.  
ANSWER:  weak 
 nuclear force5interaction  
[10] In 1LK@, Brunei became independent from the United Kingdom. Name the island it shares with the  
Indonesian province of Kalimantan and the Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak.  
ANSWER:  Borneo 
[10] After the complete failure of Operation Blue Star, this Indian Prime Minister was assassinated by  
her Sikh bodyguards in 1LK@.  
ANSWER:  I 
ndira Priyadarshini  Gandhi  [prompt on  Gandhi ]  
[10] In 1LK@, Richard Meier became the sixth Laureate of this prize sponsored by the Hyatt Foundation.  
It is the most prestigious prize awarded in architecture.  
ANSWER:  Pritzker 
 Architecture Prize  
[10] A 1LK@ disaster in Bhopal, India occurred at a plant producing methyl isocyanate. One product of  
its violent reaction with water is this triatomic gas, also a product of combustion.  
ANSWER:  carbon dioxide 
 [or  CO 
3 
]  
[10] At the 1LK@ Republican National Convention, Jregory Johnson protested by doing  this , which was  
found to be protected by the First Amendment in the  Texas v. Johnson  case.  
ANSWER:  burning 
 the American  flag  [accept obvious equivalents]  
[10] In 1LK@, this Czech writer of  The Joke  published his bestBknown work, which follows Tomas, Tereza,  
Sabina, and Franz and is entitled  The Unbearable Lightness of Being .  
ANSWER: Milan  Kundera 
[10] This French philosopher, who wrote  Madness and Civilization  and  The History of Sexuality , died in  
1LK@.  
ANSWER: Michel  Foucault 
[10]  Akhnaten , an opera by this minimalist composer also responsible for  Einstein on the Beach ,  
Satyagraha , and several film scores, premeired in 1LK@.  
ANSWER: Philip  Glass 
[10] Name the ratBfearing protagonist of Jeorge Orwell’s  6989 , who finally accepts that he loves Big  
Brother.  
ANSWER:  Winston 
  Smith  [either or both names] 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 9 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
2008-2009  
Four Quarter Set  
Round 6  
Fourth Quarter:  
Ten Tossups 
1. One character in this work dies at AixBlaBChapelle, and leaves behind a lot of insurance money for the  
protagonist. The protagonist is offered a hand in marriage by Sir Pitt before she reveals that she is  
secretly married to Rawdon. Captain Dobbin is supportive of a character who has an unhappy marriage  
with Jeorge Osborne, and this work traces the lives of two girls from Miss Pinkerton’s Academy. Taking  
its name from  Pilgrim’s Progress , for 10 points, identify this novel about Amelia Sedley and the  
scheming Becky Sharp, a work by William Makepeace Thackeray.  
ANSWER:  Vanity Fair 
3. One part of this initiative was the creation of the Department of Transportation and this also led to  
the creation of the Center for Public Broadcasting and National Public Radio. The Elementary and  
Secondary Transportation Act set the precedent of national funding for public schools and this program  
created the Head Start preschool system. Other reforms under this sweeping moniker include Food  
Stamps, Medicare, and the Civil Rights Act of 1LH@. For 10 points name this set of domestic reforms  
initiated by Lyndon B. Johnson.  
ANSWER:  Great Society  
:. In architecture, this movement is exemplified by the exterior of Bavaria’s Wies Cathedral, designed  
by Dominikus Zimmerman, and Bartolomeo Rastrelli designed a St Petersburg landmark in this style. In  
addition to  A Young Girl Reading The Captured Kiss ,   and  Shop<Sign of Gersaint , works of this movement  
include  The Toilet of Venus Pilgrimage to Cythera ,  , and a painting with a big pink dress in it,  The Swing .  
For 10 points, name this eighteenthBcentury French art movement that included Francois Boucher, Jean  
Fragonard and Antoine Watteau.  
ANSWER:  Rococo 
@. The foliage of one tree located in this place is a kenning for gold. In addition to Jlasir, it contains the  
tree Laeraor, which provides foliage for the hart Eikpyrnir and the goat Heidrun. Its benches are strewn  
with coats of mail, and an eagle notably flies over this location. In the courtyard of this place are  
numerous men battling each other, which the einherjar partake in after eating and drinking mead out  
of horns. Balder died during a throwing contest in this place, which valkyries direct guests to. For 10  
points, name this hall of slain warriors in Norse mythology.  
ANSWER:  Valhalla 
 [or  Valhöll , prompt on  Asgard  before “courtyard”]  
F. Max Perutz showed that this molecule is formed of four polypeptide chains that rearrange during its  
most important function. The recessive disease Thalassemia results in a defective version of the alpha  
or beta version of this molecule. The Bohr effect deals with the results of COB3 levels on this protein,  
and a point mutation from glutamate to valine on this proteinDs beta chain causes sickle cell anemia.  
For 10 points, name this oxygenBcarrying protein in red blood cells.  
ANSWER:  hemoglobin 
2008-2009 Four Quarter Set    Round 6   Page 10 of 10  © 2009 HSAPQ  
These questions will not be licensed to any future tournament and may henceforth be used for practice purposes only.It is  
prohibited to use these questions for any purpose of financial gain or to remove the attribution of these questions to HSAPQ. 
H. One of the major consequences of this war was the transfer of the   slaveBtrading privilege.  
The treaties of Baden and Rastatt were signed in addition to the major treaty that ended it, and a major  
battle in it saw Tallard’s forces defeated by Eugene of Savoy and Marlborough at Blenheim. The  
American phase of this war was called Queen Anne’s War, and it ended with the Treaty of Utrecht in  
1I1:. For 10 points, name this conflict which was sparked by Louis XIV’s attempts to gain power from  
the heir to Carlos II in a neighboring country.  
ANSWER: War of the  Spanish Succession 
I. His letters about the abandonment he felt when his father died were published in   
# , and Stan Emery’s suicide by setting his apartment on fire disheartens Ellen Thatcher, who is  
married to Jimmy Herf in his novel   . Don Fuselli, Chrisfield and Andrews are the  
title characters of his novel  , , while his most famous work is noted for the “Camera Eye”  
writing technique. For 10 points, name this author of  9/ 
6767 and  , which  
make up his  1 , )     .  
ANSWER: John  Dos Passos 
K. Both types of this wane during a process that includes 4response topography,4 extinction, which can  
be preceded by an extinction burst. KaminDs Blocking Effect is one reason that doing this twice in a row  
might not work. One method for doing this is governed by ThorndikeDs Law of Effect and can be  
accomplished using B.F. SkinnerDs namesake box. Another method for doing this caused dogs to drool  
when Pavlov rang a bell. For 10 points, name this type of learning that is divided into “classical” and  
“operant” types.  
ANSWER:  conditioning 
 [accept  operant conditioning  before 4Kamin4 is read]  
L. Wenzel’s law states that the absolute value of this function for a contact angle with a rough surface  
is always greater than that for a contact angle with a smooth surface. The weight is multiplied by this  
function of the contact angle to yield the normal force exerted by an inclined surface, and the  
magnitude of work is found by multiplying force, distance, and this function of the angle between  
exerted force and direction of movement. For 10 points, name this function that appears in the dot  
product and is represented as adjacent leg over hypotenuse.  
ANSWER:  cos 
ine  
10. In one of his operas, the title character is called to Buoso Donati’s deathbed and Lauretta sings “O  
mio babbino caro.” In addition to  '  and  , , this man composed an opera where  
the bandit Dick Johnson sings “Ch’ella mi creda” and loves the title barBowner Minnie. This composer of  
+  wrote about Baron Scarpia and composed another opera where Rodolfo’s  
lover Mimi dies of consumption. For 10 points, name this composer of    ,  , and an opera  
about CioBCio San,   .  
ANSWER: Jiacomo  Puccini 
