NASAT 2013 
Round 2 
Tossups 
1. This man's son Julian composed five preludes before meeting his untimely end in a boating accident at 
age eleven. Like Schumann, this man abandoned his career as a performer when he injured his hand in a 
bout of excessive practicing. He was notoriously fearful of his sixth piano sonata, which he never 
performed in public. Some of his later pieces take as their basis a synthetic six note chord known as the 
“mystic” chord. This composer created a symphonic work that used a color organ known as the 
“Chromola.” Besides composing  
Prometheus: The Poem of Fire 
, he created a piece meant to be performed 
in the Himalayas for seven days. For 10 points, name this synesthetic Russian composer who intended his  
Mysterium 
 to precede the end of the world. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Scriabin 
052-13-83-02101 
2. In QR decomposition, a matrix is factored into one in this form and one in upper triangular form. A 
linear transformation, T, with this property satisfies the equality inner product of two vectors v and w 
equals the inner product of T v and T w. This type of matrix preserves the inner product and yields the 
identity when multiplied by its transpose. If a set of vectors satisfies this property, then it is linearly 
independent. A basis whose vectors are of unit length and have this property can be created with the 
Gram-Schmidt process. Two vectors with this property have a dot product of zero. For 10 points, identify 
this property of things that intersect at right angles. 
ANSWER:  
orthogonal 
 [or word forms] 
066-13-83-02102 
3. Harry Reid was incorrect in his belief that one of these items was found at Bolling Air Force Base. The 
person likely responsible for these items was earlier accused of multiple counts of child molestation and 
lost in a 2007 election to Steve Holland. The original person thought to be responsible for these items sang 
a Randy Travis song to Christi McCoy and works as an Elvis impersonator. These items ended, \"I am KC 
and I approve this message,\" which led to the arrest of Paul Kevin Curtis. J. Everett Dutschke is believed to 
have sent these items to Roger Wicker and Barack Obama. For 10 points, name these items mailed in April 
2013 that contained a poisonous extract from castor beans. 
ANSWER:  
ricin 
 letters [accept equivalent answers that mention  
ricin 
 being sent to public officials] 
023-13-83-02103 
4. A 1952 fire in this city was known as Black Saturday and destroyed the Omar Effendi department store. 
It is the site of the Ben Ezra Synagogue, whose storeroom was found to contain numerous abandoned 
Hebrew manuscripts, a collection known as this city’s namesake geniza. It was once home to the Khedival 
Opera House, built on orders of Ismail Pasha. The older portion of this city contains the remnants of Fustat, 
the original Muslim capital. A major public square in its downtown is named Liberation, or Tahrir Square, 
and was a major focal point of a 2011 revolution. On its outskirts are the Giza Pyramids. For 10 points, 
name this largest city in Egypt. 
ANSWER:  
Cairo 
 [or  
Masr 
] 
052-13-83-02104 
NASAT 2013     2     Page  1 of 11 
5. This man, whose death was the subject of the John Cornwell book  
A Thief in the Night 
, was compared to 
Peter Sellers for writing a collection of 1970s letters addressed to people like Dickens, Twain, and 
Pinocchio. That collection was called  
Illustrissimi 
. This man's dead body was discovered by Vincenza 
Taffarel. Conspiracy theories about his death came to light after the suspicious death of Roberto Calvi, the 
Chairman of Banco Ambrosiano who was known as \"God's Banker.\" This man's death may have involved 
the Mafia due to corruption in the Vatican Bank. For 10 points, name this pope who reigned for slightly 
more than a month in 1978 and whose name was adopted by his successor, the Polish Karol Wojtyla. 
ANSWER:  
John Paul I 
 [or Albino  
Luciani 
; prompt on  
John Paul 
] 
052-13-83-02105 
6. This artist showed a yellow-clad feminine archer on horseback above cowering nude women in his sole 
history painting, which he retitled  
Misfortunes of the City of Orleans 
. This painter showed four tanned 
European girls wearing only loincloths, who taunt nude stretching boys, in  
Young Spartans Exercising 
. He 
often painted the backs of nude women combing or drying themselves, such as in  
Woman in the Bath 
 and  
La Toilette 
. This artist showed a man reading a newspaper by a table piled high with white fluff in  
A Cotton 
Office in New Orleans 
 and painted a glum woman in his  
Absinthe Drinker 
. For 10 points, name this French 
painter who was unhealthily obsessed with ballerinas. 
ANSWER: Edgar  
Degas 
 [or Hillaire-Germain Edgar  
de Gas 
] 
104-13-83-02106 
7. This location was the subject of the Denbeaux study by Seton Hall's Center for Policy and Research. 
Michael Winterbottom made a film about residents of this place called the \"Tipton Three.\" Before being 
allowed to return to Australia, David Hicks spent six years at this location. In 2005, it was falsely reported 
that employees here had deliberately flushed a copy of the Quran down a toilet. One of its residents filed 
the lawsuit  
Hamdan v. Rumsfeld 
. Barack Obama promised to close this site, which is where Khalid Sheikh 
Mohammed is currently being held. For 10 points, name this detention camp operated by the United States 
in Cuba. 
ANSWER:  
Guantanamo 
 Bay detention camp [or  
G-Bay 
; or  
Gitmo 
; or  
Camp X-Ray 
] 
052-13-83-02107 
8. In an attempt to stop this event from happening, one character appeals to religion, which prompts another 
to say she knows “nothing but what the clergyman said” at her confirmation. Before this happens, that 
character remarks that eight years have passed, yet “we have never exchanged a word on any serious 
subject” and recalls how her father treated her like an inanimate object. This event was censored from the 
German premiere of the play it concludes. Signified by a notorious door slam, it occurs shortly after a bank 
manager destroys a bond and letters sent by his former employee Krogstad. For 10 points, name this event 
in Ibsen's  
A Doll House 
 in which the protagonist walks out on Torvald. 
ANSWER:  
Nora leaving 
 her family [or obvious equivalents; or  
Mrs. Helmer leaving 
 her family; or Nora  
slamming the door 
 until “door slam” is read] 
052-13-83-02108 
9. In one paper, this economist stated that the economic complexities of medical care can be explained as 
\"adaptations\" to uncertainty in disease prevalence and efficacy of treatment. The Duggan-Schwartz 
theorem extends one construct developed by this man to a set of results, and that statement named for this 
man is also generalized by the Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorem. This author of  
Social Choice and Individual 
Values 
 put forth a theorem which hinges in part upon monotonicity and non-dictatorship. For 10 points, 
name this economist who proved no voting system could make an adequate choice with his namesake 
\"impossibility theorem.\" 
ANSWER: Kenneth  
Arrow 
189-13-83-02109 
NASAT 2013     2     Page  2 of 11 
10. In Thai dramas of this event, Phra Lak exits before it is carried out by Thotsakan. The idea for this 
action came from a sharp-nailed woman with fish-shaped eyes whose nose had been cut off as punishment 
for seduction, named Surpanakha. Before this event, a demon skilled at imitating voices, Maricha, became 
a golden deer to serve as a distraction. A large bird whose wings were cut off trying to stop this event was 
the vulture-king Jatayu, Garuda’s brother. This event’s perpetrator disguised himself as a holy beggar in 
Dandaka forest. It occurred after Lakshmana ran off to find his brother during a fourteen-year exile, and 
incites a quest to Lanka to slay a ten-headed demon king. For 10 points, identify this event in which Ravana 
took possession of the wife of Rama. 
ANSWER:  
abduct 
ion of  
Sita 
 by Ravana [or  
abduct 
ion of Nang  
Sida 
; accept answers featuring 
ordinary-language synonyms such as  
kidnap 
ping or  
capture 
 for \"abduction\"; do not accept answers 
involving \"rape\" since Sita remains chaste] 
104-13-83-02110 
11. This experiment served as the basis for Jackson and Broadway's study of \"active nitrogen\" species. This 
experiment also served as the basis for an experiment whose result was explained by the assumed effective 
magnetic moment of dark state polaritons and was carried out by Karpa and Weitz. An extension of this 
experiment was used by Gordon, Zeiger and Townes to create the first MASER. That extension of this 
experiment led to the discovery of Rabi oscillations and was a precursor to NMR spectroscopy. This 
experiment's setup involved firing a beam of silver through an inhomogeneous magnetic field. For 10 
points, identify this experiment conducted by two German scientists, which demonstrated that electrons 
have quantized spin. 
ANSWER:  
Stern-Gerlach 
 experiment [or Otto  
Stern 
-Walther  
Gerlach 
 experiment] 
189-13-83-02111 
12. One small Gothic church in this city was moved from its precarious position immediately beside a river 
and purportedly housed a thorn from Christ's crown, resulting in the name Santa Maria della Spina. 
Gabriele d'Annunzio gave the nickname the \"square of miracles\" to a walled area in this city surrounded by 
a \"monumental cemetery\" and a non-Florentine Duomo whose bronze doors were constructed in 
Giambologna's workshop. A blind arcade with Corinthian capitals, seven bells, tuned to musical scale, and 
several lead counterweights can be found in this city's most famous site, where Galileo allegedly conducted 
his cannonball experiment. For 10 points, name this Italian city, home to a campanile built on an unstable 
foundation, its Leaning Tower. 
ANSWER:  
Pisa 
020-13-83-02112 
13. One poem from this collection calls its addressee a \"liberal and princely giver, who hast brought the 
gold and purple of thine heart.\" The last poem in this collection concludes, \"Instruct thine eyes to keep their 
colors true, and tell thy soul, their roots are left in mine.\" The author of this collection asks not to be loved 
\"except for love's sake only\" and to be called by her \"pet-name.\" This collection's best-known poem lists 
\"freely, as men strive for right\" and \"purely, as they turn from praise\" among the answers to the opening 
question, \"How do I love thee?\" For 10 points, name this collection of fourteen-line love poems by 
Elizabeth Barrett Browning. 
ANSWER:  
Sonnets from the Portuguese 
192-13-83-02113 
NASAT 2013     2     Page  3 of 11 
14. After leaving this place, a person quotes Homer in saying “better to be the poor servant of a poor 
master” than live here after he rejects the “habit of conferring honors” on those who are the quickest to 
observe certain things. The residents of this place joke about someone “who lost his eyes.” It is described 
to Glaucon immediately after the analogy of the divided line. In this place, people are chained and have an 
enormous fire and a walkway behind them, which results in them seeing shadows of people on the opposite 
wall that they interpret as real things. For 10 points, name this place described by Socrates in Plato’s  
Republic. 
ANSWER: the  
cave 
 [or  
underground 
 den; prompt on  
prison 
; accept obvious descriptions] 
052-13-83-02114 
15. A response to this play includes a fifty-year time jump between its two acts and tells of Russ and Bev, 
whose son Kenneth committed suicide after the Korean War. This play was the basis for the Bruce Norris 
play that won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize. In one scene from this play, Bobo arrives to reveal that Willy Harris 
stole $6500 intended as a liquor store investment. In this play, Asagai tries to convince Beneatha to move 
to Africa with him, while Mama decides what to do with an insurance check from Walter's death. For 10 
points, name this play about the Younger family's move to Clybourne Park, written by Lorraine Hansberry. 
ANSWER:  
A  Raisin in the Sun 
080-13-83-02115 
16. The shopkeeper Ignatius Sancho described this event in letters to John Spink in which he bemoaned the 
\"worse than Negro barbarity.\" This event's namesake later converted to Judaism and became Yisrael bar 
Avraham. This event resulted in John Wilkes losing popularity after he led soldiers stationed at a bank. 
During this event, a graffiti artist notoriously wrote the words \"King Mob\" on the wall of Newgate Prison. 
This event was supported by its namesake's Protestant Association, who opposed an act needed to increase 
the army's size during the American War of Independence. For 10 points, name these riots against the 
Catholic Relief Act that swept London in 1780. 
ANSWER:  
Gordon 
 Riots 
052-13-83-02116 
17. One of this author’s title characters owns a pet ostrich, survives an arsenic-laced birthday cake, and 
spews green blood after she is finally killed by Ulises. He wrote a short story in which a sane woman is 
taken in by a mental asylum in spite of her pleas that she only came to use the phone. In a novella, this 
author described a rooster once owned by Agustin, which the pension-awaiting protagonist refuses to allow 
to fight. The title character of another of his stories is kept in the chicken coop and believed to be an angel. 
In one of his novels, the violation of their sister leads the Vicario brothers to kill Santiago Nasar. For 10 
points, name this author of  
Chronicle of a Death Foretold 
 and  
One Hundred Years of Solitude. 
ANSWER: Gabriel  
Garcia Marquez 
190-13-83-02117 
18. This event was encouraged by the secret Project FUBELT. Members of the Weather Underground 
bombed ITT Corporation for supporting this event. Charles Horman was killed during it, a death that was 
the subject of the Costa-Gavras film  
Missing 
. During this event, Defense Minister Orlando Letelier was 
arrested and tortured. Following this event, the Caravan of Death killed numerous individuals. Its target, the 
head of the Popular Unity Party, apparently committed suicide in the presidential palace, La Moneda. For 
10 points, name this 1973 event that overthrew the first democratically elected Marxist president in South 
America and led to Augusto Pinochet seizing power. 
ANSWER: 1973  
Chilean coup 
 d'etat [or  
September 11 
, 1973, coup in Chile; accept answers like  
overthrowing 
 Salvador  
Allende 
; accept  
Pinochet's coup 
 before \"Pinochet\" is read] 
052-13-83-02118 
NASAT 2013     2     Page  4 of 11 
19. One entity named for this man is innervated by one-B afferents. He discovered a technique in which 
silver chromate particles are fixed to a neuron membrane by reacting silver nitrate with potassium 
dichromate. He named one reaction he discovered the \"black reaction.\" That technique of staining nervous 
tissue is now named for him, although it was refined by his fellow Nobel laureate, Santiago Ramon y Cajal. 
This scientist names a sensory receptor organ located where skeletal muscle fibers enter tendons. He 
discovered an entity that consists of flattened membrane disks called cisternae. This man names an object 
that packages proteins inside a cell. For 10 points, name this Italian scientist who has a namesake “body,” 
an organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. 
ANSWER: Camillo  
Golgi 
052-13-83-02119 
20. Fred Cohen proved in 1984 that no algorithm exists to detect these entities. Veith Risak created an 
assembly language variant of this entity that was based on theories put for in a 1966 paper by John von 
Neumann. That paper introduced the theory of self-replicating automata. In the 1980s, a proof-of-concept 
version of this entity notably displayed the message \"catch me if you can!\" In addition to \"Creeper\", a more 
recent type of this entity has affected over one million computers and is called \"Gozi\". For 10 points, 
identify these computer programs that are targeted by Kaspersky Lab and McAfee, and which behave in a 
manner similar to their biological counterparts. 
ANSWER: computer  
viruses 
 [or computer  
worms 
; or  
malware 
; or  
malicious computer programs 
 ; or 
other types of malicious \"ware\"] 
145-13-83-02120 
21. This poem describes a \"love so much refined that ourselves know not what it is, inter-assured of the 
mind.\" In its third stanza, the speaker claims that \"trepidation of the spheres\" is \"innocent,\" though \"moving 
of th' earth brings harms and fears.\" This poem uses the simile \"like gold to aery thinness beat\" to describe 
the expansion of two souls. It ends by stating, \"thy firmness makes my circle just, and makes me end where 
I begun\" after expounding the metaphor of the speaker and his lover as the two legs of a compass. For 10 
points, name this John Donne poem attempting to dispel the sadness of a farewell. 
ANSWER: \"A  
Valediction: Forbidding Mourning 
\" 
192-13-83-02121 
22. One powerful noble who switched sides during this conflict was Ranulf de Gernon, the Earl of Chester. 
Another leader in this conflict escaped capture by hiding on a funeral bier, then later escaped Oxford by 
dressing in white and walking across the frozen River Thames. During this conflict, Robert of Gloucester 
led forces that won the Battle of Lincoln. This conflict ended with the Treaty of Wallingford. This time 
period began after the death of Henry I, whose only son William died aboard the White Ship. For 10 points, 
name this time period during which the Empress Matilda and Stephen of Blois battled it out for control of 
England. 
ANSWER:  
Anarchy 
 [or  
Nineteen Year Winter 
] 
140-13-83-02122 
23. This city was known as Aquincum in Roman times, a reference to its many hot springs. Many famous 
residents of this city are buried at its Kerepesi cemetery. Visitors to this city may stay at its famous Gellert 
Hotel, and Jews in this city built the Dohany Street Synagogue. Fourteen statues of historic figures can be 
found in this city’s Heroes Square. The Chain Bridge across the Danube, completed in 1849, connected the 
two separate cities that merged to make this national capital. For 10 points, name this largest city in 
Hungary. 
ANSWER:  
Budapest 
021-13-83-02123 
NASAT 2013     2     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2013 
Round 2 
Bonuses 
1. This character is last seen complaining about the heaviness of his heart and being comforted by Sonya. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who manages the rural estate of Professor Serebryakov. This character loves 
Serebryakov’s wife, Yelena, and he anticlimactically shoots at but misses the professor. 
ANSWER: Uncle  
Vanya 
 [or  
Ivan 
 Petrovich Voynitsky; or Ivan Petrovich  
Voynitsky 
] 
[10] Uncle Vanya is the title character of a play written by this author of  
The Cherry Orchard. 
ANSWER: Anton  
Chekhov 
[10] Unlike Chekhov's other major plays,  
Uncle Vanya 
 was not a new composition, but a reworking of this 
earlier play, which Chekhov initially planned as a collaboration with Aleksey Suvorin. 
ANSWER:  
The  Wood Demon 
 [or  
Goblin 
] 
052-13-83-02201  
2. The argument “All rabbits are US Presidents, Barack Obama is a rabbit, therefore Barack Obama is a US 
President”  
does 
 have this property. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this property of an argument, which means its conclusion follows from its premises if the 
premises are all presumed be true, though they may not be. 
ANSWER: argumentative  
valid 
ity [or deductive  
valid 
ity] 
[10] This British thinker’s namesake “shift” is the logical fact that if “p, q, therefore r” is a valid argument, 
then “not r, q, therefore not p” is also valid, and either could be true. He used that that namesake shift in the 
“Here is a hand” argument from  
A Defense of Common Sense. 
ANSWER: George Edward  
Moore 
[10] Moore’s “here is a hand” argument tries to refute this attitude that the real truth about the external 
world is unknowable. 
ANSWER: philosophical  
skeptic 
ism [or  
solipsism 
; accept word forms] 
104-13-83-02202  
3. The title character of this short story previously worked at the dead letter office. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Herman Melville short story about an enigmatic character who works with Turkey and 
Nippers. 
ANSWER: \" 
Bartleby, the Scrivener 
\" 
[10] Whenever he is asked to do work, Bartleby repeatedly gives this five-word response. 
ANSWER: \" 
I would prefer not to 
\" 
[10] This other Melville short story consists of ten sketches, often with epigraphs from  
The Faerie Queene, 
including \"A Pisgah View from the Rock\" and \"Runaways, Castaways, Solitaries, Gravestones, Etc.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Encantadas 
\" 
189-13-83-02203  
NASAT 2013     2     Page  6 of 11 
4. A forest near this mountain is the world’s second most popular suicide location after the Golden Gate 
Bridge. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this highest mountain in Japan, which is located on Honshu. 
ANSWER: Mount  
Fuji 
[10] This aforementioned forest contains various rocky caverns and according to folklore, is a site filled 
with demons. It is known as the “Sea of Trees.” 
ANSWER:  
Aokigahara 
[10] Mount Fuji is located at the triple junction where the Amurian Plate, the Philippine Sea Plate, and the 
Okhotsk Plate meet. The Sea of Okhotsk is near this peninsula in the Russian Far East. 
ANSWER:  
Kamchatka 
 Peninsula 
052-13-83-02204  
5. This culture was defined as one in which society \"inculcates absolute standards of morality and relies on 
men's developing a conscience.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of culture that focuses on having a clear conscience and was contrasted with another 
culture in a study written right after World War II. 
ANSWER:  
guilt 
 culture 
[10] America's guilt culture was contrasted with Japan's shame culture in this work of anthropology. 
ANSWER:  
The  Chrysanthemum and the Sword : Patterns of Japanese Culture 
[10] This author of  
Patterns of Culture 
 and  
Zuni Mythology 
 wrote  
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword 
. 
ANSWER: Ruth  
Benedict 
 [or Ruth  
Fulton 
] 
023-13-83-02205  
6. One building built for this event was known as the \"Great Shalimar.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1851 event organized by Henry Cole and Prince Albert for which the Joseph 
Paxton-designed Crystal Palace was built. 
ANSWER:  
Great Exhibition 
 of the Works of Industry of all Nations [prompt on  
World's Fair 
; prompt on 
Crystal Palace Exhibition 
] 
[10] Prince Albert was married to this queen who ruled England for over 63 years, longer than any other 
British monarch. 
ANSWER: Alexandrina  
Victoria 
[10] This man was Prime Minister when Victoria took the throne and trained her in the art of politics. His 
resignation led to the Bedchamber Crisis. 
ANSWER: William Lamb, Second Viscount  
Melbourne 
 [or William  
Lamb 
] 
052-13-83-02206  
7. This man said “any ass can see” that his first symphony was a conscious homage to Beethoven. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this composer of the  
Academic Festival Overture 
 and a \"Lullaby,\" whose first symphony has 
been referred to as “Beethoven’s Tenth” by smart-aleck musicologists. 
ANSWER: Johannes  
Brahms 
[10] This Brahms concert overture was meant to contrast with the joyful expression in the  
Academic 
Festival Overture 
. Its three main sections are all in the key of D minor. 
ANSWER:  
Tragic  Overture, Op. 81 
 [or  
Tragische Ouvertüre 
] 
[10] Brahms may have channeled his romantic feelings for Julie Schumann into this choral piece, based on 
verses from Goethe's  
Harzreise im Winter 
. 
ANSWER:  
Alto Rhapsody , Op. 53 
 [or  
Rhapsody for alto , male chorus, and orchestra, Op. 53 
] 
052-13-83-02207  
NASAT 2013     2     Page  7 of 11 
8. This man filed lawsuits against the Oneida community's founder, John Humphrey Noyes. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this insane man who shouted \"I am a Stalwart!\" during an action that led to the passage of the 
Pendleton Civil Service Act. 
ANSWER: Charles Julius  
Guiteau 
[10] Guiteau assassinated this President, who was succeeded by Chester Alan Arthur. 
ANSWER: James Abram  
Garfield 
[10] This man served on the prosecution team during Guiteau's trial. As Secretary of War, this man 
endorsed the 1901 Platt Amendment to authorize American intervention in Cuba. 
ANSWER: Elihu  
Root 
052-13-83-02208  
9. Simon Marius tried to name this moon the \"Jupiter of Jupiter\". For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this largest moon of Jupiter and largest moon in the Solar System. 
ANSWER:  
Ganymede 
[10] Jupiter's moons of Ganymede, Europa, and Io form a stable 1:2:4 orbital resonance, which is a type of 
resonance named for this French mathematician. 
ANSWER: Pierre-Simon, marquis de  
Laplace 
[10] The Laplace resonance is also found in star number 876 of this catalog. This catalogue of nearby stars 
includes one with three confirmed exoplanets, number 581. 
ANSWER:  
Gliese 
 Catalogue of Nearby Stars 
052-13-83-02209  
10. Name some chemistry lab materials named for chemists. For 10 points each: 
[10] This particular kind of flask used in a chemistry lab has a cylindrical upper neck above a conical body 
and flat bottom. It is named for a German chemist. 
ANSWER:  
Erlenmeyer 
 flask 
[10] Pasteur names a particular kind of these glass lab materials, which are used in virtually every organic 
chemistry lab procedure. They are often used in conjugation with latex bulbs. 
ANSWER:  
pipette 
s 
[10] This chemist names a glass adapter used in reflux techniques, where one channel leads to a condenser 
and another leads to a separatory funnel. 
ANSWER: Rainer Ludwig  
Claisen 
189-13-83-02210  
11. The first one of these subsets of a larger musical work features accompaniment from an electric organ. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these things, the fifth one of which is partially a story of two lovers sitting on a park bench 
under the moonlight. The fourth one of these interludes precedes sections called \"Building\" and \"Bed.\" 
ANSWER:  
knee play 
s from  
Einstein on the Beach 
 [do not accept or prompt on \" 
Einstein on the Beach 
\" 
alone] 
[10]  
Einstein on the Beach 
 is a four-act opera composed by this American minimalist composer. 
ANSWER: Philip Morris  
Glass 
[10] Glass collaborated with Constance DeJong on the libretto for this opera, the second in Glass's \"Portrait 
Trilogy,\" which is loosely based on the life of Gandhi. 
ANSWER:  
Satyagraha 
189-13-83-02211  
NASAT 2013     2     Page  8 of 11 
12. This neurotransmitter is a central part of the mesolimbic pathway extending from the VTA to the 
nucleus accumbens. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this neurotransmitter which is heavily involved in the brain's reward pathways. It is a 
precursor to epinephrine. 
ANSWER:  
dopamine 
 [prompt on  
DA 
] 
[10] This family of enzymes originally discovered by Mary Bernheim functions by breaking down 
dopamine, tryptamine, and other associated neurotransmitters. It catalyzes the conversion of metanephrine 
to VMA. 
ANSWER: L- 
monoamine oxidase 
 [or  
MAO 
; or  
MAO 
-A; or  
MAO 
-B] 
[10] Haloperidol, which is used to treat psychotic states, acts as this specific type of agonist for dopamine 
receptors. AgRP is an endogenous example of this kind of agonist which binds to the same receptor as 
other agonists, but produces the opposite response. 
ANSWER:  
inverse 
 agonist 
189-13-83-02212  
13. This psychopomp aided Io by killing the hundred-eyed Argos Panoptes. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Greek deity, an owner of winged boots who served Mount Olympus as the messenger god. 
ANSWER:  
Hermes 
[10] Hermes was the son of Zeus and this nymph, a member of the Pleiades. This figure also raised Arcas, 
the offspring of Callisto. 
ANSWER:  
Maia 
[10] In some legends, Hermes was raised by Acacus, the son of this evil Arcadian king. This man's attempt 
to feed human flesh to Zeus enraged Zeus to the point of destroying humanity with a flood. 
ANSWER:  
Lycaon 
192-13-83-02213  
14. In this novel, Madame Permaneder diligently pours delicious hot chocolate with whipped cream as part 
of her daily routine as maidservant. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel about Thomas, Hanno, and several other members of a merchant family in Lübeck. 
ANSWER:  
Buddenbrooks : The Decline of a Family 
 [or  
Buddenbrooks : Verfall einer Familie 
] 
[10]  
Buddenbrooks 
 was written by this German author of  
The Magic Mountain 
 and  
Death in Venice. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Mann 
[10] This member of the Buddenbrook family is forced to marry a successful merchant despite her romance 
with the medical student Morten, whom she met in a seaside town. 
ANSWER:  
Tony 
 Buddenbrook 
020-13-83-02214  
15. This organization's motto was \"Shield and Sword of the Party.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this state security service for East Germany that helped to set up the secret police of Idi Amin 
and Fidel Castro, among many other repressive activities. 
ANSWER:  
Stasi 
 [or  
Ministry for State Security 
; or  
Ministerium fuer Staatssicherheit 
] 
[10] The Stasi frequently collaborated with this Russian secret police once headed by Soviet leader Yuri 
Andropov. 
ANSWER:  
KGB 
 [or  
Committee for State Security 
; or  
Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti 
] 
[10] The KGB may have assisted in the assassination of Bulgarian dissident Georgi Markov in 1978. 
Markov died after he was shot with a micro-pellet containing ricin, which was fired by a man wielding one 
of these objects. 
ANSWER:  
umbrella 
052-13-83-02215  
NASAT 2013     2     Page  9 of 11 
16. During a game of blindman’s bluff, one character ends up getting his foot trapped in this object. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this item which Stanley Webber receives as a birthday gift in a play. It seems oddly childish for 
Stanley, who is last seen being taken away by Goldberg and McCann. 
ANSWER: a toy  
drum 
[10] Stanley is the protagonist of the  
The Birthday Party 
, a play by this English author of  
Betrayal 
 and  
The 
Dumb Waiter 
. 
ANSWER: Harold  
Pinter 
[10] In  
The Dumb Waiter 
, Ben and Gus have an argument over a certain semantic phrase. The two argue 
whether or not the phrase is “light” this object or “put on” this object found in a kitchen. Please give the 
exact word used in the play. 
ANSWER: the  
kettle 
 [do not accept any other answers] 
052-13-83-02216  
17. This phenomenon resolved the tau-theta puzzle and was first confirmed by the decay of neutral kaons. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this phenomenon in which decay via the weak force does not conserve the symmetry between 
the two namesake quantities. 
ANSWER:  
CP 
 violation [or  
charge 
 conjuation- 
parity 
 symmetry violation] 
[10] CP violation is one of Sakharov's conditions for baryogenesis, which may explain why this substance 
is rarely seen in the universe. It is the opposite of matter. 
ANSWER:  
antimatter 
[10] Some decays involving CP violation can be described by this class of Feynman diagrams. The particle 
processes depicted on these diagrams are often observed in B meson decays. 
ANSWER:  
penguin 
 diagrams 
140-13-83-02217  
18. The first recorded mention of this province is found in Adam of Bremen's \"description of the islands of 
the north\" in his  
History of the Archbishops 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this designation given to a settlement that included the site of L'Anse aux Meadows 
(LAHNCE-oh-MEH-doe) in Newfoundland. 
ANSWER:  
Vinland 
[10] The settlement at Vinland was established by this Viking explorer, a son of Erik the Red whose story 
is partly told in the  
Saga of the Greenlanders 
. 
ANSWER:  
Leif Ericson 
 the Lucky [or  
Leiv Eriksson 
 den Hepne; or  
Leifur Eiriksson 
] 
[10] This king baptized Leif Ericson and was instrumental in the spread of Christianity throughout Norway, 
building its first Christian church. In his attempts to make Sweden Christian as well, he offered marriage to 
the pagan Sigrid the Haughty. 
ANSWER:  
Olaf 
 I of Norway [or Olaf  
Trygvasson 
] 
192-13-83-02218  
NASAT 2013     2     Page  10 of 11 
19. Adel Almi, a religious figure in this country, recently called for the lashing or possible stoning of 
Amina Tyler. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this country which has been home to significant controversy after Tyler posted topless 
pictures of herself. 
ANSWER:  
Tunisia 
[10] Amina Tyler is a member of this feminist organization based in Ukraine, partially known for its 
topless protests. A recent topless protest by this group against Vladimir Putin apparently resulted in Putin 
enjoying the experience. 
ANSWER:  
FEMEN 
[10] Two years prior to Tyler's protest, a more dramatic demonstration in which a vegetable salesman set 
himself on fire set in motion the events that led to this longtime ruler of Tunisia stepping down. 
ANSWER: Zine El Abidine  
Ben Ali 
189-13-83-02219  
20. In one painting, this person appears under a triumphal arch with hanging green silk brocade, attended to 
by Seigneur de St. Antoine. For 10 point s each: 
[10] Name this king, who emerges from a thicket, wearing full black armor and riding a pony in an 
equestrian portrait by Anthony van Dyck. 
ANSWER:  
Charles I 
 [prompt on  
Charles 
] 
[10] The  
Equestrian Portrait of Charles I 
 was inspired in part by this German woodcut master's engraving  
Knight, Death, and the Devil 
. 
ANSWER: Albrecht  
Durer 
[10] Bernini modeled a bust on van Dyck's 1636 portrait of Charles I, which had this unique attribute. 
Norman Rockwell also produced a self-portrait with this attribute, which spawned a parody in which Walt 
Disney looks at a mirror while drawing Mickey Mouse. 
ANSWER:  
triple 
 portrait [or portrait from  
three 
 different positions; accept anything suggesting that there 
are  
three 
 of the subjects being portrayed] 
020-13-83-02220  
21. This man was converted to a life of mysticism after a stay at the Verkhoturye Monastery. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this \"Mad Monk\" who served as a spiritual adviser to the Romanov family. During his violent 
assassination, he was poisoned, shot, and beaten before he was thrown into the Neva River. 
ANSWER: Grigori Yefimovich  
Rasputin 
 [or Grigori Yefimovich  
Novykh 
] 
[10] Rasputin developed a particularly close relationship with this prince, who was born with the \"royal 
disease,\" hemophilia. 
ANSWER:  
Alexis 
 [or  
Aleksei 
 Nikolayevich] 
[10] During the coronation of Aleksei's father, Nicholas II, over a thousand people died in this massive 
stampede that resulted from a rumor that there wasn't enough alcohol for everyone. 
ANSWER:  
Khodynka 
 Tragedy 
192-13-83-02221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     2     Page  11 of 11 
