NASAT 2013 
Round 4 
Tossups 
1. Woolley and McEwen linked estradiol administration to an increase in this structure's dendritic spines 
and excitatory synapses. The entorhinal cortex sends information to this structure via a bundle of axons 
called the perforant path. O'Keefe showed that place cells in this structure selectively respond to particular 
locations in an environment. This structure consists of two sheets called the dentate gyrus and Ammon's 
horn. Damage to this structure results in retrograde amnesia. For 10 points, name this region of the brain 
which is pivotal in short term memory processes, named for its resemblance to a seahorse. 
ANSWER:  
hippocampus 
189-13-83-04101 
2. One of these objects featured contrasting images of a city at peace and a city at war, surrounded by the 
stream of the Ocean. The \"leaping priests,\" or the Salii, were put in charge of twelve of these 
objects--eleven fake, one real--after one of them fell from the sky during the reign of Numa Pompilius. The 
Sabines crushed Tarpeia to death with these objects. Seven ox-hides were used to create one belonging to 
Ajax. The one belonging to Aeneas depicts several scenes from Rome's history. A more famous one was 
made of goatskin and was used to kill Polydectes. That one, upon which Medusa's head was mounted, was 
lent by Athena to Perseus. For 10 points, name these kinds of protective objects in Greek mythology, 
including the Aegis. 
ANSWER:  
shield 
s 
020-13-83-04102 
3. The Hahn-Banach theorem extends a bounded functional of this type on a subspace of a normed space to 
a bounded functional of this type defined on the entire space. The inverse of this type of differential 
operator is an integral operator whose kernel is the Green's function of the differential operator. Maps of 
this type between vector spaces can be expressed as the multiplication of a standard matrix with the vectors 
in the space being mapped. For systems, it is usually paired with time invariance and occurs when the 
output satisfies homogeneity and superposition. A set of solutions to a differential equation is described by 
it and independent if the Wronskian is not zero. a x is congruent to b mod n is this type of congruence 
relation. For 10 points, give this term that identifies equations of the form y equals m x plus b. 
ANSWER:  
linear 
ity 
066-13-83-04103 
4. This man included wind accompaniment in an E-minor mass written for the addition of the Votive 
Chapel to the Linz Cathedral, a piece conveniently situated between a D-minor and F-minor work in a 
\"great\" set of masses. The six revisions of another work by this composer, whose andante section depicts a 
lovers' tryst, illustrate the namesake \"problem\" faced by people trying to classify his works. He added a 
cymbal clash and a dirge for four French horn-tuba hybrids to his seventh symphony and composed the 
“Hunting” scherzo and “Volkfest” finale as replacements for his most famous symphony, intended to 
evoke the chivalry of operas like  
Lohengrin 
. For 10 points, name this Wagner fanboy, the composer of the  
Lyric 
 and  
Romantic 
 symphonies. 
ANSWER: Anton  
Bruckner 
192-13-83-04104 
NASAT 2013     4     Page  1 of 11 
5. The stage directions for this play, whose author revised its ending confrontation six times, include a 
“light box” upstage. Two men who interrupt each other to relay gossip in this play are called the Venticelli, 
and the king in this play randomly exclaims “There it is!” Its narrator slits his throat after calling himself 
the “patron saint of mediocrities,” seduces Katherina with candies called “nipples of Venus,” and rejects 
God after throwing a rival’s manuscript pages in the air. At its end, Constanze cradles her dying, infantile 
husband as an “Amen” chord fails to resolve. For 10 points, name this Peter Shaffer play narrated by 
Salieri, who rages against a child prodigy composer. 
ANSWER:  
Amadeus 
104-13-83-04105 
6. One of the best sources on the culture of this empire is a travelogue created by Jean Chardin. Rulers of 
this empire resided in Ali Qapu palace, which allowed them to supervise public events occurring in 
Naqsh-e-Jahan Square. This dynasty's greatest ruler established a permanent army with a tripartite structure 
of  
topchis tofangchis 
,  , and  
ghulam 
 slaves. The founder of this dynasty drew on the support of a fanatical 
religious sect that wore red headgear with twelve folds. Tahmasp I of this dynasty signed the Treaty of 
Amasya with the Ottomans, who decisively defeated this empire at the Battle of Chaldiran. For 10 points, 
name this empire founded by Ismail I, who made Shia Islam the state religion in Iran. 
ANSWER:  
Safavid 
 Dynasty 
141-13-83-04106 
7. The narrator of this work is asked to stay for dinner after bringing a Santa Fe sugared cake to another 
man's house. One character in this story invents the word \"lactinacious\" as a synonym for milky and claims 
that modern man has reversed the story of Mohammed and the mountain. That character is writing a poem 
called  
The Earth 
 based on the  
Poly-Olbion 
 of Michael Drayton. The narrator begins this story reflecting on 
the death of Beatriz Viterbo, whose cousin Carlos Argentino Daneri tries to prevent his house being torn 
down. For 10 points, name this Jorge Luis Borges story whose title refers to a location from where every 
point in the universe may be seen. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Aleph 
\" [or \"El  
Aleph 
\"] 
192-13-83-04107 
8. A series of four books on this organization has been written James Bamford. Ronald Pelton, an employee 
of this organization, was sent to jail in 1986. In front of the House of Commons, William Hague defending 
the collaboration between this organization and GCHQ. In March 2013, James Clapper lied in response to 
Ron Wyden's questions about this organization. The head of this agency, Keith Alexander, has claimed that 
its measures prevented \"dozens of attacks.\" For 10 points, name this government agency whose PRISM 
program was exposed by Edward Snowden, a whistleblower who took issue with its surveillance of 
American citizens. 
ANSWER:  
NSA 
 [or  
National Security Agency 
] 
080-13-83-04108 
9. This character tries to say \"Jesus will help you\" but can only murmur \"Jesus, Jesus,\" prompting another 
character to agree that \"Jesus shown everything off balance.\" She tells a fraudulent story about a plantation 
house where family silver is hidden, but cannot remember if it is in Tennessee or Georgia. This character 
calls another character “one of my babies” and reaches out to touch his shoulder before being shot to death. 
She hides her cat, Pitty Sing, in a basket, but it gets loose and causes a car accident, indirectly causing the 
death of her family at the hands of the Misfit. For 10 points, name this elderly protagonist of Flannery 
O’Connor’s story “A Good Man Is Hard to Find.” 
ANSWER: the  
grandmother 
052-13-83-04109 
NASAT 2013     4     Page  2 of 11 
10. This government faced the Khmelnytski Uprising, removing their power over the Cossacks through the 
Treaty of Pereyaslav. A \"Silent Parliament\" was called in this state in 1717 that prevented an absolute 
monarchy being created over it. The Union of Krewo and Union of Grodno were predecessors to the 
formation of this polity, which was attacked by Sweden in the Deluge. The Constitution of May 3rd was 
passed by its \"Great Sejm.\" The szlachta lost power during the decline of this government, which was 
established by the Union of Lublin. For 10 points, name this commonwealth that was formed in 1569 by a 
duchy ruled from Vilnius and a kingdom centered at Krakow. 
ANSWER:  
Polish-Lithuanian 
 Commonwealth [or Union of  
Poland and Lithuania 
] 
192-13-83-04110 
11. In 2013, ice boulders came up on this body of water’s shores, being donned this lake’s namesake 
“marbles.” James J. Strange established a Mormon kingdom on this body of water’s largest island, Beaver 
Island. According to legend, two bear cubs drowned in this lake, forming the North and South Manitou 
Islands. The Old Mission Peninsula splits an extension of it, the Grand Traverse Bay. The Door Peninsula 
juts into this lake, which is connected to Lake Huron by the Straits of Mackinac. Milwaukee and Chicago 
are cities on its shores. For 10 points, name this Great Lake, the namesake of an American state. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Michigan 
192-13-83-04111 
12. This compound reacts with tryptophan and tyrosine to form a yellow or orange color in the 
xanthoproteic test. Since this compound is a strong oxidizing agent, it has seen usage in explosives and in 
rocket fuel, where it combines with kerosene or hydrazine. One process for synthesizing this compound 
uses a platinum-rhodium catalyst. Solutions with extremely high concentrations of this compound are 
known as its red and white fuming varieties. Called aqua fortis in antiquity, this acid is combined with 
hydrochloric acid to form aqua reqia. It is synthesized from ammonia in the Ostwald process. For 10 points, 
name this strong acid with formula HNO3. 
ANSWER:  
nitric acid 
 [or  
HNO3 
 before mention] 
140-13-83-04112 
13. Jean-Louis Barrault's Grand Odeon Theater became a center of free discussion during this event. \"It is 
forbidden to forbid\" was a slogan of this event, which led to the formation of the CMDO. The Grenelle 
Agreements, which increased the minimum wage, were rejected during this event, which based many of its 
ideas from the pamphlet  
On the Poverty of Student Life 
. The president of the nation in which it occurred 
fled to Baden-Baden. Beginning with student outrage over the occupation of the Sorbonne, it involved the 
first nationwide wildcat strikes. For 10 points, name these uprisings that nearly toppled Charles de Gaulle's 
government. 
ANSWER:  
May 1968 
 protests in France [or anything specifying the student  
protests 
 against Charles  
de 
Gaulle's 
 government; or the  
1968 protests 
 in  
France 
; prompt on  
protests in France 
] 
192-13-83-04113 
14. The events of this book seem to oppose principles espoused in Deuteronomy 23:3. Two characters in it 
have names meaning \"sickness\" and \"wasting.\" In this book, Ploni Almoni gives up his right to marry the 
title character, who has a son named Obed. One character in this book declares \"Intreat me not to leave 
thee, or to return from following after thee.\" Traditionally, Samuel is held to be the author of this book, in 
which the sons of Elimelech, Mahlon and Chilion, marry the title character and Orpah respectively. The 
protagonist gleans barley for her mother-in-law Naomi and meets a man whose feet she later uncovers. For 
10 points, name this book of the Old Testament whose title character is a woman who marries Boaz. 
ANSWER: Book of  
Ruth 
192-13-83-04114 
NASAT 2013     4     Page  3 of 11 
15. A vulgar poem about this man has him request to kiss a ruler's buttocks before arriving in Philadelphia 
to show off his gold. He lost a 1792 election for governor to George Clinton when votes in three counties 
were thrown out on technicalities. The founder of the New York Manumission Society, this man, who is 
not Alexander Hamilton, had a Jeffersonian cry made against him that said \"Damn everyone that won't 
damn\" this man. This man names a treaty that granted most-favored-nation trading status to a country that 
vacated forts in the Great Lakes region. For 10 points, name this first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court 
who, along with Hamilton and Madison, wrote the  
Federalist Papers 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Jay 
052-13-83-04115 
16. This artist depicted a knight about to chop down a tree to break a spell placed upon him by Armida in 
his drawing  
Rinaldo in the Enchanted Forest 
. He included a lute, a tambourine, and sheet music in a 
painting in which a woman lowers a crown onto the head of her lover, the fourth in a series he painted for 
Madame du Barry. A baby tries to grasp at a dangling toy in one painting by this artist, in which a woman 
peeks from underneath a white cloth to cheat at the title game. He also painted a man under a stone statue 
of Cupid peeking under the dress of a woman who kicks off her shoe in mid-air. For 10 points, name this 
painter of  
The Progress of Love 
 and  
Blind Man's Bluff 
, a Rococo artist best known for  
The Swing 
. 
ANSWER: Jean-Honore  
Fragonard 
192-13-83-04116 
17. A poet who wrote in this genre asked that some other soldier \"draw his camp on the table in wine\" in a 
poem beginning, \"Who was he, who first forged the fearful sword?\" The only extant poems by a Roman 
woman were written in this form by Sulpicia and grouped with others in this form by Tibullus. Four books 
of these poems were written by a member of Maecenas' circle who loved Cynthia, Sextus Propertius. This 
poetic form was used to write letters called the  
Tristia 
 from exile in Tomis by a poet who also used it in his  
Amores 
. For 10 points, name this kind of Latin poem often written by Ovid in namesake \"couplets.\" 
ANSWER:  
elegy 
 [or  
elegies 
; or  
elegi 
; or  
elegiac couplets 
] 
080-13-83-04117 
18. One of this man’s ballets sets Weber’s  
Invitation to the Dance 
 to a story in which a woman dreams of 
meeting the spirit of the title flower. This choreographer left the Ballets Russes after Diaghilev lost interest 
in helping set Ravel’s  
Daphnis et Chloe 
 to dance. This man also created a ballet for which Alexander 
Glazunov orchestrated music by Chopin. He discouraged the use of “read-made steps” and using the entire 
body to make gestures as part of his “five principles.” Along with choreographing  
Petrushka 
 and  
The 
Firebird 
, he also created a ballet to a Saint-Saens piece he happened to be playing on the mandolin at the 
time. For 10 points, name this Russian choreographer of  
Le Spectre de la Rose 
 and  
Les Sylphides 
, who 
choreographed  
The Dying Swan 
 for Anna Pavlova. 
ANSWER: Michel  
Fokine 
140-13-83-04118 
19. Each chapter of a sociological work analyzing these people is preceded by a bar of music from a 
different \"sorrow song.\" The experience of being one of these people was chronicled by an author who 
befriended a shoe-shiner and spent several weeks hitchhiking and traveling on Greyhound buses after 
undergoing cosmetic medical treatment. One of the first sociological works about these people describes 
the \"double consciousness\" they must live with. They are the subject of a John Howard Griffin book about 
being one of them \"like me\" and Gunnar Myrdal's  
An American Dilemma 
. For 10 points, name this 
minority whose \"Souls\" were written about by W.E.B. Dubois. 
ANSWER:  
black 
 folk [or  
black 
 people; or  
African-Americans 
; do not accept or prompt on \"Africans\"] 
020-13-83-04119 
NASAT 2013     4     Page  4 of 11 
20. For a closed loop, this quantity can be found by taking the line integral of the Lorentz force per unit 
charge. For an electrochemical cell, this quantity is equal to the negative change in Gibbs free energy over 
number of moles of electrons times Faraday's constant. This quantity is generated when two dissimilar 
metals are joined together in the Seebeck effect. For a wound coil of wire, this quantity is equal to the 
number of coils times the time derivative of magnetic flux in a single coil by Faraday’s law of induction. 
For 10 points, name this quantity usually denoted with a script \"e\" that is defined as the work per unit 
charge required to produce an electric potential difference. 
ANSWER:  
emf 
 [or  
electromotive force 
; or  
voltage 
; prompt on electromotive  
work per unit charge 
; 
prompt on  
cell potential 
] 
066-13-83-04120 
21. Immediately before this event, the protagonist is shown a copy of a “Hopalong Cassidy” book which 
features such handwritten notes as “read one improving book per week.” This event concludes with a man 
wiping his glasses and saying, “the poor son-of-a-bitch.” Shortly before this event, the novel’s protagonist 
goes to the Swastika Holding Company to meet a criminal. One man asks the protagonist to return his 
tennis shoes while refusing to come to this event, and the protagonist also fails to convince Ewing 
Klipspringer or Meyer Wolfsheim to attend. The only people who attend it are “Owl-Eyes,” the victim’s 
father, and Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name this event in an F. Scott Fitzgerald novel in which the title 
character is memorialized. 
ANSWER: Jay  
Gatsby’s funeral 
 [or James  
Gatz’s funeral 
] 
052-13-83-04121 
22. One model partially due to this physicist implements a modification threshold that varies as a 
super-linear function of the previous activity of a cell; that threshold is said to be \"sliding.\" That model is of 
synaptic plasticity and was developed with Bienenstock and Munro. This physicist theorized that vibrations 
in a lattice could interact with electrons to create a positive charge density and create an attractive force. He 
developed a theory with two other physicists that describes the electron-phonon interaction; that theory is a 
microscopic theory of superconductivity and was developed with Schrieffer and Bardeen. For 10 points, 
identify this physicist who names \"pairs\" of electrons coupled over a range of hundreds of nanometers. 
ANSWER: Leon  
Cooper 
189-13-83-04122 
23. During this event, Minucius accidentally injured Rubrius by hitting him in the thigh. One of the 
justifications for this event came from a prophecy involving the conquest of Parthia. This event began with 
Tilius Cimber's inquiries on his brother's exile. Trebonius was responsible for keeping one man away from 
this event, which caused the Liberators' civil war. Its target had recently been named  
dictator perpetuo 
 and 
reacted to one man's participation in this incident by supposedly saying “You too, child?” For 10 points, 
name this killing of a prominent Roman led by Cassius and Brutus that took place on the Ides of March. 
ANSWER:  
assassination 
 of Gaius Julius  
Caesar 
 [accept other words for \"assassination\" such as  
killing 
] 
192-13-83-04123 
NASAT 2013     4     Page  5 of 11 
NASAT 2013 
Round 4 
Bonuses 
1. During this event, nobles besieged in the citadel of Meaux were relieved by forces under Gaston 
Phoebus, and the city was burned down in retribution. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French peasants' revolt led by Guillaume Cale and supported by Etienne Marcel, which 
threw France into chaos in the middle of the Hundred Years' War. 
ANSWER:  
Jacquerie 
[10] This nobleman tricked Guillaume Cale into a supposed parley at Mello, then had him beheaded. This 
treacherous king of Navarre was jailed by John II for trying to help the Dauphin overthrow him, and later 
turned against the Dauphin to get his hands on Normandy. 
ANSWER:  
Charles the Bad 
 [or  
Charles II 
 of Navarre; prompt on  
Charles 
] 
[10] The Jacquerie took place after John II was captured at the Battle of Poitiers, whose victor was this 
English prince nicknamed for the color of his armor. 
ANSWER:  
Edward the Black Prince 
 [or  
Edward of Woodstock 
; prompt on  
Edward 
] 
080-13-83-04201  
2. According to the narrator of this novel, it was translated from Arabic chronicles written by Cide Hamete 
Benengeli. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel. A sequel to its first section was written by an impostor named Alonso Fernandez de 
Avellaneda. 
ANSWER:  
Don Quixote 
 [or  
The Ingenious Gentleman  Don Quixote  of La Mancha 
; or  
El Ingenioso 
Hidalgo  Don Quijote  de la Mancha 
] 
[10] Cervantes's real second part of the novel begins with Sancho Panza and Don Quixote discussing the 
first part, including inconsistencies about this character's disappearance. This character is at one point 
stolen by Gines de Pasamonte. 
ANSWER:  
Dapple 
 [or Sancho's  
donkey 
] 
[10] Also in Part 2, Sancho convinces his master that a group of peasant girls are really this woman and her 
maids. This woman from El Toboso is glorified by Don Quixote and never actually appears in the novel. 
ANSWER:  
Dulcinea 
 del Toboso 
190-13-83-04202  
3. In this case, Potter Stewart wrote a concurring opinion mentioning his ideas from  
McLaughlin v. Florida 
. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1967 Supreme Court case in which a black woman and white man's marriage was found 
constitutional, despite violating the Racial Integrity Act of 1924. 
ANSWER:  
Loving  v. Virginia 
[10]  
Loving v. Virginia 
 occurred during the court of this Chief Justice, who held that position from 1953 to 
1969, presiding over  
Brown v. Board of Education 
 and  
Miranda v. Arizona 
. 
ANSWER: Earl  
Warren 
[10] The  
Loving 
 case overturned this 1883 decision that upheld a Southern state's anti-miscegination 
principles. Its namesake was involved in a sexual relationship with a white woman named Mary Cox. 
ANSWER:  
Pace  v. Alabama 
192-13-83-04203  
NASAT 2013     4     Page  6 of 11 
4. After this man’s death, his partner founded the non-profit group AIDES to promote HIV awareness. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this French philosopher who studied prisons in his book  
Discipline and Punish 
, but may be best 
known for his six-volume  
The History of Sexuality. 
ANSWER: Paul-Michel  
Foucault 
[10] This 1966 Foucault book begins with an analysis of the painting  
Las Meninas 
 and claims that all 
periods have underlying conditions of truth that define what is acceptable discourse. 
ANSWER:  
The  Order of Things : An Archaeology of the Human Sciences 
[10] Foucault’s secondary thesis was a translation of this other author’s book  
Anthropology from a 
Pragmatic Point of View 
, a textbook compiled from his lectures. 
ANSWER: Immanuel  
Kant 
052-13-83-04204  
5. This state of matter consists of charged particles. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this fourth state of matter that is commonly found in stars. 
ANSWER:  
plasma 
[10] A tokamak uses this phenomenon to confine plasmas in a torus shape. Using this phenomenon for 
confinement is one of the two main branches of fusion research along with inertial confinement. 
ANSWER:  
magnetic field 
[10] The conditions under which a fusion reaction will create more energy than its input is the Lawson 
criterion, which is usually stated as a product of this quantity and confinement time. 
ANSWER: ion  
density 
066-13-83-04205  
6. The finale of this work features a \"battle\" between two sets of timpani. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this symphony, whose nickname is an English translation of the word  
Uudslukkelige, 
 which, in 
a fuller connotation, describes the human will to live. 
ANSWER:  
Inextinguishable  Symphony, Op. 26, FS 76 
 [or Carl  
Nielsen's 4th  Symphony 
] 
[10] In the symphony, Nielsen replaced this kind of movement with a  
Poco allegretto 
. This kind of 
movement, often the third in a given composition, is typically fast-moving and playful. 
ANSWER:  
scherzo 
[10] Another Danish composer was Dietrich Buxtehude, who was a virtuoso of this instrument, for which 
Bach's  
Toccata and Fugue 
 is written. 
ANSWER: pipe  
organ 
192-13-83-04206  
7. This condition was first proposed by Kurt Goldstein in his work  
The Organism. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this state of being \"everything that one is capable of becoming,\" according to another 
psychologist, who placed it above \"Esteem\" in his most famous construct. 
ANSWER:  
self-actualization 
[10] Maslow's hierarchy of needs was first proposed in a paper titled for \"A Theory of Human\" this 
concept. Another Maslow work expounding on the hierarchy paired this concept with personality. 
ANSWER:  
motivation 
[10] This reformulation of the hierarchy of needs grouped its levels into three categories, from which it 
receives its three-letter name. It was constructed by Clayton Alderfer. 
ANSWER:  
ERG 
 theory [or  
Existence, Relatedness and Growth 
 theory] 
192-13-83-04207  
NASAT 2013     4     Page  7 of 11 
8. The title character of this work travels to Egypt with his sister Nekayah and the poet Imlac. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this tale about a prince who gets bored of his homeland after being confined in a palace all his 
life. Its final chapter is a humorous \"conclusion, in which nothing is concluded.\" 
ANSWER:  
Rasselas 
 [or  
The History of  Rasselas,  Prince of Abissinia 
] 
[10] This author of  
A Dictionary of the English Language 
 and the poem \"The Vanity of Human Wishes\" 
wrote  
Rasselas. 
 James Boswell notably wrote a biography of him. 
ANSWER: Samuel  
Johnson 
[10] In this novel by another author, Helen Burns reads  
Rasselas 
 while attending Lowood School with the 
protagonist. That protagonist later takes up a position as Adele's tutor at Thornfield Hall. 
ANSWER:  
Jane Eyre 
192-13-83-04208  
9. Artists from this empire painted such religious scenes as the deesis. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this empire, whose artists were incredibly fond of producing gold-heavy icons of Christ and 
Mary, which predominated Western painting until the end of the 13th century. 
ANSWER:  
Byzantine 
 Empire [or  
Eastern Roman 
 Empire; prompt on  
Roman 
 Empire alone] 
[10] The first major work to break from Byzantine tradition was this gigantic 1306 altarpiece 
commissioned from the city of Siena from Duccio. It was dismantled and sawn up four centuries later. 
ANSWER:  
Maesta 
[10] Several Proto-Renaissance paintings by Giotto, including his  
Lamentation 
, are found in this religious 
building in Padua. 
ANSWER:  
Arena Chapel 
 [or  
Scrovegni Chapel 
; or  
Cappella degli Scrovegni 
] 
020-13-83-04209  
10. Answer some questions about an important neural process, for 10 points each: 
[10] This neural process begins with rapid depolarization in the rising phase. The firing frequency of this 
process reflects the magnitude of the depolarizing current, and it is followed by the absolute refractory 
period. 
ANSWER:  
action potential 
[10] Depolarization causes this protein's \"gate\" to be opened. This structure has four domains, each with six 
transmembrane alpha helices, and Toshio Narahashi discovered that tetrodoxin from the ovaries of puffer 
fish could selectively block this structure. 
ANSWER: voltage-gated  
sodium 
 ion  
channel 
[10] Bert Sakmann and Erwin Neher developed this technique, which allows one to record ionic currents 
through ion channels. It involves applying an electrode to a channel while voltages are applied across a 
membrane. 
ANSWER:  
patch clamp 
 method 
189-13-83-04210  
NASAT 2013     4     Page  8 of 11 
11. This mathematician's second proof of the uncountability of the reals used his namesake diagonal 
argument. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this inventor of set theory. 
ANSWER: Georg Ferdinand Ludwig Philipp  
Cantor 
[10] Cantor introduced these numbers that are larger than all finite numbers but are not infinite. The aleph 
numbers, which denote the cardinality of a set, are one example of this type of number. 
ANSWER:  
transfinite 
 numbers 
[10] Cantor's early work dealt with the uniqueness of representing a function as a trigonometric one of 
these. These things are the sums of the terms of a sequence. 
ANSWER:  
series 
066-13-83-04211  
12. Answer the following about the lesser known Crusades, for 10 points each. 
[10] The Seventh Crusade technically began after this holy city fell to the Muslims yet again, which 
inspired little reaction. Earlier, Richard III and Saladin signed a treaty allowing Christians to enter this city. 
ANSWER:  
Jerusalem 
 [or  
Yerushalayim 
; or  
Bayt al-Muqaddas 
; or  
Al-Quds 
] 
[10] The Seventh and Eighth Crusades were led by this French king, who tried to ally with the Mongols. He 
died in Africa from disease during the Eighth Crusade. 
ANSWER:  
Louis IX 
 [or  
Saint Louis 
; prompt on  
Louis 
] 
[10] The Ninth Crusade effectively just ended when this prince opted to return home after hearing of his 
father's death. Shortly after returning home, he ordered a census called the Hundred Rolls. 
ANSWER:  
Edward I 
 [or  
Edward Longshanks 
; prompt on  
Edward 
] 
052-13-83-04212  
13. One character in this story learns all she knows about her lover's culture from her co-worker, Laxmi. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this story about the relationship between the white woman Miranda and her Indian boyfriend 
Dev. It's title is a word Dev whispered to Miranda in the Mapparium. 
ANSWER: \" 
Sexy 
\" 
[10] \"Sexy\" is one of the stories in  
Interpreter of Maladies, 
 a collection by this Indian-American author of  
Unaccustomed Earth 
 and  
The Namesake. 
ANSWER: Jhumpa  
Lahiri 
[10] The protagonist of  
The Namesake 
 is named after this short story writer. 
ANSWER: Nikolai  
Gogol 
192-13-83-04213  
14. Name the following about animals found in Native American mythology, for 10 points each: 
[10] This canine trickster, a recurring figure in Western Native American myths, was said by the Navajo to 
have been given the name “First Angry” by the first man. 
ANSWER:  
Coyote 
[10] The Lakota claimed that this avian fought the Unktehila, while Pacific Northwest tribes say it caused 
earthquakes and tsunamis when it battled against the whale. It is depicted on top of totem poles. 
ANSWER:  
thunderbird 
s 
[10] In Inuit mythology, marine mammals such as seals and whales were created either when Sedna’s 
father cut off these body parts or when they fell off themselves due to freezing. 
ANSWER:  
fingers 
140-13-83-04214  
NASAT 2013     4     Page  9 of 11 
15. In this novel, Leo's disappearance in a mountain range causes a group to panic. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel whose protagonist joins \"The League,\" a conglomeration of great talents such as 
Mozart and Plato, as they take the title expedition to find the \"ultimate Truth.\" 
ANSWER:  
The  Journey to the East 
 [or  
Die  Morgenlandfahrt 
] 
[10]  
The Journey to the East 
 is a work by this German author of  
Steppenwolf 
 and  
Siddhartha. 
ANSWER: Hermann  
Hesse 
[10] This protagonist of Hesse's  
The Glass Bead Game 
 gains the title \"Magister Ludi\" while becoming one 
of the most famous people in Castalia. This character travels to Mariafels and learns under the Music 
Master. 
ANSWER: Joseph  
Knecht 
 [or  
Joseph 
 Knecht] 
192-13-83-04215  
16. Answer the following about paying for health insurance, for 10 points each. 
[10] Along with a copayment, this is a type of payment that falls under the cateogory of \"cost sharing\" in 
insurance. It is the amount an insured person must pay before any benefits are actually payable by the plan. 
ANSWER:  
deductible 
[10] Medicaid, which often provides health insurance financing for the indigent, automatically finances 
families with children who receive benefits from this program, which was created under Clinton's Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act. 
ANSWER:  
TANF 
 [or  
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families 
] 
[10] This food-named policy under Medicare Part D requires a beneficiary to pay the full cost of drugs until 
a previously designated level of spending is reached. The ACA will seek to eliminate this by 2020. 
ANSWER: the Medicare Part D \" 
donut hole 
\" 
189-13-83-04216  
17. Ahmed Ben Bella formed one faction of this political party after it had achieved independence for the 
country in which it was founded. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this party that sought liberation from French control for a certain African country. They 
promulgated the Oran massacre of 1962 and separated their brand of nationalism from the Pieds-Noirs. 
ANSWER:  
FLN 
 [or  
National Liberation Front 
; or  
Front de Liberation Nationale 
] 
[10] The FLN originated in what became this country, which later fought the Sand War with Morocco. The 
Cafe Wars occurred between the FLN and another party in this country, the MNA. 
ANSWER: People's Democratic Republic of  
Algeria 
 [or Al Jumhuriyah  
al Jaza'ir 
iyah ad Dimuqratiyah 
ash Sha'biyah] 
[10] The FLN signed these agreements with France in 1962, ending the Algerian War. The OAS attempted 
to assassinate Charles de Gaulle for his involvement in signing this treaty. 
ANSWER:  
Evian 
 Accords [accept synonyms for \"accords\" such as \"agreements\"] 
192-13-83-04217  
18. Artificial islands on this lake are known as the Uros. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this highest navigable lake in the world, a lake in the Andes on the border of Peru and Bolivia. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Titicaca 
[10] This other South American Lake is located in the Altiplano Mountains in Bolivia. It is noted for its 
extremely high salinity rate and most of its water comes from a river that flows from Titicaca. 
ANSWER: Lake  
Poopo 
[10] This river drains Lake Titicaca and has its mouth at the Poopo, although it also flows into the 
amusingly named Lake Uru Uru. 
ANSWER:  
Desaguadero 
 River 
052-13-83-04218  
NASAT 2013     4     Page  10 of 11 
19. This man partnered with the inventor Nicephore Niepce, whose design he refined for his own best 
known invention. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this man who came up with a procedure of refining a silver-coated copper plate over iodine and 
mercury vapor, resulting in the faint appearance of a reversed image. 
ANSWER: Louis-Jacques-Mande  
Daguerre 
[10] The invention of the daguerrotype heralded the birth of this art form, which was practiced by Ansel 
Adams and popularized by Kodak founder George Eastman. 
ANSWER:  
photography 
 [accept more specific forms] 
[10] This street photographer, a contemporary of Henri Cartier-Bresson, persuaded a pair of actors to lock 
lips for his iconic image  
Kiss by the Hotel De Ville 
. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Doisneau 
192-13-83-04219  
20. Answer some questions about Sn2 reactions in organic chemistry. For 10 points each: 
[10] An Sn2 reaction is quite unfavorable if the electrophilic carbon has three of these simple alkyl groups 
bonded to it. This group is composed of a carbon bonded to three hydrogens. 
ANSWER:  
methyl 
 group 
[10] Both Sn1 and Sn2 reactions hinge on the use of one of these substituents, which are initially bonded to 
the electrophilic carbon but ultimately depart. Tosylate and mesylate are excellent examples of these types 
of substituents. 
ANSWER:  
leaving group 
s 
[10] If you react an alkyl halide with a sufficiently basic nucleophile, the Sn2 reaction competes with this 
class of reaction, in which a leaving group and a hydrogen are lost from adjacent carbons, yielding an 
alkene. 
ANSWER:  
elimination 
 reaction [accept  
E1 
 or  
E2 
] 
189-13-83-04220  
21. This man referred to Barack Obama as \"young, handsome, and even tanned.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this media tycoon and three-time prime minister of Italy. In 2011, he was accused of soliciting 
underage prostitution. 
ANSWER: Silvio  
Berlusconi 
[10] Berlusconi is the current leader of this party, which he formed by merging his earlier Forza Italia party 
with the National Alliance. 
ANSWER:  
People of Freedom 
 [or  
Popolo Della Liberta 
; or  
PDL 
] 
[10] In 2007, Italy's state-owned energy company made an agreement with this large Russian state-owned 
gas company to build the South Stream pipeline. 
ANSWER: Open Joint Stock Company  
Gazprom 
 [or  
Gazovaya Promyshlennost 
] 
052-13-83-04221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2013     4     Page  11 of 11 
