NASAT 2011 
Round 18 
Tossups 
1. Christodoulou showed that these do not increase the area of a black hole's event horizon. The Markov 
type of these must have detailed balance and Crook's fluctuation theorem applies to dynamics with the 
microscopic form. They have no dissipative effects and no temperature gradients transporting heat, 
therefore no spontaneous occurrence has this property. Carnot's theorem applies to engines that have the 
property of these processes. Each point in these processes are in continuous equilibrium. For 10 points, 
name these processes that permit returning the system to its original state after performing the process. 
ANSWER:  
reversible 
 process[accept word forms] 
001-11-30-18102 
2. This artist didn’t create a picture of a pineapple until back in a New York studio despite being sent to 
Hawaii by Dole to paint one. Earlier, this artist simulated the glare from a camera in depicting  
The Shelton 
with Sunspots 
, and a similar effect was displayed in another depiction of a New York skyscraper,  
Radiator 
Building--Night 
. In a work typical of this artist’s later style, red bars were added to the borders of a 1931 
canvas in order to create a “Great American Painting.” That painting was titled  
Cow’s Skull: Red, White 
and Blue 
. She was depicted in several photographs by her husband, the artist of  
The Steerage 
, Alfred 
Stieglitz. For 10 points, name this New Mexico-based artist best known for her close-up paintings of 
flowers. 
ANSWER: Georgia Totto  
O’Keeffe 
094-11-30-18103 
3. This character applies for a secretarial position with Mr. Gregsby. He injures Sir Mulberry Hawk, who 
later kills Lord Verisopht in a duel. He is helped many times by the clerk Newman Noggs, and is given a 
job in a counting house after befriending the kindly Cheeryble brothers. This character is given a job 
adapting French tragedies by Vincent Crummles, who runs an acting troupe. After a will hidden by Arthur 
Gride is discovered, this character marries Madeline Bray. His sister Kate is forced to work in a 
dressmaking shop while this character beats up Wackford Squeers and befriends Smike. For 10 points, 
name this character who clashes with his greedy uncle Ralph, the protagonist and title character of a 
Dickens novel. 
ANSWER: Nicholas  
Nickleby 
 [or  
Nicholas 
 Nickleby] 
015-11-30-18104 
4. The author’s meeting with Friedrich Majer is believed to have inspired this text, whose second book 
notes that the trajectory of a bullet and the inner workings of the brain are just as incomprehensible. One 
section of this text describes how individuation only gives rise to violence with the example of the bulldog 
ant, which attacks itself when cut in half. This work argues that every action comprises two aspects: an 
interior \"blind striving,\" and an exterior objectification of that striving. Inspired by the Upanishads, this 
work rejects Kantian ethics for its dismissal of inner experiences, or what he referred to as the thing in 
itself. For 10 points, name this work by Arthur Schopenhauer. 
ANSWER:  
The  World as Will and Idea 
 [or  
The  World as Will and Representation 
; or  
The  World as Will 
and Presentation 
; or  
Die  Welt als Wille und Vortsellung 
] 
064-11-30-18105 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. One chapter in this work discusses how its subjects respond to offers of cigarettes. Another chapter 
discusses Percival Lowell’s study of a ritual called “hardening oneself” that involves bathing in freezing 
water. Those chapters are “Debtor to the Ages and the World” and “The Cirlce of Human Feelings.” This 
work examines how the true feelings may not match the “façade,” or public behavior, of the subjects, who 
are bound by a strong sense of duty called  
giri 
. This work also distinguishes Western “guilt culture” from 
Eastern “shame culture.” For 10 points, name this study of the  
Patterns of Japanese Culture 
 by Ruth 
Benedict. 
ANSWER:  
The  Chrysanthemum and the Sword : Patterns of Japanese Culture 
079-11-30-18106 
6. During this ruler’s reign, forces under the Earl of Pembroke helped capture the city of San Quentin, 
contributing to the Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis. This monarch also lost Calais to a force under Francis, 
Duke of Guise. Legislation issued by this monarch included the First and Second Statue of Repeal. This 
leader suppressed Wyatt’s Rebellion, and appointed Reginald Pole Archbishop of Canterbury. This 
monarch exiled Quaker founder George Fox, whose  
Book of Martyrs 
 described the “Smithfield Fires” and 
the deaths of John Rogers, Thomas Cranmer, and others. She suffered two phantom pregnancies after her 
marriage to Prince Philip, the son of Charles V of Spain. For 10 points, name this Tudor monarch who 
briefly reinstituted Catholicism before being succeeded by her sister Elizabeth I. 
ANSWER:  
Mary I 
 [or  
Mary Tudor 
; or  
Bloody Mary 
; prompt on  
Mary 
] 
015-11-30-18107 
7. Arginase, an enzyme used in the final step of the urea cycle, contains this metal. A certain compound 
containing both potassium and this metal is known as Condy’s crystal and in organic chemistry is used as 
an alternative to osmium tetroxide in a basic solution to convert an alkene to a 1,2-diol, or as an alternative 
to chromium-based complexes to react an alcohol to a carboxylic acid. The oxygen evolving complex in 
chloroplasts has a center with calcium and this metal. In the body, this metal is paired with iron in a class of 
superoxide dismutase found in the mitochondria. This metal is central to the testing of alkenes in Baeyer’s 
reagent, which involves the reduction of its +7 oxidation state to its +2 oxidation state. For 10 points, name 
this transition metal with chemical symbol Mn. 
ANSWER:  
manganese 
064-11-30-18108 
8. This political party was opposed by the White Rose movement, a group of students who started a leaflet 
campaign against this party. Foundational texts for this political party included “The Myth of the 20th 
Century,” written by the Estonian-born Alfred Rosenberg, who is considered the official philosopher of this 
political party. This political party’s official song, “The Flag Up High,” was also named in honor of Horst 
Wessel, a member of this party who died in a street fight with Communists. Members of this political party, 
such as Ernst Rohm, were killed during an internal purge called the Night of the Long Knives, and this 
party’s leader wrote a book titled “My Struggle.” For 10 points, name this political party whose salute was 
“Seig Heil!” and which was led by Adolf Hitler. 
ANSWER:  
Nazi 
 Party [or  
National Socialist German Worker’s 
 Party; or  
Nationalsozialistische 
Deutsche Arbeiterpart 
] 
021-11-30-18109 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. This author wrote a novel about the chemist Prokop, who creates a dangerous explosive which he names 
Krakatit, after the volcano Krakatoa. His best known work concludes when Alquist declares Primus and 
Helena are the new Adam and Eve. He wrote an allegorical play that begins when a Tramp meets a Pedant 
chasing a butterfly. This author of  
The Insect Play 
 also wrote a satirical science fiction novel describing the 
sex life of the newts, who are at war with humanity, while he wrote a play that begins when Helena Glory 
arrives at an island factory hoping to incite a rebellion agaisnt Harry Domin. For 10 points, name this 
Czech writer who coined the word \"robot\" in his play  
R.U.R. 
ANSWER: Karel  
Capek 
024-11-30-18110 
10. This figure gathered a group of fifteen physicians for his mortally wounded friend to no effect, though a 
sixteenth got that friend briefly into fighting form after three days in a bath. This figure's son had three 
curses put on him: not being able to turn back, refuse a fight, or tell his name, which resulted in him killing 
his son. This man killed his friend Ferdiad and yielded to his foster-father Fergus in one battle. This hero of 
the  
Tain 
 entered a berserker rage to fight off the forces of Queen Medb. For 10 points, name this hero who 
wielded the spear Gae Bulga during the Cattle Raid of Cooley in the Ulster Cycle. 
ANSWER:  
Cuchulainn 
 [or  
Setanta 
] 
023-11-30-18111 
11. Joseph Anderson's use of a fifty-strong battalion of armed guards allowed the Tredegar Iron Works to 
survive this event, which began shortly after Richard Ewell concentrated all available tobacco in certain 
buildings. News of it was leaked to the public early when caches of government documents were spotted in 
the streets in front of buildings. This event was ordered by men who immediately fled on the last available 
train to Danville, and it was followed a week later by the surrender at Appomatox. For 10 points, identify 
this attempt to avoid weapons and strategic buildings from falling into Union hands, which spread out of 
control and destroyed the capital of the Confederacy. 
ANSWER: the  
burning of Richmond 
 by retreating Confederate troops in 1865 [accept obvious 
equivalents; accept the  
fall of Richmond 
 or the  
capture of Richmond 
 or anything along those lines, too] 
019-11-30-18112 
12. This molecule is released by climbing fiber activation of Purkinje cells, and Huntington’s disease is 
partially caused by the loss of cells that secrete this substance in the striatum. It is produced in a reaction 
that uses the enzymes GAD and pyridoxal phosphate, or vitamin B6 and its receptor works by widening a 
chloride channel, which in turn neutralizes norepinephrine. Benzodiazepenes and barbituates work by 
binding to receptors for this molecule, which is synthesized by decarboxylating glutamate. For 10 points, 
name this inhibitory mammalian neurotransmitter with a four letter abbreviation. 
ANSWER:  
GABA 
 [or  
gamma-aminobutyric acid 
] 
064-11-30-18113 
13. One section of this work explains that metaphors are used in poetry because representation is delightful 
to men. The author of this work spent seven long years creating it, after which he had a revelation so 
powerful that \"all that [he had] written seem[ed] like straw.\" The purpose of this work is explained by a 
quote from Paul, who said \"Like babes in Christ I fed you milk and not meat\" in the Corinthians, which this 
work quotes several times after the repeated phrase \"but on the contrary.\" Natural Law is described in the 
second portion of this work, in which a videtur, sed contra, and responsio comprise an article, many of 
which comprise a question, many of which comprise a major theological topic. Five arguments for the 
existence of God and many citations by Aristotle comprise, for 10 points, what major treatise of St. Thomas 
Aquinas? 
ANSWER:  
Summa Theologica 
 [or  
Compendium of Theology 
; or  
Theological Compendium 
; prompt on 
\"Summa\"] 
020-11-30-18114 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. The amount of error created by applying this theorem to intermediate values is the subject of the 
Berry-Esseen theorem. The Cramer-Wold theorem can be used to generalize this in a multivariate manner. 
The de Moivre-Laplace theorem is a special case of this. One statement of this is named for Feller and 
Lindeberg and this is true when Lyapunov's condition holds. A rule of thumb resulting from this is that one 
should have a minimum of 30 in a sample when the population is non-Gaussian. When sampling, this 
theorem implies a distribution with standard deviation sigma over square root n. For 10 points, name this 
theorem that implies as sample sizes get larger, the distribution of sample means approaches a normal 
distribution. 
ANSWER:  
central limit 
 theorem 
001-11-30-18115 
15. The leader of this group was arrested at No 17 Fisherman’s Terrace. Another member of this group 
ordered the printing of an article about education reform after the death of one of their opponents, 
attempting to distract the populace. One of their opponents was denounced as a “capitalist roader”. One 
member of this group published an article on the opera “Hai Rui Dismissed From Office.” This group was 
captured after Hua Guofeng came into power. They were thought to be in power during the later stages of 
the Cultural Revolution. For 10 points, name this group of Chinese politicians led by Jiang Qing, or 
Madame Mao, named for the number of members in the group. 
ANSWER:  
Gang of Four 
048-11-30-18116 
16. This role was originated by Célestine Galli-Marié, who allegedly fainted during one performance after 
having a premonition of its creator’s death. This character sings the song “Les tringles des sistres se 
tintaient” with her friends Frasquita and Mercedes. She at first refuses to help the smugglers Dancaire and 
Remendado. This character sings of wanting to go to the inn of Lillias Pastia in the “Seguidilla Aria.” She 
reveals that she has seen her own death while reading Tarot cards in the “Cards aria.” This singer of the 
“Habanera” is stabbed by the soldier Don Jose as the crowd at an arena serenades Escamillo with the 
“Toreador Song.” For 10 points, name this Spanish gypsy, the title character of Bizet’s greatest opera. 
ANSWER:  
Carmen 
015-11-30-18117 
17. The ceremonial single-piece, sashed dress worn by both genders in this country is known as the \"del,\" 
and a traditional building here has a toono opening for smoke and is a rounded tent called a \"ger.\" This 
country's highest point is Khuiten Peak, which is found in the western portion of this nation; its largest lake 
is Khovsgol Nuur. Another lake in this country, Uvs Nuur, lies near the city of Ulaangom. The sacred Tuul 
River flows through this nation's capital city, and the southern portion of this country contains parts of the 
Gobi Desert. For 10 points, name this Asian country that lies between Russia and China, with capital at 
Ulan Bator. 
ANSWER:  
Mongolia 
088-11-30-18118 
18. In this novel, the central female character is forbidden from asking Oscar Wilde to sign her gazelle-skin 
glove. The central male character in this novel confesses to having an affair with Barbara Lynch. Another 
male character learns the violin from the German Lotario Thugut, which he attempts to use to win back his 
former lover. At the beginning of this work, we learn how one of the main characters fell to his death 
chasing his pet parrot. At the end of this work, Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza make love aboard a 
river boat and convince the captain the wave a yellow flag at port. For 10 points, name this Gabriel Garcia 
Marquez novel that includes the character Juvenal Urbino, a doctor who hopes to eradicate the title disease. 
ANSWER:  
Love in the Time of Cholera 
 [or  
El  Amor en los Tiempos del Colera 
] 
064-11-30-18119 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. A tourist is scandalized to see this character sitting, un-chaperoned in the Doria Palace looking at 
Velasquez’s portrait of Innocent X. This sister of Randolph earlier surprises her courier Eugenio when she 
goes for a boat ride with another man to the Chillon Castle in Vevey, Switzerland. This character from 
Schenectady, New York dismays Mrs. Walker and Mrs. Costello by carrying on a mysterious relationship 
with the Italian gentleman Giovanelli. This character dies after contracting malaria during a nighttime visit 
to the Colosseum with Giovanelli, which triggers Frederick Winterbourne's revelation that he loved her. 
For 10 points, name this title character of a novella by Henry James. 
ANSWER:  
Daisy 
 Miller [prompt Miller] 
079-11-30-18120 
20. Vincent D'Indy's  
Symphony on a French Mountain Air 
 begins with a melody played by this instrument. 
This instrument plays a theme representing Central Asian merchants in Alexander Borodin's symphonic 
poem  
In the Steppes of Central Asia 
. The first bars of the love theme from Tchaikovsky's  
Romeo and Juliet 
Fantasy Overture 
 are played by the violas and this instrument, which plays the melody of the \"call to the 
dairy cows\" in the William Tell Overture. It also plays the opening solo of the second movement Largo in 
Dvorak's New World Symphony. For 10 points, name this double-reed woodwind pitched in F, whose pitch 
is a perfect fifth lower than its closest relative, the oboe. 
ANSWER:  
English horn 
 [or  
Cor anglais 
] 
004-11-30-18121 
21. This man was forced to lower taxes in response to the Gin Riots. He managed to convince his hawkish 
monarch not to engage in the War of the Polish Succession, and put the Lord Chamberlain in charge of 
censoring the theatre with the Licensing Act. After the death of his ally Queen Caroline, this man 
experienced a decline in popularity caused by events like the Porteous Riots and the Cartagena Disaster, 
which occurred during the War of Jenkins Ear. Through his posts of First Lord of the Treasury and 
Chancellor of the Exchequer, he controlled affairs during the reigns of George I and George II. For 10 
points, name this man often regarded as the first Prime Minister of England. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Walpole 
015-11-30-18122 
22. Some of these make use of the Illinois Protocol, which is one of many algorithms that make use of the 
four words \"modified,\" \"shared,\" \"exclusive\" and \"invalid\" in order to prevent the \"false sharing\" problem 
inherent in these devices when trying to maintain their coherency. When implementing the write-back ones 
of these, an extra dirty bit is needed to maintain them. They can be direct mapped or set-associative at 
times, which allows them to hold more types of data. These devices exploit both temporal locality and 
spatial locality. For 10 points, identify these devices that store recently used bits of memory in order to 
speed up future access. 
ANSWER:  
cache 
s 
033-11-30-18123 
23. This author wrote a play in which Fred tells the protagonist “there is no truth; there’s only whites and 
blacks” after killing a black man on a train. That play opens with the title character, Lizzie, being asked to 
tell the truth. In another play Olga Lorame encourages Hugo Barine to assassinate a communist leader 
named Hoederer. This author of  
The Respectful Prostitute 
 and  
Dirty Hands 
 wrote a play in which one 
character admits he ran a pacifist newspaper during World War II and another admits that she drowned her 
illegitimate baby in a lake. For 10 points, name this French author who wrote about Inez, Estelle and 
Garcin and included the line “Hell is other people” in his play  
No Exit 
. 
ANSWER: Jean-Paul  
Sartre 
094-11-30-18124 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 18 
Bonuses 
1. Daniel Dennett compared this man to a \"trampoline: you jump on him and he springs back, presenting 
claims twice as trenchant and outrageous.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Rutgers professor who championed a representational theory of mind in  
The Language of 
Thought 
 and espoused functionalism as an alternative to behaviorism in  
Psychological Explanation 
. 
ANSWER: Jerry  
Fodor 
[10] In  
The Mind Doesn't Work That Way 
, Fodor refutes arguments that the complexity of the mind is a 
product of this basic evolutionary mechanism in which more advantageous traits are passed down to more 
offspring. 
ANSWER:  
natural selection 
[10] In  
Psychosemantics 
 and the later  
The Elm and the Expert 
, Fodor tackles this thought experiment of 
Hillary Putnam, in which two worlds are exactly the same except for the chemical composition of water. 
ANSWER:  
Twin Earth 
 thought experiment 
003-11-30-18201 
2. The largest group to use this trail was the “great migration” led by Marcus Whitman in 1843. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this trail which began in Independence, Missouri and ended in its namesake state in the Pacific 
Northwest. 
ANSWER:  
Oregon 
 Trail 
[10] One of the most recognizable landmarks of the Oregon Trail was this Morrill County, Nebraska rock 
formation, in which a pillar shaped rock juts out of hill. 
ANSWER:  
Chimney Rock 
[10] Much of the settlement done by survivors of the Oregon Trail was done along this tributary of the 
Columbia River which runs through Salem, Corvallis, and Eugene. 
ANSWER:  
Willamette 
 River 
015-11-30-18202 
3. This poem suggests answers like \"the monstrous anger of the guns\" and \"the stuttering rifles' rapid rattle\" 
for the opening question. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem, which asks \"what passing-bells for those who die as cattle?\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Anthem for Doomed Youth 
\" 
[10] \"Anthem for Doomed Youth\" and \"Dulce et Decorum Est\" are works written by this poet. 
ANSWER: Wilfred Edward Salter  
Owen 
[10] Owen was greatly influenced by Siegfried Sassoon, who wrote this novel about the childhood of 
George Sherston. Its sequels were titled  
Memoirs of an Infantry Officer 
 and  
Sherston's Progress 
. 
ANSWER:  
Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man 
088-11-30-18203 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. He did a study involving a primate named Sultan that showed a flaw in Thorndike’s puzzle box 
experiment. For 10 points each; 
[10] Name this psychologist who wrote about discovering “insight learning” while examining apes living 
in the Canary Island Anthropoid Station on Tenerife in his book  
 The Mentality of Apes 
. 
ANSWER: Wolfgang  
Kohler 
[10] Wolfgang Kohler was a leader of this psychological school whose practitioners included Kurt Lewin 
and Max Wertheimer. It believed that the psychological whole was greater than its component parts. 
ANSWER:  
Gestalt 
[10] This central law of Gestalt psychology states that the brain integrates diverse stimuli into its simplest 
logical whole. Its German name literally means “precision.” 
ANSWER:  
pragnanz 
109-11-30-18204 
5. This orchestral work opens with the strings playing descending minor thirds, the first of its four themes. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this symphonic scherzo, whose main theme comes to a brief, silent halt, is slowly taken up again 
by the bassoons, and becomes a musical round played increasingly wildly by the the whole orchestra until 
it is stopped by crashing brass chords playing the \"spell\" motif. 
ANSWER:  
The  Sorcerer's Apprentice 
 [or  
L' Apprenti sorcier 
] 
[10] This French composer of the opera  
Ariadne and Bluebeard 
 wrote  
The Sorcerer's Apprentice 
. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Dukas 
[10]  
The Sorcerer's Apprentice 
 is based on a ballad written by this German poet. This author's works also 
inspired Schubert's \"The Erl-King\" and Jules Massenet's opera  
Werther 
. 
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von  
Goethe 
004-11-30-18205 
6. This view is similar in form to Eutychianism. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Christian viewpoint, which claims that Christ has only a single divine nature. 
ANSWER:  
monophysitism 
 [or word forms] 
[10] At the other extreme, Nestorianism was declared a heresy in this 451 church council. 
ANSWER: Council of  
Chalcedon 
[10] The Council of Chalcedon also nullified this 449 council, which had lent support to the Egyptian 
position, and specifically condemned Eutyches. 
ANSWER: Second Council of  
Ephesus 
 [or Robber Synod of  
Ephesus 
] 
064-11-30-18206 
7. This process can be used to split water. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this use of electric current to drive an otherwise non-occurring reaction. 
ANSWER:  
electrolysis 
 [or  
electrolytic 
 cell] 
[10] When analyzing an electrolysis reaction, it is helpful to know this constant equal to the charge on a 
mole of electrons. 
ANSWER:  
Faraday 
's constant 
[10] This electrolytic cell is used to break apart molten sodium chloride in order to obtain sodium. 
ANSWER:  
Downs 
 cell 
001-11-30-18207 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. The final stanza includes the image of \"the gentle serpent, green in the mulberry bush\" and a repeated 
refrain in this poem describes how \"the leaves flying, plunge, and expire.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Allen Tate poem that begins with the speaker describing the title location saying, \"row after 
row with strict impunity the headstones yield their names to the element.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Ode to the Confederate Dead 
\" 
[10] Allen Tate was a member of the Southern Agrarian movement along with this author, who wrote about 
Willie Stark in  
All the King’s Men 
ANSWER: Robert Penn  
Warren 
[10] The members of the group described their literary views in this 1930 collection of essays. 
ANSWER:  
I’ll Take My Stand : The South and the Agrarian Tradition 
064-11-30-18208 
9. Sargon II’s son Sennacherib deported many Jews from this empire. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ancient empire of the Middle East that was eventually conquered by its southern neighbor, 
Babylonia. 
ANSWER:  
Assyria 
n Empire 
[10] This Assyrian capital city, found in modern-day Iraq, makes an appearance in the Book of Jonah. 
ANSWER:  
Ninevah 
[10] The third Assyrian king of this name conquered most of the known world in the 700s BC before his 
defeat by the Babylonians. 
ANSWER:  
Tiglath-Pileser 
079-11-30-18209 
10. PLC cleaves PIP2 to yield DAG and a variant of this molecule with three phosphates attached. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this compound that consists of cyclohexane with a hydroxyl attached to each carbon. 
ANSWER:  
inositol 
[10] Inositol trisphosphate triggers the release of an ion of this element from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. 
That ion plays a critical role in muscle contraction. Absorption of this element is aided by vitamin D. 
ANSWER:  
calcium 
[10] Another signal required for some forms of PKC is a phospholipid composed of this amino acid linked 
to two fatty acids via a phosphate. In chymotrypsin, a residue of this amino acid at position 195 plays a key 
part in catalysis, and like threonine and tyrosine it has a hydroxyl group in its side chain. 
ANSWER:  
serine 
001-11-30-18210 
11. This religion is governed by the Universal House of Justice, which is located in Haifa, Israel. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this faith which holds that Bahaullah was a divine prophet who continued the tradition of 
Muhammad and Jesus. 
ANSWER:  
Baha’i 
sm [or the  
Baha’i 
 Faith_] 
[10] Instructions for the Universal House of Justice were laid out in this holy text by Bahaullah, which is 
known as “the Most Holy Book” and lays out the rules Baha’is should follow. Along with the Book of 
Certitude, it is the chief scripture of Baha’ism. 
ANSWER:  
Kitab-i- Aqdas 
 [or  
The  Book of Laws 
] 
[10] Along with Muhammad and Bahaullah, the chief influence on Baha’ism is this earlier Persian leader 
who founded a namesake religion and took a name meaning “the Gate.” 
ANSWER: the  
Bab 
 [or Siyyid Ali Muhammad  
Shirazi 
] 
015-11-30-18211 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. These objects are given a finite state control to build a push-down automaton. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this data structure that supports push back and pop off operations. They are first in last out, 
unlike a queue. 
ANSWER:  
stack 
[10] Stacks, unlike many other containers, don't usually come with one of these constructs that allows one 
to traverse all the elements of the container. The keyword \"foreach\" in languages like Python achieves this 
task. 
ANSWER:  
iterator 
[10] In C++, iterators are manipulated in a manner reminiscent of this technique where a memory address 
containing data type is manipulated using mathematical operators. 
ANSWER:  
pointer arithmetic 
033-11-30-18212 
13. According to its namesake's equations, its partial derivative with respect to generalized momentum is 
equal to q dot. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this quantity equal to sum of the potential and kinetic energy of the system. 
ANSWER:  
Hamiltonian 
[10] Q dot refers to the derivative of the generalized coordinate with respect to this entity. Taking the 
derivative of velocity with respect to this yields acceleration. 
ANSWER:  
time 
[10] If the partial derivative of H with respect to coordinate qn is 0 meaning pn is constant, the coordinate 
qn has this property. Groups of this type can be generated by a single element. 
ANSWER:  
cyclic 
 coordinate 
001-11-30-18213 
14. The victor at this battle used the reverse slope defense to successfully conceal his troop size from his 
opponent. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this battle, in which one regiment announced \"The Guard dies, it does not surrender!\" at La 
Haye Sainte. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Waterloo 
[10] The Congress of Vienna, which followed the Battle of Waterloo, was chaired by this Austrian 
statesman who drew the spheres of influence in nineteenth-century Europe. 
ANSWER: Klemens Wenzel von  
Metternich 
[10] This aggressive Prussian commander, known as \"Marshall Forward,\" was one of the two chief allied 
commanders at Waterloo along with Wellington, and had previously appeared at Leipzig. 
ANSWER: Gebhard Leberecht von  
Blucher 
081-11-30-18214 
15. He included the popular aria “Una Furtiva Lagrima” in his opera about the peasant Nemorino’s love 
for Adina. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Italian composer of bel canto operas like  
 Lucrezia Borgia 
 and  
The Elixir of Love 
. 
ANSWER: Gaetano  
Donizetti 
[10] In this Donizetti opera based on a Walter scott novel, the love of the title character for Edgardo 
Ravenswood is hampered by a family feud. 
ANSWER:  
Lucia di Lammermoor 
[10] In this Donizetti opera, Doctor Malatesta conspires with Ernesto to make the elderly title character 
consent to the marriage of Norina. 
ANSWER:  
Don Pasquale 
015-11-30-18215 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. Name the following authors who wrote about the Holocaust, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Italian Nobel Laureate described his year in a concentration camp in his memoir  
 If This Is a Man  
published under the title  
 Survival in Auschwitz 
 in America. He also wrote the story collection  
 The 
Periodic Table 
. 
ANSWER: Primo  
Levi 
[10] This cartoonist recorded his father's survival story in the graphic novel  
 Maus 
, which represents the 
Jews as mice and the Nazis as cats. 
ANSWER: Art  
Spiegelman 
[10] This American wrote about a Holocaust survivor who lectures at Columbia in  
Mr. Sammler's Planet 
. 
He also wrote  
Humboldt's Gift 
 and  
The Adventures of Augie March 
. 
ANSWER: Saul  
Bellow 
020-11-30-18216 
17. This man resigned as Prime Minister in 1801, but returned three years later when the Napoleonic Wars 
threatened the United Kingdom. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this PM who ruled for almost twenty years after the American Revolution, and whose father 
was also a Prime Minister. 
ANSWER: William  
Pitt the Younger 
[10] Pitt is often favorably compared to this Prime Minister, who led Britain from 1770 to 1782 until he 
was removed for his failures in the Revolutionary War. 
ANSWER: Frederick  
North 
[10] Pitt had a conversation with this man under his namesake oak in 1788. This man headed the 
parliamentary campaign for the abolition of the slave trade. 
ANSWER: William  
Wilberforce 
015-11-30-18217 
18. Name some Australian novelists, for 10 points each. 
[10] This author rewrote  
Pride and Prejudice 
 in  
The Independence of Miss Mary Bennet 
, and also wrote  
The Thorn Birds 
. 
ANSWER: Colleen  
McCullough 
[10] This author of  
Oscar and Lucinda 
 has won three Miles Franklin Awards and two Booker Prizes. 
ANSWER: Peter  
Carey 
[10] Another Australian novelist is this author of  
Riders in the Chariot 
 and  
The Vivisector 
. 
ANSWER: Patrick  
White 
024-11-30-18218 
19. His secretary, Fawn Hall, was convicted of shredding documents to help his crimes, which, among 
other offenses, violated the Boland Amendment. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this former US Naval Academy boxing champion, who, four years after his conviction for 
obstructing Congress, failed to unseat Virginia Senator Chuck Robb. 
ANSWER: Oliver Laurence  
North 
[10] North’s conviction was part of this larger scandal involving arms sales to Nicaraguan anti-government 
forces. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Contra 
 affair 
[10] Edmund Muskie and Brent Scowcroft were other members of this executive branch panel, led by a 
former Texas Senator, which criticized the Reagan administration in its 1986 report on Iran-Contra. 
ANSWER:  
Tower 
 Commission 
019-11-30-18219 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. In this work, a man wearing a white turban is wielding a hammer and a stake. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting of a Biblical scene in which a lowly figure is saved from being martyred by St. 
Mark. 
ANSWER:  
The  Miracle of the Slave 
 [or  
The  Miracle of St. Mark 
] 
[10] This painter of  
The Miracle of the Slave 
 also created  
The Siege of Asola 
 and a version of the  
Last 
Supper 
. 
ANSWER:  
Tintoretto 
 [or Jacob  
Comin 
; or Jacopo  
Robusti 
] 
[10] This Tintoretto painting shows Hera nursing Heracles as stars shoot into the sky. 
ANSWER:  
The  Origin of the Milky Way 
088-11-30-18220 
21. Consider A, an   by   matrix. For 10 points each: 
n n 
[10] This is the name given to the matrix formed such that the rows of A are the columns of this new matrix 
and vice versa. 
ANSWER:  
transpose 
[10] If A equals A transpose, then A is said to be this kind of matrix. 
ANSWER:  
symmetric 
[10] If each entry of A is equal to its conjugate transpose, A is this kind of matrix. Symmetric matrices are 
a special case of these matrices for real numbers. 
ANSWER:  
Hermitian 
 [or  
self-adjoint 
] 
003-11-30-18221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 18     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
