National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 1 
Tossups 
1. One sect of this religion was founded by Prince Emanuel Edwards.The Twenty-One Points served as the 
foundation for the Routinization of this religion, whose early leaders included Joseph Hibbert, Archibald 
Dunkley, and Leonard Howell. Members of this religion do not use the words “me” and “you;” instead 
they use “I and I.” This religion propounds a salt and condiment-free diet, part of its I-tal code which 
regards the body as a temple. It rejects the concept of a European Jesus, claiming that since Solomon was 
black, so was the Christ. For 10 points, name this religion that regards Haile Selassie as an incarnation of 
God, which is popular in Jamaica. 
ANSWER:  
Rastafari 
anism 
003-09-12-01102 
2. The protagonist of this work meets with a chaplain who tells him the fable of the doorkeeper after an 
Italian businessman fails to show up at the cathedral. Earlier, this work's protagonist meets the tradesman 
Block, a pathetic figure dominated by the lawyer Huld. A nurse named Leni offers to become the lover of 
the protagonist of this work. As the main character of this novel is abducted by two men in black, he sees 
Fraulein Burstner. The protagonist of this novel eventually submits to dying “like a dog.” For 10 points, a 
bank clerk is arrested on his thirtieth birthday and executed on his thirty-first in what novel about Josef K 
by Franz Kafka? 
ANSWER:  
The  Trial 
 [or  
Der  Prozess 
] 
034-09-12-01103 
3. This man proposed the Koryo Confederation which would have resulted in a loose merger between two 
nations, and agents from his nation attempted to assassinate Chun Doo Hwan in Burma in 1983. He died 
prior to attending an unprecedented summit with Kim Young Sam. This man ordered a failed attack on the 
Blue House of a neighboring country. He agreed to the release of the crew of the  
Pueblo 
 at Pammujan in 
1968. This man became chairman of the KWP in 1949, and he instituted the Juche self-reliance principles 
in his nation. For 10 points, name this man who led North Korea from 1948 to 1994, the father of Kim Jong 
Il. 
ANSWER:  
Kim Il Sung 
 [or  
Kim Song Ju 
] 
030-09-12-01104 
4. Modifications to this law have been presented by Paynter and Sassaroli, and those modifications include 
an additive term G and a multiplier called the DPF. It is used in calculating the amount of bilirubin in blood 
plasma, and monochromatic incident radiation is required for this law to hold. The absorption coefficient 
alpha and ratio of the intensities of incident and transmitted light are factors in this law, which also includes 
the molar absorptivity of the sample concerned. For 10 points, name this law that linearly relates the 
absorbance of a sample and the concentration of that sample. 
ANSWER:  
Beer 
-Lambert law 
032-09-12-01105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  1 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. George Pugh and Edson Olds wanted this group to hold an alternative convention in Cincinnati. One 
member of this group, Marcus Pomeroy, wrote that the president was \"the fungus from the corrupt womb 
of bigotry and fanaticism.\" Members were sometimes also known as Butternuts. A speech by their most 
prominent leader provoked the sitting president to describe this group as \"the fire in the rear.\" That leader 
was Clement Vallandigham. Sherman's capture of Atlanta crushed their chances of winning the 1864 
presidential election. For 10 points, name these conservative, anti-war Democrats who called for 
Washington to give in to Confederate demands. 
ANSWER:  
Copperhead 
s [or  
Peace Democrat 
s; or  
Butternuts 
 early] 
063-09-12-01106 
6. This composer controversially used winds and a female choir to voice Christ on the road to Damascus in 
his oratorio  
St. Paul 
. Another of his works includes a \"series of interlocking tritones\" representing a 
drought and includes the hymn \"Baal, we cry to thee.\" This composer quoted the \"Dresden Amen\" 
throughout his fifth symphony, whose fourth movement is based on the hymn \"A Mighty Fortress is Our 
God.\" In 1829, this composer conducted a revival of Bach’s  
St. Matthew Passion 
. This composer of the 
oratorio  
Elijah 
 was inspired by the anniversary of the Augsburg Confession to write his  
Reformation 
Symphony. For 10 points, name this German composer of the  
Scottish Symphony 
 who wrote a memorable  
Wedding March 
 for his incidental music to  
A Midsummer Night’s Dream 
. 
ANSWER: Felix  
Mendelssohn 
015-09-12-01107 
7. The inner section of this region contains objects with Tisserand parameter less than three that are 
dominated by interactions with Jupiter. The original estimate of the size of this system was obtained by 
setting its semi-major axis to the average maximum distance of a set of 19 known orbits. A secondary 
structure that exchanges matter with this one is named for Hill. A hypothetical object that would traverse 
this location with a period of approximately 30 million years is Nemesis. Hypothesized as a reservoir 
necessary because icy objects cannot reside long near the sun, this structure is currently thought to begin at 
about 50,000 astronomical units. For 10 points, name this structure past that defines the gravitational outer 
edge of the solar system, the source of long-period comets. 
ANSWER: the  
Oort 
 cloud 
064-09-12-01108 
8. This document claimed that the person to whom it was addressed had refused a golden crown in favor of 
a phrygium. The creator of this document claims to have served as that addressee’s groom and to have met 
with the addressee while accompanied by his high ranking satraps. The namesake of this document claims 
to be moving to the east and leaving his lands to its addressee, Sylvester I. This document’s veracity was 
attacked by Nicolas of Cusa and Lorenzo Valla. For 10 points, name this forgery in which the first 
Christian Roman emperor allegedly gave land in Italy and other authority to the pope and Catholic Church. 
ANSWER: “ 
Donation of Constantine 
” [or “ 
Donatio Constantini 
”; or “ 
Constitutum Constantini 
”] 
023-09-12-01109 
9. The speaker of this poem asks \"Can storied urn or animated bust / Back to its mansion call the fleeting 
breath?\" and imagines \"Hands, that the rod of empire might have sway'd,\" whose \"noble rage\" was 
repressed by \"chill penury.\" This poem ends with its speaker envisioning a \"hoary-headed swain\" leading a 
\"kindred spirit\" to his epitaph, which describes how the speaker's merits and frailties repose in \"the bosom 
of his Father and his God.\" This poem imagines a \"village-Hampden\" and a \"mute inglorious Milton\" lying 
in the title location after claiming \"Full many a flower is born to blush unseen.\" This poem declares that 
\"the paths of glory lead but to the grave,\" and begins as \"The curfew tolls the knell of parting day.\" For 10 
points, name this poem by Thomas Gray about a rural graveyard. 
ANSWER: \" 
Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard 
\" 
015-09-12-01110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  2 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. In one section of this work, the reason for asking what the value of a Roman penny was is given as an 
example of an \"unguided\" as opposed to \"regulated\" train of thought. Another part of this work discusses 
\"virtues intellectual\" as having a \"natural\" and \"acquired\" type, the former being partially made up of the 
\"celerity of imagining.\" This work claims the change in the mind of an image once it is no longer seen is 
man's \"decaying sense\" in the section \"Of Imagination.\" For 10 points, name this work with sections \"Of 
Man\" and \"Of Commonwealth\" that says life in a state of nature is \"nasty, brutish, and short,\" and which 
was written by Thomas Hobbes. 
ANSWER:  
The  Leviathan  or the Matter, Forme, and Power of a Common Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil 
023-09-12-01111 
11. Just outside of this city one can find the Miramar castle, used by Emperor Maximilian I. The Friulian 
language can be heard among residents of this city. In this city, one can find the Risiera di San Sabba, a 
German concentration camp, along with Richard’s arch, so named because it was once crossed by Richard 
the Lionhearted. This city was the subject of the Treaty of Osimo and was divided by the Morgan Line. 
Those treaties occurred after World War Two, which saw this city made into an international zone, with the 
eastern half eventually going to the former Yugoslavia. For 10 points, name this port that lies on Italy’s 
eastern border with Slovenia. 
ANSWER:  
Trieste 
064-09-12-01112 
12. This character examines his racial prejudices after meeting Oliver Marchand and briefly joins his rival 
Angus Duer at Rouncefield. He opposes the crass materialism of A. DeWitt Tubbs and Rippleton Holabird, 
who pressure him to publish before he is ready. At the end of the novel in which he appears, this character 
leaves his second wife Joyce Lanyon and retreats to Birdie's Nest to work with his friend Terry Wickett. He 
voyages to St. Hubert to combat a plague, although the deaths of Gustaf Sondelius and his wife Leora cause 
him to abandon his experiment. This disciple of Max Gottlieb works at the McGurk Institute, where he 
successfully isolates a bacteriophage. For 10 points, name this bacteriologist, the title character of a 1925 
novel about medicine by Sinclair Lewis. 
ANSWER:  
Martin 
 Arrowsmith [or Martin  
Arrowsmith 
] 
015-09-12-01113 
13. This god failed to burn a boy and his reed after boastfully claiming he could engulf everything. This 
deity's mount had the ability to separate mixtures of milk and water, and he himself was said to have 
developed five heads by gazing at Shatarupa. When enlisted to partake in the yajna fire-sacrifice, this deity 
was too entranced by the music-playing of his wife to notice Bhrigu, who cursed him to never be 
worshiped. This creator of the progenitor prajapatis took a second consort named Gayatri, rode the swan 
Hamsa, and emerged from a lotus in the naval of Vishnu. For 10 points, name this husband of Saraswati, 
the creator god of the Hindu Trimurti. 
ANSWER:  
Brahma 
015-09-12-01114 
14. One type of these constructs named for Paul Spahn makes use of a “crawling peg” to identify and 
prevent abuse of currency markets. That type is an updated version of one of these proposed by James 
Tobin after the collapse of the Bretton Woods system. Henry George advocated eliminating all of these that 
were not based on the value of land. Assessment is important in the “ad valorem” type, and a type of these 
that corrects for negative externalities is named for Arthur Pigou. The “excess burden” of this phenomenon 
can lead to deadweight loss. For 10 points, name these economic constructs which can be regressive or 
progressive and which come in sales and income varieties. 
ANSWER:  
tax 
es [or  
taxation 
] 
015-09-12-01115 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  3 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. This artist wrote \"As I Can\" in Greek across the top of one of his frames. In the background of one 
painting by this artist, a man in a turban stands next to a man bent over a balcony looking down at a river. 
In that painting, an angel holds a crown above the title figure's head while the baby in her lap holds an orb 
with a cross. This painter of  
Madonna of Chancellor Rolin 
 also painted a work in which scenes from the 
Passion are on ten medallions set around a mirror and a cherry tree is visible through a window. For 10 
points, name this painter of  
Man in a Red Turban 
, who also depicted a single lit candle in a chandelier and 
a small dog in his painting of a couple in their bedchamber,  
The Arnolfini Wedding. 
ANSWER: Jan van  
Eyck 
023-09-12-01116 
16. In quantum field theories the difference between the vacuum state energy and the next-highest state 
energy is this quantity's \"gap.\" In nuclear physics, the binding energy is equivalent to the so-called defect in 
this quantity. In the matrix for the seesaw mechanism, both Dirac and Majorana terms for this quantity 
exist; that mechanism imparts this quantity to neutrinos. The continuity equation describes the conservation 
of this quantity in fluids. The Compton wavelength varies between particles as one over this quantity. 
Obtained in the standard model by symmetry breaking of the Higgs field, for 10 points, identify this 
quantity which when multiplied by the gravitational acceleration yields the weight. 
ANSWER: the  
mass 
 [prompt on  ] 
m 
001-09-12-01117 
17. One of this artist's works depicts a streetcar driver watering down his horses in the title Harlem 
location. This artist of  
The Hand of Man 
 and  
The Terminal 
 produced a work which features a gangplank 
separating two levels of people, men on the top level and women on the bottom, as they stand aboard a 
ship. This man operated the gallery 291, which showcased many works of the artistic group that he 
co-founded, the \"Photo-Secessionists.\" This creator of  
The Steerage 
 often photographed the hands of his 
wife, who often painted cattle skulls and flowers. For 10 points, name this photographer who was married 
to Georgia O’Keeffe. 
ANSWER: Alfred  
Stieglitz 
052-09-12-01118 
18. One character in this story describes how the aspiring chiropractor Harvey Hill successfully popped a 
sty on the neck of her daughter Glynese. The protagonist of this story enjoys wearing a yellow sweat shirt 
with a faded cowboy on it, and responds to a remark that \"a smile never hurt anyone\" by declaring 
\"Malebranche was right: we are not our own light!\" At the end of this story, a salesman exclaims \"I been 
believing in nothing ever since I was born!\" after taking a flask of whiskey, condoms, and obscene playing 
cards from a hollow Bible. The climax of this story occurs in the loft of a barn, where the wooden leg of 
Hulga Hopewell is stolen by Manley Pointer. For 10 points, name this Flannery O'Connor short story 
whose ironic three-word title refers to the quality of rural individuals. 
ANSWER: \" 
Good Country People 
\" 
052-09-12-01119 
19. One key component of these structures is recognized by TLR5, and the slender-body and resistive-force 
theories explain their function. In humans this and similar structures use tektin B1. Preparation of these in 
archaea use a prepilin peptidase homologue and are similar to type IV pilus systems. Bacterial ones are 
similar to type III secretion systems. They have C and MS rings and their action comes from MotA and B 
proteins. Consisting of a hook, rod, filament, and motor, and the parts located in and near the cell 
membrane are known as the basal body. They can work by rotating or moving back and forth. For 10 
points, name these structures that allow microbes to move that are also present on sperm. 
ANSWER:  
flagellum 
 [or  
flagella 
] 
001-09-12-01120 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  4 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. This man closed the Black Chamber, of which he said \"gentlemen do not read other gentlemen’s mail.\" 
He lost to John Alden Dix in the 1910 New York gubernatorial election and served as the chair of the U.S. 
delegation to the London Naval Conference in 1930. He succeeded Leonard Wood as Governor-General of 
the Philippines and named a statement that said the United States will not recognize any territorial change 
brought about from aggressive action. For 10 points, name this man who named a U.S. foreign policy 
doctrine issued after the Japanese invasion of Manchuria and served as Franklin Roosevelt’s secretary of 
war during World War Two. 
ANSWER: Henry Lewis  
Stimson 
064-09-12-01121 
21. This man threatened the amir Ibrahim with burning down Kilwa, and he formed alliances with the 
rulers of Cochin and Cannanore to combar the Zamorin of Calicut. This man was honored with the 
founding of the Jeronimos monastery in Belem, and this man ordered the  
 Sao Rafael 
 to be burned near 
Malindi. He erected pillars known as padraos at locations such as the Rio dos Bons Sinais, and King 
Manuel I commissioned Pedro Alvares Cabral's expedition following this man's successes. This man was 
named viceroy in India in 1524. For 10 points, name this Portuguese explorer who opened trade routes 
from Western Europe to the East Indies via the Cape of Good Hope. 
ANSWER: Vasco  
da Gama 
030-09-12-01122 
22. This mathematician proved the product sum identity for a real-number analogue of the Riemann zeta 
function and used its divergence at a value of one to show that there are infinitely many primes. As n goes 
to infinity, the difference between the nth harmonic number and the natural log of n goes to a constant of 
which he is the first namesake and that is symbolized gamma. For a polyhedron, the number of vertices 
minus number of edges plus number of faces is equal to his namesake characteristic, chi [rhymes with 
\"eye\"]. He inaugurated graph theory by solving the Seven Bridges of Königsberg [KER-nigs-bairg] 
problem. For 10 points, name this prolific mathematician who discovered a constant equal to about 2.718, 
the usual symbol for which is his last initial. 
ANSWER: Leonhard Paul  
Euler 
 [OIL-er] 
024-09-12-01123 
23. One character in this poem builds an altar out of \"twelve vast French Romances\" and \"all the trophies 
of his former love\" which he lights on fire with a \"billet-doux.\" In the fourth part of this poem, a \"dusky 
melancholy Spright\" is given a bag of sighs and a vial of sorrows from the Queen of Spleen. The main 
character of this poem triumphantly wins a game of ombre in its third canto, and is guarded by a group of 
spirits called Sylphs led by Ariel. It opens by observing \"what mighty contests rise from trivial things,\" and 
was based on an incident between Lord Petre and Arabella Fermor. For 10 points, name this mock epic 
poem written in heroic couplets in which the Baron snips off a curl of Belinda’s hair, written by Alexander 
Pope. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Rape of the Lock 
\" 
015-09-12-01124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  5 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 1 
Bonuses 
1. One of its namesakes is attached to an involved constant representing substrate concentration at half of V 
max. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this doubly-eponymous model of enzyme kinetics. 
ANSWER:  
Michaelis Menten 
 kinetics 
[10] The interpretation of Michaelis Menten introduced by Briggs and Haldane uses this assumption that 
the concentration of enzyme substrate complex doesn't change. 
ANSWER:  
steady state 
[10] Michaelis-Menten kinetics predicts that the plot of velocity versus concentration for a non-cooperative 
enzyme has this shape. 
ANSWER:  
hyperbolic 
 [accept word variants] 
001-09-12-01201 
2. Shula steals a manuscript from Dr. V. Govinda Lal to convince this novel's title character to finish the 
memoirs of H.G. Wells. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel about a one eyed Holocaust survivor who lectures at Columbia and is disgusted with 
the sexual permissiveness and the perceived moral decay of the 1960s. 
ANSWER:  
Mr. Sammler’s Planet 
[10] This author of  
Herzog 
 wrote  
Mr. Sammler’s Planet 
 and the picaresque novel  
The Adventures of Augie 
March 
. 
ANSWER: Saul  
Bellow 
[10] The title character of this Bellow novel hears a voice crying \"I want, I want,\" causing him to travel to 
Africa, where he befriends the chief Dahfu and becomes an important figure in a Wariri village. 
ANSWER:  
Henderson the Rain King 
015-09-12-01202 
3. One painting by this man features a girl in a yellow dress standing atop a galloping horse as a crowd 
watches. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French artist of  
The Circus 
 and  
Circus Sideshow 
. 
ANSWER: Georges-Pierre  
Seurat 
[10] Seurat also painted this pointillist work that shows a group of people, including a woman holding a 
monkey on a leash, lounging along the Seine River. 
ANSWER:  
A  Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte  - 1884 
 [accept  
Isle 
 for \"island\"; or  
Un  
dimanche après-midi à l'Île de la Grande Jatte  - 1884 
] 
[10] Seurat founded pointillism along with this painter, who painted numerous scenes of the southern 
French city of Saint-Tropez, in addition to the  
Portrait of Felix Feneon 
. 
ANSWER: Paul  
Signac 
064-09-12-01203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  6 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. These cells can be classified as pluripotent or totipotent depending on how many different cell types they 
can turn into. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these unspecialized cells that have the ability to become a diverse range of specialized cells. 
ANSWER:  
stem 
 cells 
[10] This is the process by which a stem cell becomes specialized. Stem cells undergo this process during 
the formation of the blastocyst. 
ANSWER:  
differentiation 
 [accept word forms] 
[10] Stem cells gone wild have the ability to form this kind of tumor, named because it comprises a mix of 
many different tissue types. 
ANSWER:  
teratoma 
064-09-12-01204 
5. Languages that have this grammatical feature have nouns that are \"declined.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this grammatical feature that comes in \"nominative\" and \"dative\" types. 
ANSWER: grammatical  
case 
[10] English lumps this case together with the dative and ablative cases to form the \"objective\" case. It 
indicates that a noun is the direct object of a verb. 
ANSWER:  
accusative 
 [accept  
acc 
] 
[10] In Latin, nouns in this declension are typically masculine, and are typically declined by adding a suffix 
with a \"u\" in it. 
ANSWER:  
fourth 
 declension [prompt on  ] 
u 
026-09-12-01205 
6. This discipline is viewed as a \"theodicy\" in a work that considers its progression in relation to the \"zeist,\" 
or \"spirit.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this discipline, which was said to bypass Africa in a series of lectures given at the University of 
Berlin in the 1820s. 
ANSWER: world  
history 
 [accept  
Lectures on the Philosophy of [World]  History 
; or  
Vorlesungen über die 
Philosophie der Weltge schichte 
] 
[10] This philosopher gave the  
Lectures on the Philosophy of History 
, which prompted Alexandre Kojeve 
to proclaim the \"end of history.\" This thinker also penned  
Phenomenology of Spirit 
. 
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich  
Hegel 
[10] This thinker proclaimed that liberal democracy's triumph over communism would usher in the end of 
history in a 1992 work. 
ANSWER: Yoshihiro Francis  
Fukuyama 
026-09-12-01206 
7. This technique can be used to write a very simple algorithm to compute the factorial function as the 
factorial of n can be defined directly as n times the factorial of n-1. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this programming method in which functions call themselves. 
ANSWER:  
recursion 
 (accept word forms like  
recursive 
) 
[10] Recursion is illustrated by this general tactic, in which an algorithm breaks a problem into smaller 
instances of the same problem, then combines the solutions to the smaller problems into a solution of the 
larger problem. Merge sort is perhaps the archetypal example of this strategy. 
ANSWER:  
divide and conquer 
[10] The Karatsuba and Toom-Cook algorithms are divide-and-conquer algorithms that can perform this 
operation in time that is sub-quadratic with the input size. 
ANSWER:  
multiplication 
 of integers 
059-09-12-01207 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  7 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. The death of Don Gomes in this play leads to a duel between the title character and Don Sanche. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this play in which the Castilian son of Don Diegue is part of a love triangle with Chimene and 
Urraque. 
ANSWER:  
Le  Cid 
[10]  
Le Cid 
 was written by this author of  
Medea 
 as well as a work in which Alcandre and Pridamont look 
for Pridamont's son Clindor,  
The Comic Illusion 
. 
ANSWER: Pierre  
Corneille 
[10] This other French playwright was born Jean-Baptiste Poquelin and wrote the comedies  
Tartuffe 
 and  
The Misanthrope 
. 
ANSWER:  
Molière 
059-09-12-01208 
9. This man tied a string to an ant in order to thread a seashell, causing him to be discovered by Minos. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this craftsman who designed the labyrinth for the Minotaur, as well as wax wings that he and his 
son used to escape Crete. 
ANSWER:  
Daedalus 
[10] Daedalus built a wooden cow that this wife of Minos used to mate with a bull, resulting in the birth of 
the Minotaur. 
ANSWER:  
Pasiphae 
[10] Minos's own strange sexual affliction made him ejaculate scorpions and snakes due to a curse by 
Pasiphae. That curse was lifted by this wife of Cephalus, who received the dog Laelaps in gratitude. 
ANSWER:  
Procris 
004-09-12-01209 
10. This character was born from a rock on the summit of Flower Fruit Mountain, and is able to travel one 
hundred and eight thousand li in a single somersault. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character trapped in a mountain by the Buddha, who helps the monk Xuanzang after being 
tricked into putting on a magic headband that he cannot remove. 
ANSWER:  
Sun Wukong 
 [or the  
Monkey 
 King] 
[10] Sun Wukong helps Xuanzang retrieve Buddhist sutras from India in this Classical Chinese novel. 
ANSWER:  
Journey to the West 
 [or  
Monkey 
; or  
Xi You Ji 
] 
[10] Sun Wukong's many powers include being able to transform these bodily objects into clones, fighting 
monkeys, and pretty much any objects he wants. Guanyin gives him three of these to be used in 
emergencies. 
ANSWER:  
hair 
s 
004-09-12-01210 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  8 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. A song called about this event is called \"The Fields of Athenry.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1840s, event which saw a particular island's population drop by almost twenty-five percent 
due to death and immigration, all due to the failure of a crucial crop. 
ANSWER:  
Irish Potato 
 Famine [accept equivalents if they have  
Ireland 
 and  
Potato 
; prompt on partial 
answers; accept  
Gorta Mor 
] 
[10] This Conservative was the British Prime Minister during the potato famine. He urged the repealing of 
the Corn Laws in an effort to provide more food for the starving Irish. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Peel 
[10] This Irish leader, known as the \"Liberator,\" urged for an independent Irish parliament, which he felt 
would have the authority needed to combat the famine. A staunch opponent of the Act of Union, he died on 
a pilgrimage to Rome in 1847. 
ANSWER: Daniel  
O’Connell 
052-09-12-01211 
12. Name these Canterbury Tales for 10 points each: 
[10] This first tale tells of Arcite and Palamon’s imprisonment and subsequent infatuation with Emily, a 
relation of Duke Theseus of Athens. 
ANSWER: The  
Knight 
’s Tale 
[10] In this tale, the rooster Chanticleer tricks a fox into opening his mouth so he can escape. 
ANSWER: The  
Nun’s Priest 
’s Tale 
[10] This storyteller precedes the Nun’s Priest. He claims to have one hundred stories of the tragic 
downfall of figures like Lucifer, Hercules, and Ugolino, but only gets through seventeen of them before he 
is interrupted by the knight. 
ANSWER: The  
Monk 
’s Tale 
015-09-12-01212 
13. A mass on a spring is typical example of this system. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this system in which the force acting on a body is proportional to minus the displacement from 
equilibrium. 
ANSWER: simple  
harmonic oscillator 
 [or  
SHO 
; accept simple  
harmonic motion 
 or  
SHM 
] 
[10] For a body undergoing simple harmonic motion, this quantity is equal to the square root of the spring 
constant divided by the mass. 
ANSWER: the  
angular frequency 
 [prompt on  
omega 
; prompt on  
frequency 
] 
[10] A pendulum's motion can be described mathematically as simple harmonic motion under this 
assumption, which is required to allow the use of a first-order Taylor series that removes the non-linearity 
from the exact pendulum equation of motion. 
ANSWER: the  
small-angle 
 approximation [accept equivalents like  
sin theta equals theta 
 or anything else 
that explains that the angle/amplitude/displacement is small] 
001-09-12-01213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  9 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. This character climbs a tree and refuses to put on his uniform after being unable to save the life of 
Snowden. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this character who is arrested in Rome instead of Aarfy after Aarfy murders Michaela. Nately's 
whore responds to the death of Nately by attempting to stab this character with a huge knife. 
ANSWER: Captain John  
Yossarian 
 [or Captain  
John 
 Yossarian] 
[10] Yossarian is sane enough not to want to fly any more bombing missions and therefore must continue 
flying them in this anti-war novel by Joseph Heller. 
ANSWER:  
Catch-22 
[10] This horseshoe-loving character in  
Catch-22 
 has an awe-inspiring, terrifying face, which prevents the 
other soldiers on Pianosa from asking him what his first name is. He ends the Great Loyalty Oath Crusade 
by yelling \"Gimme eat!\" 
ANSWER: Major  
de Coverley 
003-09-12-01214 
15. This state contains a memorial tunnel named in honor of engineer Anton Anderson. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this state, which also contains a mountain named to mock William Jennings Bryan, the tallest 
peak in the United States, Mount McKinley. 
ANSWER:  
Alaska 
[10] The most powerful earthquake in North American history hit Alaska in 1964, killing over 100 people. 
It occurred on this holiday, which gives this disaster its colloquial name. 
ANSWER:  
Good Friday 
[10] This village, located on a namesake island, was so devastated by the Good Friday earthquake that 
residents moved to Evans Island to establish a new village of this name. Located in Prince William Sound, 
residents were also devastated by the  
Exxon Valdez 
 disaster in 1989. 
ANSWER:  
Chenega 
052-09-12-01215 
16. In the fourth act of this opera, the title character kills Valentin, who had earlier sung the Soldier's 
Chorus \"Glorie immortelle.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this French opera which premiered in 1859. Its title character impregnates and abandons 
Marguerite after receiving a magic potion that restores his youth. 
ANSWER:  
Faust 
[10] This French composer wrote the operas  
Romeo and Juliet 
 and  
Faust 
. 
ANSWER: Charles  
Gounod 
[10] Gounod composed a short piano piece about one of these \"of a marionette.\" The second movement of 
Beethoven's  
Eroica 
 symphony is one of these somber pieces. 
ANSWER:  
funeral march 
004-09-12-01216 
17. Mark Dugan uncovered a marriage license proving that Bush Smith was this man’s wife, not his 
mistress. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Confederate guerrilla fighter who orchestrated the Centralia Massacre and earned his 
nickname for his habit of taking scalps to quantify killings. 
ANSWER: William “Bloody Bill”  
Anderson 
[10] This outlaw with a brother Frank got his start with Bloody Bill. This notorious bank robber was later 
assassinated by Robert Ford. 
ANSWER: Jesse Woodson  
James 
[10] The James brothers served as part of this man's Raiders during the Civil War. 
ANSWER: William Clarke  
Quantrill 
 [or  
Quantrill 
's Raiders] 
003-09-12-01217 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  10 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. Amanat Khan inscribed the inside of this building with jasper calligraphy. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this structure designed in the interlocking arabesque style. It contains four forty-three foot high 
minarets and a bulbous central dome, which are reflected by the long pool in front of it. 
ANSWER:  
Taj Mahal 
[10] The Taj Mahal was constructed using the white type of this rock, which was used to construct the 
exterior of the U.S. Capitol building. 
ANSWER:  
marble 
[10] The Taj Mahal contains one of these structures divided into four symmetrical parts by four channels 
that symbolize the four rivers of paradise. 
ANSWER: paradise  
garden 
 [or  
charbagh 
] 
004-09-12-01218 
19. Cirques are valleys formed when the alpine variety of these bodies cause erosion when slipping from 
the headwall. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these large masses of moving ice that also come in the continental variety. 
ANSWER:  
glacier 
s 
[10] These are ridges formed by the accumulated deposits of rocky till carried by glaciers. Terminal and 
lateral are two varieties of this landform. 
ANSWER:  
moraine 
s 
[10] Terminal moraines along a U-shaped valley can form these type of lakes, named for their similar 
appearance to a chain of prayer beads. 
ANSWER:  
paternoster 
 lakes 
032-09-12-01219 
20. This crisis began with a scheme by Otto Heinze, Augustus Heinze, and the head of the Knickerbocker 
Trust Company to corner the U.S. copper market. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this crisis that saw the failure of the Knickerbocker Trust Company and the Westinghouse 
Electric Company. 
ANSWER:  
Panic of 1907 
 [or  
Banker's Panic 
] 
[10] The Panic of 1907 was investigated by a commission led by this Senator, who named a 1909 tariff 
with New York Congressman Sereno Payne. 
ANSWER: Nelson Wilmarth  
Aldrich 
[10] The Panic of 1907 may have been exacerbated had it not been for the intervention of this U.S. banking 
giant who had earlier lent 65 million dollars in gold during the Panic of 1893. 
ANSWER: John Pierpont  
Morgan 
064-09-12-01220 
21. In 1944, the Fatherland Front seized control of this country, which was led by the Stalinist Vulko 
Chervenkov from 1950 to 1956. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this country, which became a Communist state after the ratification of the Dimitrov 
Constitution, causing its tsar Simeon II to flee in 1946. It succeeded a medieval state whose soldiers were 
\"slain\" by Byzantine Emperor Basil II. 
ANSWER:  
Bulgaria 
[10] This politician succeeded Chervenkov as the leader of Bulgaria's Communist Party in 1954, and 
replaced Anton Yugov as Prime Minister in 1962. He implemented the APK system of agriculture, and 
ruled Bulgaria until 1989. 
ANSWER: Todor  
Zhivkov 
[10] Zhivkov was a protégé of this Soviet Premier, who gave a \"secret speech\" in 1956 denouncing Stalin. 
ANSWER: Nikita  
Khrushchev 
004-09-12-01221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 1     Page  11 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
