National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 20 
Tossups 
1. One of these figures has a name translating to \"Mother Whose Children are the Fish,\" as her progeny are 
uncountable. Another of these figures once walked through a town wearing a half-red, half-black hat to 
confuse villagers. Devotees of the religion that venerates these figures stand on their toes or rise up at the 
mention of one of them, who presides over the drumming ceremonies during which these figures may 
mount priests. In addition to Yemaya and the one who shares lightning and fire with Oya, Shango, these 
figures that are venerated in Umbanda and Candomble. For 10 points, identify these emissaries of 
Olodumare that are revered in Santeria. 
ANSWER:  
Orisha 
s [or  
Orixa 
s] 
040-09-12-20102 
2. In this novel, Pervading Fragrance performs the play of cloud and rain, and the Bottle-gourd Temple is 
burned down by a careless monk. Much of this novel is set at pleasure grounds known as the Takuanyuan. 
Madame Shih is the matriarch of the central family of this novel, which is ruined by the greed of Phoenix. 
At the beginning of this novel, a flower is reincarnated as Black Jade, who dies of grief after its main 
character is tricked into marrying Precious Virtue. This novel describes the interactions of the twelve 
beuatiful women of Jinling with Pao-yu, who is born with a jade tablet in his mouth. One of the four great 
Chinese classical novels, for 10 points, name this novel by Cao Xuequin about the decline of the Jia family. 
ANSWER:  
Dream of the Red Chamber 
 [or  
The  Story of the Stone 
; or  
Hongloumeng 
] 
030-09-12-20103 
3. One leader of this uprising was arrested after shooting William Horsfall in the groin. Another leader was 
investigated by Oliver the Spy, who stopped its Pentrich Revolution. Like the Swing Riots, this movement 
was inspired by a mythological king or general. Centered on Nottingham, this movement that arose during 
the economic strain of the Napoleonic wars died after its leaders were deported to Australia or executed 
under the Frame Breaking Act. For 10 points, name this movement of British textile workers who probably 
didn’t hate all technology. 
ANSWER:  
Luddite 
s 
020-09-12-20104 
4. A short story by this author is narrated by an algebra teacher whose daughter, Grace, has just died of 
polio. That narrator’s drug addict brother, the title character, comes to stay with him and plays in Creole’s 
jazz band. Another short story by this author ends with Jesse only being able to have sex with his wife 
Grace by remembering seeing a man’s testicles cut off and his body burnt at a lynching. This author of 
“Sonny’s Blues” and “Going to Meet the Man” wrote a novel whose protagonist wrestles with a handsome 
teenager named Elisha. That novel tells of the spiritual encounter of young Harlem resident John, whose 
abusive father is a church deacon named Gabriel. For 10 points, name this African-American author of  
Go 
Tell It on the Mountain 
. 
ANSWER: James  
Baldwin 
052-09-12-20105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  1 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. Leopold Godowsky composed fifty-three studies based on these pieces. In the first and eighth of these 
pieces, the right hand plays extensive arpeggios that require the pianist to engage the shoulder and arm 
muscles, unlike previous works in the same genre that focused on the fingers and wrists. The right hand 
plays brilliant triplets in the fifth of these pieces, which is nicknamed because almost every note is an 
accidental. The second set of these works form the Opus twenty-five of their composer, and include pieces 
nicknamed the \"Wrong Note,\" \"Butterfly,\" and \"Winter Wind.\" These pieces were the first major example 
of their form not to be merely didactic, and include works known as \"Black Key\" and \"Revolutionary.\" For 
10 points, name these studies for the piano written by the composer of the \"Heroic\" Polonaise and the 
Minute Waltz. 
ANSWER: the  
etudes 
 of Frederic  
Chopin 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
004-09-12-20106 
6. This book was published in response to the success of a similar book by John Evelyn. The narrator of 
this book explicitly describes his affair with Deborah Willet, and is married to Elizabeth St. Michel. It was 
written in a system developed by Thomas Shelton, and describes General Harrison \"looking as cheerful as 
any man could look\" after being hanged, drawn, and quartered. This book details its author's time on the 
Navy Board during the Second Anglo-Dutch War, and contains firsthand accounts of the Great Plague and 
Great Fire of London. For 10 points, name this account of the years 1660 to 1669, the primary personal 
journal about daily life during the English Restoration. 
ANSWER: the  
diary 
 of Samuel  
Pepys 
 (PEEPS) 
004-09-12-20107 
7. The Evans balance is used to measure this quantity. In MRI, the BOLD venography technique exploits 
differences in this property among tissues, oxygenated blood, and deoxygenated blood. Often separate 
static and frequency-dependent values of this are reported. In an isotropic material, the permeability is 
equal to the vacuum permeability times the quantity one plus this value. It is negative for diamagnetic 
objects. It can be obtained by dividing the magnetization by the applied magnetic field and is symbolized 
chi. For 10 points, name this measurement of a material's magnetization response to a magnetic field. 
ANSWER: the  
magnetic susceptibility 
 [prompt on  
chi 
; prompt on  
susceptibility 
] 
001-09-12-20108 
8. One battle at this site saw the losing commander court-martial Fitz John Porter for disobedience, after 
which the loser at a battle here was reassigned to fight the Dakota War in Minnesota. A representative from 
New York, Alfred Ely, was a civilian captured at a battle at this site. One battle here saw Bernard Bee coin 
a famous nickname. The retreat after the first battle of this site engulfed a group of Washington, D.C., 
civilians who had been picnicking while watching the battle. For 10 points, name this location in Virginia 
where the first major battle of the Civil War was fought and which the Confederates dubbed First 
Manassas. 
ANSWER:  
Bull Run 
 [or  
Manassas 
 early] 
026-09-12-20109 
9. Sudden changes in these phenomena can result from seiches created by raising or lowering of 
atmospheric pressure. A sudden increase in them can be caused by propagation of a bore. During still 
periods, they are known as slack. Increased speeds are seen in their Perigean variety. Stronger and weaker 
versions of these phenomena are called spring and neap, respectively. One zone created by changes in them 
is called the littoral zone. For 10 points, name these phenomena caused by the Sun's and the Moon's 
gravitational forces on the Earth's oceans: changes in height of a body of water. 
ANSWER:  
tide 
s 
023-09-12-20110 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  2 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This location’s namesake is credited with coining the phrase “Every man is the architect of his own 
fortune” and with inventing the letter Z, as well as having an epithet meaning “blind.” In 1776, Gavin 
Hamilton excavated a building on this site, discovering the “Braschi Venus” sculpture, among others. The 
need for this landmark was demonstrated after the Battle of Caudine Forks during the Second Samnite War, 
which revealed the difficulty a certain republic had in transferring supplies and personnel. The crucifixion 
of Spartacus and his followers occurred at this location. Referred to by Statius as “the queen of the long 
roads,” for 10 points, name this landmark which stretched from Rome to Apulia, the most important 
Roman road. 
ANSWER:  
Appian Way 
 [or  
Via Appia 
; accept  
Aqua Appia 
 until second sentence] 
052-09-12-20111 
11. The roof of this structure has grass growing in the widely spaced joints created by sand covered with 
concrete. The aqua-tiled bath tub in this structure's master bedroom stands in contrast to the utilitarian 
simplicity of its kitchen. This structure's window-lined facade is separated from its load-bearing columns, 
called pilotes. This structure's sun room overlooks a ramp that provides ventilation. Its reinforced-concrete 
construction enables its \"free plan,\" which was crucial to its designer's concept of a \"Machine for Living.\" 
It exemplifies the \"Five Points\" of its designer, who placed this structure in Poissy, France. For 10 points, 
name this International Style residence, designed by Le Corbusier. 
ANSWER: the  
Villa Savoye 
020-09-12-20112 
12. One argument in this work contends that Western philosophy is a sort of “metaphysics of presence.” 
Later, this work notes that the sound of “bat” is different from the sound of “cat,” after a discussion of the 
“transcendental signified” in the work of Saussure. Translated into English by Gayatri Spivak, this work 
notes that in binary opposites like day and night, the first is always the better, and applies that to the binary 
of speech and writing. Introducing the notion of  
différance 
, for 10 points, name this magnum opus of 
Jacques Derrida. 
ANSWER:  
Of Grammatology 
 [or  
De la Grammatologie 
] 
020-09-12-20113 
13. The speaker of this poem warns that \"The lights must never go out, the music must always play,\" else 
we risk revealing that we are \"Children afraid of the night.\" In its second stanza, the speaker claims that 
like the schoolchildren, he knows the source of the “psychopathic god,” because “those to whom evil is 
done do evil in return.” This poem’s eighth stanza, which was restored posthumously after being removed 
by its author, states “All I have is a voice” and concludes “We must love one another or die.” In its 
opening lines, “the clever hopes expire of a low and dishonest decade” as the speaker sits “in one of the 
dives on Fifty-second Street.” For 10 points, name this W. H. Auden poem named for the date of the 
German invasion of Poland. 
ANSWER: “ 
September 1, 1939 
” 
015-09-12-20114 
14. The world’s largest factory for barrel cheese is located in this state, in the city of Gooding. The highest 
peak in this state contains a portion named the “Chickenout Ridge” and is located in the Lost River Range. 
One story about this state’s name says that it was coined by a lobbyist named George Willing, who claimed 
it to be a Shoshone word. This state saw the first ever chairlift at a ski resort, installed at the Sun Valley 
resort. That resort is near a city where Ernest Hemingway shot himself, Ketchum. This state is home to 
Borah Peak and its capital may have been named by a Frenchman’s exuberant exclamation “The woods! 
The woods!” For 10 points, name this “Gem State” with capital at Boise. 
ANSWER:  
Idaho 
052-09-12-20115 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  3 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. A.C. Pigou attacked this book's lack of distinction between \"directing particular people\" and 
\"determining numbers of people.\" This work argues that propaganda tries to destroy morals because they 
are the basis of truth in its chapter \"The End of Truth.\" One of its chapters distinguishes between the 
limited and absolute kinds of security, and this book's chapter \"Who, Whom\" attacks vague definitions of 
\"fairness.\" Its chapter \"The Great Utopia\" analyzes socialism in France as part of its thesis that fascism 
developed at least partially from socialism. For 10 points, name this work which argues that central 
planning inevitably leads to loss of freedom, a work of Friedrich Hayek. 
ANSWER:  
The Road to Serfdom 
040-09-12-20116 
16. The sum of a perturbation and the Hartree-Fock operators to equal the Hamiltonian of one type of these 
entities is the result of Moller-Plesset theory, and the coupled cluster method can also be used to calculate 
that type. The Jahn-Teller effect prevents degeneracy in these, and the LCAO approximation simplifies 
calculations involving them. Overlap of two lobes of these creates pi bonds, and higher-energy molecular 
ones are considered \"antibonding.\" For 10 points, name these wavefunction solutions with atomic s, p, d, 
and f types. 
ANSWER:  
orbital 
s [accept  
molecular orbital 
s before \"one type of these\"] 
032-09-12-20117 
17. The aconite plant was formed after this figure's saliva hit rocky ground. In the  
Aeneid 
, the Cumaean 
Sybil threw this creature a cake laced with drugs, enabling Aeneas to visit Anchises. Auxiliary features of 
this creature included a snake's tail and a mane of serpents. King Eurystheus cowered inside a jar upon 
seeing this brother of Orthrus, who could not pierce the skin of the Nemean Lion, enabling the hero 
wearing that skin to subdue it with his bare hands. The twelfth labor of Heracles was to capture this 
creature alive. For 10 points, name this guardian of the underworld in Greek and Roman mythology, a dog 
usually depicted with three heads. 
ANSWER:  
Cerberus 
004-09-12-20118 
18. Proteins targeted to this structure have a serine-lysine-leucine sequence on their C-terminus, and they 
are absent in rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata. One disease caused by problems in this structure 
occurs after an accumulation of phytanic acid in myelin sheaths. Another biogenesis disorder caused by 
problems with this structure comes from defects in the gene PEX5 and results in the build up of 
very-long-chain fatty acids. Those disorders are Refsum’s disease and Zellweger syndrome. For 10 points, 
name this organelle that uses catalase to convert hydrogen peroxide into water. 
ANSWER:  
peroxisome 
s 
023-09-12-20119 
19. At one time, this group was thought to have been bankrolled by MGM Studios. One part of this group 
was known as the \"Khaki Shirts.\" Charles Coughlin donated five thousand dollars to this group with the 
stipulation that it \"keep clear of all communist leaders.\" Pelham Glassford twice reinstated Walter Waters 
as the leader of this group, which Gladwin Bland described as \"an immense hobo jungle.\" This group was 
evicted from tents in Anacostia Flats by forces under Douglas MacArthur. For 10 points, name this group 
that marched on Washington in 1931 demanding immediate payment of insurance certificates issued for 
their service in World War I. 
ANSWER:  
Bonus Army 
 [or  
Bonus Expeditionary Force 
] 
003-09-12-20120 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  4 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. The artist of this painting relied on a chronicle by Hartmann Schedel, causing this painting to portray 
the island of Cyprus next to the Nile delta. This painting's sky symbolically includes both a crescent moon 
in the upper left corner and a rising sun in the right background. One of its figures retreats on a chariot 
pulled by three horses, and is pursued by the main figure on horseback carrying a long lance. The top half 
of this painting depicts a swirling sky, while the bottom half depicts a huge crowd of soldiers holding 
spears. This painting identifies the title event with a description in Latin on an enormous banner in the sky. 
For 10 points, name this massive painting that portrays a victory for Alexander the Great over Darius III, 
created by Albrecht Altdorfer. 
ANSWER:  
The  Battle of Issus 
 [or  
The  Battle of Alexander  at Issus 
; or  
The  Battle at Issus 
] 
022-09-12-20121 
21. This pope issued a bull that forbade Latin clergy to ordain Greek clergy or pray with Greek clergy and 
in Greek churches. He reopened the Fifth Lateran Council in order to complete the Pisan schism, and he 
formed alliances with both Francis I and Ferdinand II. He summoned a certain Protestant theologian to 
appear before the papal court, and he radically increased the sale of indulgences to raise funds for a new St. 
Peter's Basilica. For 10 points, name this pope who objected to Martin Luther posting his 95 Theses. 
ANSWER: Pope  
Leo X 
   [or  
Giovanni 
 di Lorenzo di  
Medici 
] 
032-09-12-20122 
22. One work by this author is narrated by Fulvius, who describes its title figures' quest to build the City of 
the Sun under the command of Spartacus. Another work by this author ends with Peter parachuting into his 
home country after leaving Neutralia. In addition to  
The Gladiators 
 and  
Arrival and Departure 
, this author 
wrote a work includes prisoners nicknamed Hare-Lip and Rip van Winkle and a party boss known only as 
Number 1. The protagonist of that novel recalls his betrayal of his secretary Arlova during his interrogation 
by Gletkin. For 10 points, name this author who described Rubashov, a former Russian revolutionary 
betrayed by the Soviet Union, in  
Darkness at Noon 
. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Koestler 
059-09-12-20123 
23. Uniquely, this associative multilinear operation commutes with similarity transforms and with both 
parts of Hermitian conjugation. A set of homogeneous, linear alegbraic equations can have a non-trivial 
solution only if the one of these corresponding to the coefficients is zero. Ratios of these give the solutions 
to inhomogeneous linear alegbraic equations through Cramer's rule. If this object is zero, its associated 
array is singular. This operation maps the square matrices over a set of numbers onto that set, returning an 
alternating sum of products of the matrix entries. For 10 points, name this operation given for a square 
matrix a, b, c, d as ad minus bc. 
ANSWER: the  
determinant 
065-09-12-20124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  5 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 20 
Bonuses 
1. It asserts that anxiety caused by predestination led people to work incredibly hard in order to be assured 
that they were saved. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this book that argues that the modern economic system has captured society \"in a shell as hard 
as steel\" thanks to the namesake Calvinist beliefs. 
ANSWER:  
The  Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism 
[10] This author of  
The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism 
 analyzed bureaucracy in  
Economy and 
Society 
. 
ANSWER: Max  
Weber 
[10] Weber pessimistically believed that society was becoming increasingly dominated by the \"purposive\" 
type of this tendency, which leads life to become more be predictable and calculable. However, many 
social scientists now believe that this process is \"bounded\" due to limits on information and time. 
ANSWER:  
rationality 
 [or  
rationalization 
] 
032-09-12-20201 
2. The government established by this man was toppled during the 1974 Carnation Revolution. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this man, who established a secret police force known as the PIDE during his rule as dictator 
from 1932 to 1968. 
ANSWER: Antonio de Oliveira  
Salazar 
[10] Salazar was a dictator of this European nation. The Estado Novo government in this country was used 
a model for a government of the same name in Brazil. 
ANSWER:  
Portugal 
[10] During Salazar’s rule, India launched Operation Vijay in 1961 to recapture this small Portuguese 
territory. 
ANSWER:  
Goa 
064-09-12-20202 
3. This chapter ends by considering that light striking matter without a medium would cause the world to 
appear like a monumental blank shroud. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this chapter which discusses the terror produced by polar bears, milky fog, and albinos to 
explain why the title color appalls mankind. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Whiteness of the Whale 
\" 
[10] \"The Whiteness of the Whale\" is the forty-second chapter of this novel narrated by Ishmael. 
ANSWER:  
Moby-Dick : Or, the Whale 
[10] Melville also critiqued the problems of whiteness in this novella, in which Captain Delano's belief that 
black people are inferior to whites causes him to be deceived by a masquerade orchestrated by Babo. 
ANSWER:  
Benito Cereno 
004-09-12-20203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  6 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. The Morse equation approximates this quantity, setting it equal to the van’t Hoff factor times the 
molarity times the universal gas constant times the temperature. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this pressure needed to prevent flow across a semi-permeable membrane. 
ANSWER:  
osmotic 
 pressure 
[10] Osmotic pressure is one of these properties that depend on the number of particles in solution. They 
include boiling point elevation. 
ANSWER:  
colligative 
 properties 
[10] This deviation from osmotic pressure occurs when charged particles fail to distribute evenly across 
two sides of a membrane. 
ANSWER: Gibbs- 
Donnan 
 effect 
064-09-12-20204 
5. For 10 points each, name these metaphysical poets. 
[10] This onetime assistant to Milton warned a woman about \"Time's winged chariot hurrying near\" in his 
carpe diem poem \"To his Coy Mistress.\" 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Marvell 
[10] This poet asked God to “take the gentle path” in “Discipline,” but is better remembered for “shape 
poems” like “Easter Wings” and “The Altar,” which are found in his collection  
The Temple 
. 
ANSWER: George  
Herbert 
[10] Samuel Johnson coined the term \"metaphysical poets\" in an essay about the life of this poet. In his 
lifetime, this poet was extremely popular because of his collection  
The Mistress 
, although he is more 
famous today for his elegy \"On the Death of Mr. William Hervey\" and being the secretary to Queen 
Henrietta Maria. 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Cowley 
015-09-12-20205 
6. The WMAP project used the cosmic microwave background power spectrum to estimate this value to a 
precision of 1%. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this value, found by WMAP to be 13.73 billion years. 
ANSWER:  
age 
 of the  
universe 
 [accept equivalents] 
[10] The age of the universe can be calculated a priori using the Friedmann equation, as long as one knows 
the values of the density parameters and of this constant. 
ANSWER:  
Hubble 
's constant 
[10] The Friedmann equation applies if one assumes the cosmological principle, which states that the 
universe has the property of homogeneity and this property. Objects with this property look the same in all 
directions. 
ANSWER:  
isotropy 
 [accept word forms like  
isotropic 
; do not accept or prompt on \"anisotropy\" or 
\"anisotropic\"] 
024-09-12-20206 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  7 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7. Laurence Keitt brandished a pistol to prevent onlookers from stopping this event. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this assault with a gutta-percha weapon that occurred on May 22, 1856. It was depicted in J. L. 
Magee's political cartoon \"Southern Chivalry-Argument versus Clubs.\" 
ANSWER: the  
caning 
 of Senator Charles  
Sumner 
[10] Charles Sumner was assaulted by Preston Brooks, a Congressman from this Southern state, which was 
the first to secede from the Union. The Civil War began after shots were fired on this state's Fort Sumter. 
ANSWER:  
South Carolina 
[10] South Carolina's Ordinance of Secession was written by Robert Rhett, a leader of this group of 
Southern pro-slavery extremists. Other leaders of this group included William L. Yancey and Edmund 
Ruffin. 
ANSWER:  
Fire-Eater 
s 
004-09-12-20207 
8. Answer the following about indices of refraction, for 10 points each. 
[10] This law relates the sines of the angles of incidence and refraction to the indices of refraction for a 
wave passing through two media. 
ANSWER:  
Snell 
ius's law (accept  
Descartes 
' law) 
[10] For two media, the tangent of this angle is given by the ratio of their indices of refraction. When 
incoherent light is incident on a new medium at this angle, the fields of the reflected and refracted rays will 
oscillate in perpendicular directions. 
ANSWER:  
Brewster 
's angle 
[10] These equations give the fraction of light energy reflected and transmitted when light moves into a 
new medium as a function of the indices of refraction and angle of incidence. 
ANSWER: the  
Fresnel 
 [fruh-NELL] equations 
023-09-12-20208 
9. This man is last seen drunkenly sleeping with his daughters in a cave. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this figure from the Bible, whose wife is used as an example by Jesus of someone not fully 
turning their back on sin. 
ANSWER:  
Lot 
[10] Lot’s wife was turned into a pillar of salt when they were fleeing this “city on the plain” destroyed by 
God for its many sins. Lot lived in this city and tried to protect angels visiting it from homosexual 
offenders. 
ANSWER:  
Sodom 
[10] This city, which means “small” or “insignificant” in Hebrew, was where Lot fled to after the 
destruction of Sodom. Another city on the plain, it was saved by God to serve as a shelter for Lot. 
ANSWER:  
Zoar 
 [or  
Zoara 
] 
052-09-12-20209 
10. This painting was originally titled  
Prayer for the Potato Crop 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting which depicts a farmer and his wife saying a prayer. A pitchfork is sticking out of 
the ground on the left, and a wheelbarrow stands behind the farmer's wife. 
ANSWER:  
The  Angelus 
 [or  
L' Angelus 
] 
[10]  
The Angelus 
 was painted by this French realist painter of  
The Sower 
 and  
The Gleaners 
. 
ANSWER: Jean-François  
Millet 
[10] Millet was a founding member of this school of French painters, whose other members included 
Jean-Baptise Corot [co-ROW] and Théodore Rousseau. 
ANSWER:  
Barbizon 
 school 
024-09-12-20210 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  8 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. Identify these puzzling things from science, for 10 points each. 
[10] The ultraviolet catastrophe demonstrates the limitations of this law, which states that radiation from a 
black body is inversely proportional to the negative fourth power of the wavelength. 
ANSWER:  
Rayleigh-Jeans 
 law 
[10] Maxwell’s Demon is a hypothetical device supposedly capable of breaking this law, which states that 
heat does not spontaneously flow from a colder object to a hotter object. 
ANSWER:  
Second Law of Thermodynamics 
[10] Levinthal’s paradox, the idea that a protein has essentially an infinite number of ways to fold, appears 
to be avoided by these proteins which help other proteins fold properly. 
ANSWER:  
chaperone 
 proteins 
064-09-12-20211 
12. This king's former tutor Johannes Vitéz led an unsuccessful revolt against him in 1471. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this son of Janos Hunyadi, who conquered Vienna in 1485 during his war against Holy Roman 
Emperor Frederick III. He also conquered Styria, Corinthia, and Carniola during his rule, which lasted from 
1458 to 1490. 
ANSWER:  
Matthias Corvinus 
 [or  
Matthias I 
 Hunyadi; prompt on  
Matthias 
] 
[10] Matthias Corvinus was the first native king of this country since its Árpád dynasty. This country's first 
king, Stephen, converted it to Christianity. 
ANSWER:  
Hungary 
 [or  
Magyarorszag 
] 
[10] In 1455, Matthias's father Janos Hunyadi defeated the forces of this empire at Belgrade, halting the 
expansion of Mehmet II. It had taken Constantinople from the Byzantines in 1453. 
ANSWER:  
Ottoman 
 Empire 
004-09-12-20212 
13. Aime Millet sculpted  
Apollo, Poetry, and Music 
 for the roof of this building. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this building designed by Charles Garnier, the facade of which includes Jean-Baptiste 
Carpeaux's sculpture  
The Dance 
. It was built above an underground lake, and opened with a performance 
of Halévy's  
The Jewess 
. 
ANSWER:  
Paris Opera 
 House [or  
Palais Garnier 
; or  
Opera de Paris 
; prompt on  
Opera Garnier 
] 
[10] This city's opera house is covered by a roof of shells tiled with white granite that resemble sails, and 
was designed by Jorn Utzon. 
ANSWER:  
Sydney 
, Australia 
[10] This architect won the contest to design the Cardiff Bay Opera House, although local opposition 
prevented it from being built. This first female Pritzker-winner also designed the Dubai and Guangzhou 
opera houses and the Rosenthal Center for Contemporary Art in Cincinnati. 
ANSWER: Zaha  
Hadid 
004-09-12-20213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  9 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. Answer the following about the Civil Rights Movement, for 10 points each. 
[10] Students in this city began three months of sit-ins twelve days after the Greensboro sit-ins started. The 
mayor of this city, Ben West, eventually gave into the demands and desegregated lunch counters. 
ANSWER:  
Nashville 
[10] “Bull” Connor turned fire hoses on black protestors in this city. Martin Luther King Jr. was jailed in 
this city, which allowed him to write a letter stating “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” 
ANSWER:  
Birmingham 
[10] These activists led by Bayard Rustin and organized by the CORE and SNCC rode on interstate buses 
to test the decision made the Supreme Court in  
Boynton v Virginia 
. 
ANSWER:  
Freedom Riders 
 [or  
Freedom Rides 
] 
020-09-12-20214 
15. The number eighteen recurs throughout this epic, as it is the number of books in the poem, the number 
of chapters in its \"Bhagavad-Gita\" section, and the number of days that the battle between the Pandavas and 
Kauravas lasts. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Indian epic. 
ANSWER: the  
Mahabharata 
[10] About six hundred years after the Mahabharata was written down, this Indian author wrote the Sanskrit 
poem \"The Cloud Messenger\" and the play  
Sakuntala. 
ANSWER:  
Kalidasa 
[10] Indian literature continues into the present day with this author of  
Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard, 
who wrote the lauded 2006 novel  
The Inheritance of Loss. 
ANSWER:  iran  
K Desai 
 [prompt on  
Desai 
] 
019-09-12-20215 
16. Otosclerosis results from the hardening of these objects in the middle ear. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give the collective name for the three smallest bones in the human body. 
ANSWER: auditory  
ossicle 
s [prompt on  
middle ear bones 
] 
[10] This smallest bone in the body is attached to the oval window, through which its vibrations are 
transmitted to the cochlea. It is sometimes called the stirrup. 
ANSWER:  
stapes 
[10] The incus and malleus derive from the first of these ridges, while the stapes derives from the second. 
In fish, the interior grooves become gills. 
ANSWER:  
pharyngeal arch 
es [or  
branchial arch 
es] 
001-09-12-20216 
17. The central figure of this episode fought several men at fords and had his chariot driven by Láeg. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Identify this story which told of a war between Ulster and Connacht sparked by Medb and Ailill's 
attempts to steal a certain livestock. 
ANSWER:  
Cattle Raid of Cooley 
 [or The  
Táin 
 Bó Cúailnge] 
[10]Medb and Ailill were opposed by this Irish hero, originally named Setanta, the husband of Emer and 
slayer of a hound with a similar name. 
ANSWER:  
Cú Chulainn 
[10] The Táin featured this figure, who changed into an eel, a wolf, and a heifer in her dogged attempts to 
win Cú Chulainn's love before granting him three drinks of milk in the form of an old woman. 
ANSWER: The  
Morrígan 
 [or  
Morrígu 
; or  
Mor-Ríoghain 
] 
020-09-12-20217 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  10 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
18. Astrakhan lies in its delta, while Glenn Miller and Manuel de Falla helped popularize a song about its 
boatmen. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this river which includes Moscow as part of its drainage basin, the largest river in Europe. 
ANSWER:  
Volga 
 River 
[10] The Volga empties into this salty lake famous for its sturgeon population which also borders Iran to 
the south. 
ANSWER:  
Caspian 
 Sea 
[10] Another river which empties into the Caspian Sea is this one formerly known as the Vaik which flows 
through Kazakhstan to Magnitogorsk at the southern end of a namesake mountain range which 
encompasses Perm and Yekaterinburg. 
ANSWER:  
Ural 
 River 
059-09-12-20218 
19. The hero of this ballet, Prince Siegfried, has a friend named Benno von Sommerstern and a tutor named 
Wolfgang. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this ballet in which Siegfried dies with Odette to end a curse. 
ANSWER:  
Swan Lake 
 [or  
Lebedinoye Ozero 
] 
[10] This Russian composer of  
The Nutcracker 
 and  
The 1812 Overture 
 composed  
Swan Lake 
. 
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich  
Tchaikovsky 
[10] This evil sorcerer creates the curse at the center of  
Swan Lake 
 and has a daughter named Odile who 
looks exactly like Odette. 
ANSWER: Von  
Rothbart 
015-09-12-20219 
20. He compiled a group of his writings in the collection  
Florida 
 and wrote a comic  
Apologia 
 when he was 
accused in court of using magic to woo a rich widow. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this second century Roman author. 
ANSWER:  
Apuleius 
[10] Apuleius may be best known for writing this novel, which is sometimes known as his  
Metamorphoses 
. 
In it, Lucius is transformed into the title animal and has some adventures. 
ANSWER:  
The  Golden Ass 
[10] This other Roman also wrote a  
Metamorphoses 
. He wrote the  
Fasti 
 and was exiled to the Black Sea. 
ANSWER:  
Ovid 
015-09-12-20220 
21. This man wrote a play where Nina Leeds aborts her child to prevent her husband Sam Evans from 
succumbing to heredity insanity. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this American playwright of  
Strange Interlude 
, who fictionalized himself as Edmund in his 
autobiographical play about the Tyrone family,  
Long Day's Journey Into Night 
. 
ANSWER: Eugene  
O’Neill 
[10] In O'Neill's play  
The Iceman Cometh 
, this salesman arrives at Harry Hope's bar and attempts to 
convince other characters to give up their pipe dreams. In its final act, he reveals that he killed his wife 
Evelyn out of hatred. 
ANSWER:  
Hickey 
 [or Theodore  
Hickman 
; or  
Theodore 
 Hickman] 
[10] This O’Neill play uses the rival architects Billy and Dion to represent the Apollonian and Dionysian 
modes of life. Characters in this play wear masks to display elements of their personalities. 
ANSWER:  
The  Great God Brown 
052-09-12-20221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 20     Page  11 of 11 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
