National History Bowl 11 
Round 15 
First Quarter 
1. This artist depicted a black pistil against a black and purple background in the last of a series of six 
paintings of a Jack-in-the-Pulpit. A background of red, white, and blue occurs in one of this painter's 
depictions of a cow's skull. For 10 points, name this American painter who worked from her Ghost Ranch 
in Abiquiu, New Mexico to produce some provocative pictures of flowers. 
ANSWER: Georgia  
O'Keeffe 
023-11-31-15101 
2. This company was led by Robert Todd Lincoln for almost thirty years. It pioneered the “company town” 
model by forcing its employees to live in its constructed Chicago suburb. A union primarily associated with 
this company was led by A. Philip Randolph. Grover Cleveland sent Nelson Miles to bust a strike 
instigated by Eugene Debs at this company. For 10 points, name this company famous for its sleeping cars. 
ANSWER:  
Pullman 
 Palace Car Company 
015-11-31-15102 
3. This man changed his name from Herbert Frahm to avoid being arrested by the Nazis. He succeeded 
Erich Ollenhauer as the head of the SPD, and he signed a treaty that recognized the Oder-Niesse Line as the 
Polish-West German border. This man's top aide Gunter Guillaume was a Stasi agent. For 10 points, name 
this chancellor of West Germany who won the 1971 Nobel Peace Prize for his Ostpolitik policy. 
ANSWER: Willy  
Brandt 
 [accept Herbert Ernst Karl  
Frahm 
 until mentioned] 
030-11-31-15103 
4. This President began the modern tradition of giving the state of the union address in front of Congress, 
rather than sending it as a letter. He signed the Underwood Tariff, which lowered tariff rates, as well as the 
Clayton Anti-Trust Act, a modification of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. Henry Cabot Lodge prevented this 
man from accomplishing his last goal. For 10 points, name this U.S. President during World War I. 
ANSWER: Woodrow  
Wilson 
021-11-31-15104 
5. The winning side in this war followed up one victory by an unsuccessful campaign along the Pruth River 
after one leader was forced to hide in the Ottoman Empire. That leader died during a siege of Frederikshald 
three years before this war was ended by the Treaty of Nystadt. For 10 points, name this war that included 
battles such as Narva and Poltava, which was fought between Charles XII and Peter the Great. 
ANSWER:  
Great Northern 
 War [or  
Second Northern 
 War] 
023-11-31-15105 
6. One final of this event was played in 'Fritz Walter-weather' and saw Helmut Rahn score the winning goal 
in the Miracle of Bern. In 2010, Robert Green mishandling a shot allowed the U.S. to eventually win its 
group, and Andrés Iniesta scored a goal in extra time in the final to beat the Netherlands. For 10 points, 
name this event won in 2010 by Spain that is played every four years to determine the world's best soccer 
team. 
ANSWER: FIFA  
World Cup 
023-11-31-15106 
7. This monarch overcame a group of pirates known as the Victual Brothers in a successful attempt to 
conquer Stockholm. She arranged the marriage between Henry IV of England's daughter Philippa and her 
adopted son and successor, Eric of Pomerania. Earlier, she had established the Kalmar Union which united 
much of Scandinavia. For 10 points, name this late fourteenth century queen of Denmark. 
ANSWER:  
Margaret 
 I of Denmark 
040-11-31-15107 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  1 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. John F. Kennedy appointed McGeorge Bundy to this office. Carter appointed the Zbigniew Brzezinski to 
this post. Richard Nixon and George W. Bush both eventually appointed the holder of this office as 
Secretary of State; those holders of this office were Condoleezza Rice and Henry Kissinger. For 10 points, 
name this White House advisor who helps President on military and intelligence issues. 
ANSWER:  
National Security Advisor 
 [or  
NSA 
] 
021-11-31-15108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  2 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 15 
Second Quarter 
1.  
Among the complexes surrounding this building were a group of houses and shops known as 
Mulberry Row. This building contained a clock that possessed only an hour hand since its designer 
alleged that outdoor workers didn't need more specific information about the time. Its entrance hall 
featured a green carpet and recreations of artifacts gathered by the (*) 
 Lewis and Clark expedition, 
while its octagonal dome was one of the ways that it showcased the principles of Andrea Palladio. For 10 
points, name this Virginia residence of Thomas Jefferson. 
ANSWER:  
Monticello 
BONUS: Other than the nickel, on what piece of American currency was Monticello featured for a number 
of decades during the twentieth century? 
ANSWER:  
$2 Bill 
040-11-31-15101 
2.  
The victors in this conflict divided their territorial gains via the Treaty of Partition. That side 
called a meeting at Soissons to appoint as its leader Boniface of Montferrat, and many of its troops 
were recruited by Fulk of Neuilly. This conflict began with the recapture of Zara, during which one 
side was asked to depose Alexius III. After this conflict, Baldwin of Flanders founded the (*) 
 Latin 
Empire. It began when less than one-third of the promised thirty-three thousand troops showed up, 
prompting diversions to repay Venice. For 10 points, name this crusade that never quite reached the Holy 
Land, instead sacking Constantinople. 
ANSWER:  
Fourth 
 Crusade 
BONUS: This 1209 crusade was launched in order to end the heretical French Cathars. 
ANSWER:  
Albigensian 
 Crusade 
003-11-31-15102 
3.  
The Wisconsin State Supreme Court declared this act unconstitutional in  In Re Booth and Rycroft , 
causing the U.S. Supreme Court to rule that state courts could not overrule federal courts in  
Abelman v. Booth . This law was partially a response to Joseph Story's opinion in  Prigg v. 
Pennsylvania , which declared that state magistrates could not be forced to enforce federal laws. 
William Seward railed against this act by declaring that there was a \"higher law\" than the 
Constitution, while Daniel Webster's (*) 
 \"Seventh of March\" speech claimed that \"the North is wrong\" 
for opposing it. For 10 points, name this bill passed as part of the Compromise of 1850, which denied a trial 
by jury if a slaveowner accused a Northerner of being one of this act's namesake people. 
ANSWER:  
Fugitive Slave 
 Act of  
1850 
 [or  
Second Fugitive Slave 
 Act; accept  
Fugitive Slave 
 Act by itself 
after \"1850\" but prompt on it beforehand; prompt on  
Compromise of 1850 
 before mentioned] 
BONUS: Also as a part of the Compromise of 1850, name either of the two territories that were granted 
popular sovereignty to decide the issue of slavery. 
ANSWER:  
Utah 
 OR  
New Mexico 
 (need just one) Territories 
003-11-31-15103 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  3 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4.  
After this leader bombed the La Belle disco in Berlin, a common hangout for US soldiers, he was 
targeted by Operation El Dorado Canyon. He attempted to merge his country with Syria and Egypt 
in the failed Federation of Arab Republics. He described his country as a “state of the masses,” or  
Jamahiriya  (jah-muh-HEER-ee-uh), after overthrowing King Idris (EE-driss) in 1969. This author of 
The Green Book  endured economic sanctions before allowing two of his subjects to stand trial for the 
(*) 
 Pan-Am Flight 103 bombings. In March 2011, protests against his regime led the UN to enforce a 
no-fly zone over his country. For 10 points, name this colonel who rules Libya. 
ANSWER: Muammar Muhammad al- 
Gaddafi 
BONUS: Gaddafi’s 42 years in office rank third behind this North Korean “Eternal President” who led his 
country for over 45 years. 
ANSWER:  
Kim Il-Sung 
079-11-31-15104 
5.  
After being expelled from Massachusetts, the pantheist Abner Kneeland set up the community of 
Salubria in this state. After World War I, this state’s governor William Harding issued the “Babel 
Proclamation,” mandating English for public gatherings. George McGovern’s campaign manager 
Gary Hart pioneered a strategy focusing on this state’s (*) 
 caucus. A Supreme Court case originating in 
this state had a majority opinion written by Abe Fortas which determined that a school was not allowed to 
punish a student for wearing a black armband in protest. For 10 points, name this state that  
Tinker v. Des 
Moines 
 originated from. 
ANSWER:  
Iowa 
BONUS: Much like Iowa and its caucus, this state draws attention every four years for hosting the first 
primary election in the presidential election season. 
ANSWER:  
New Hampshire 
015-11-31-15105 
6.  
This city’s Detsky or Children’s Island sits across a bridge from Frank Gehry’s Dancing House. 
Monarchs who lived in this city would traditionally pass through its “Powder Tower,” into its Old 
Town, and to St. Vitus’s Cathedral for coronations. This city is situated on the (*) 
 Vltava River. This 
city’s namesake castle is the largest in the world, and was the site of a 1618 event in which Count Thurn 
threw two men out of a window. For 10 points, name this capital of the historical Bohemian Kingdom and 
current capital of the Czech Republic. 
ANSWER:  
Prague 
BONUS: A November, 1989 protest in Prague led to a revolution over the communist government named 
for what fabric? 
ANSWER:  
Velvet 
 Revolution 
015-11-31-15106 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  4 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7.  
John T. Flynn wrote a derided revisionist work on \"the truth about\" this event and many 
conspiracy theories regarding it involve the McCollum memo. In the lead up to it, the Number 1 
Alert against sabotage was issued. A Congressional act in 2000 absolved Walter Short and Husband 
Kimmel for their role in it. This incident was investigated by the first Roberts Commission. It caused 
the America First Committee to (*) 
 disband. It saw an attack on Wheeler Airfield and the sinking of the  
Arizona 
. The attacking force was commanded by Isoroku Yamamoto. For 10 points, name this December 
7th, 1941 military action that lead to America entering WWII. 
ANSWER:  
Bombing of Pearl Harbor 
 [accept anything indicating  
Pearl Harbor 
 was attacked] 
BONUS: Pearl Harbor is located on what Hawaiian island? 
ANSWER:  
O'ahu 
001-11-31-15107 
8.  
This transfer of this region led to the resignation of Edvard Benes, who was subsequently 
succeeded by Emil Hacha. That transfer occurred at a meeting attended by Prime Minister Edouard 
Daladier. Konrad Henlein led a separatist movement in this region which is named for a mountain 
range found predominantly in Silesia, Moravia, and Bohemia. Several months after the (*) 
 Anschluss, 
this region was transferred by the terms of the Munich Agreement, which prompted Neville Chamberlain to 
declare “peace for our time”. For 10 points, name this region of northwest Czechoslovakia that was 
annexed by the Nazis in 1938. 
ANSWER:  
Sudetenland 
BONUS: What Nazi leader served as Chief of the German Police and later as the Minister of the Interior as 
well as head of the Gestapo? 
ANSWER: Heinrich  
Himmler 
064-11-31-15108 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  5 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 15 
Third Quarter 
EARLY ROMANS 
Which early Roman or group of Romans… 
A. Killed his brother Remus to become the first king? 
ANSWER:  
Romulus 
B. Was a group of triplets who faced the Curiatii? 
ANSWER:  
Horatii 
C. Was a wife of Collatinus whose rape sparked the end of the Roman monarchy? 
ANSWER:  
Lucretia 
D. Returned to his farm after becoming dictator in 458 BC? 
ANSWER: Lucius Quinctius  
Cincinnatus 
E. Heroically defended the bridge called the Pons Sublicius? 
ANSWER: Publius  
Horatius 
 Cocles 
F. Was written about by Shakespeare after besieging a Volscian city? 
ANSWER: Gaius Marcius  
Coriolanus 
G. Demonstrated Roman fearlessness by sticking his hand in a fire? 
ANSWER: Gaius  
Mucius 
 Scaevola 
H. Conquered the Etruscan city of Veii and earned four triumphs as five time dictator of Rome? 
ANSWER: Marcus Furius  
Camillus 
015-11-31-1510-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  6 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
LEAGUES 
Which European military league... 
A. Was an association of Greek city-states against the Persian Empire that won the Battle of Plataea? 
ANSWER:  
Delian 
 league 
B. Was named after a region of Northern Italy and allied against Frederick Barbarossa? 
ANSWER:  
Lombard 
 league 
C. Attacked Venice, not Turkey, at the behest of Pope Julius II? 
ANSWER: League of  
Cambrai 
D. Had its forces led by Graf von Tilly in the Thirty Years' War against the Protestants? 
ANSWER:  
Catholic 
 League 
E. Was organized during the French Wars of Religion by the Duc de Guise? 
ANSWER:  
Holy 
 League 
F. Was an alliance of Lutheran princes in the Holy Roman Empire? 
ANSWER:  
Schmalkaldic 
 League 
G. Was an ancient Greek league that fought the Aetolian League? 
ANSWER:  
Achaean 
 League 
H. Was Charles the Bold's alliance against Louis XI? 
ANSWER: League of the  
Public Weal 
026-11-31-1510-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  7 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
CATHEDRAL CITIES 
In which European city would you find... 
A. St. Paul's Cathedral, designed by Christopher Wren? 
ANSWER:  
London 
B. A cathedral on the Île de la Cité accessible from the Pont Neuf? 
ANSWER:  
Paris 
C. The tallest Gothic cathedral, which has two enormous spires? 
ANSWER:  
Cologne 
D. The Gaudi-designed Sagrada Familia? 
ANSWER:  
Barcelona 
E. The cathedral that Claude Monet painted in a series of works? 
ANSWER:  
Rouen 
F. The cathedral in whose Palatine Chapel the Holy Roman Emperors were traditionally crowned? 
ANSWER:  
Aachen 
 [or  
Aix-la-Chappelle 
] 
G. Henry Adams's favorite Gothic cathedral, which is home to a massive collection of stained glass 
windows? 
ANSWER:  
Chartres 
H. St. Stephen's Cathedral, located on the Stephansplatz? 
ANSWER:  
Vienna 
026-11-31-1510-1 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  8 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National History Bowl 11 
Round 15 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
Because Nelson Rockefeller was deemed too liberal, this man was the Vice-Presidential nominee 
for Gerald Ford in the election of 1976. A famous attack ad against this man showed members of a 
family disappearing one by one as (+)  spending cuts this man supported were mentioned. This man’s 
wife was largely responsible for raising the drinking age to 21 while serving as Secretary of 
Transportation under Ronald Reagan, and later served one term as Senator from (*) 
 North Carolina. 
This man became Senate Majority Leader after the Republican Revolution of 1994, but resigned to seek a 
higher office. For 10 points, name this Kansas Senator who ran against Bill Clinton in 1996. 
ANSWER: Robert “Bob”  
Dole 
021-11-31-15101 
2.  
Robert Dold, a Republican, now holds this politician's old seat in the US House of Representatives. 
In 2006 and 2008, this man successfully defended that House seat against the same opponent, Dan 
Seals. In 2010, this man was elected to the Senate despite the defeat of his party's Gubernatorial 
nominee, (+)  Bill Brady, by Patrick Quinn. In that Senate race, this man defeated an opponent who 
was criticized for his running of the failed Broadway Bank, the Greek-American Alexi (*) 
Giannoulias. For 10 points, name this man who in 2010 replaced Roland Burris in the Barack Obama's old 
Senate seat, a Republican from Illinois. 
ANSWER: Mark  
Kirk 
021-11-31-15102 
3.  
During the Revolutionary War, this US state was led by John Rutledge, who would later be 
appointed Chief Justice by George Washington, but rejected by the Senate because of fears he was 
insane. Robert Rhett, a politician from this state, led a political faction called the “fire-eaters” during 
the 1850’s and 60’s. A Senator from this state, (+)  Robert Hayne, was involved in a famous debate 
with Daniel Webster. Revolutionary War heroes from this state include a man nicknamed the 
“Swamp Fox”, Francis Marion, and a man nicknamed the (*) 
 “Gamecock of the Revolution”. This 
state was the target of the Force Act, signed by Andrew Jackson, who threatened to invade this state and 
hang its inhabitants. For 10 points, name this southern state, home to the nullification crisis. 
ANSWER:  
South Carolina 
021-11-31-15103 
4.  
The inhabitants of this location migrated northwards after its downfall and founded the kingdom 
of Monomotapa. Some excavation of this site was carried out by Richard Hall, who is alleged to have 
removed artifacts from this site to support his theory that it (+)  could not have actually been built by 
Africans. Items found here include a coin from Kilwa that demonstrates its trade network and a 
series of eight birds carved from soapstone. Including the Imba Huru, or (*) 
 Great Enclosure, for 10 
points, name this city, now in ruins, that gives part of its name to a nation once called Rhodesia. 
ANSWER:  
Great Zimbabwe 
040-11-31-15104 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  9 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5.  
This scientist worked with Christopher Wren as the chief Surveyor to the City of London after the 
Great Fire. Robert Boyle commissioned this man to construct his namesake air pump. This man felt 
that his work on gravitation and the (+)  inverse square law were left unacknowledged, leading to his 
feud with Isaac Newton. He described taking a close look at such small entities as insects, snowflakes, 
and cork in his book (*) 
Micrographia 
. He developed a law that states that the displacement of a spring is 
proportional to the load on it. For 10 points, name this English scientist who coined the term “cell” and is 
the namesake of a law of elasticity. 
ANSWER: Robert  
Hooke 
015-11-31-15105 
6.  
Hubert Joseph Henry committed suicide for his role in this event, and Raymond Poincare ordered 
an investigation into it. Fernand Gustave Labori defended the person at the center of it, and 
Ferdinand (+)  Esterhazy's handwriting on a critical document exonerated its namesake. The person 
at the center of this incident was sent to Devil's Island before being released. George Clemenceau's 
newspaper  L'Aurore  was the venue in which (*) 
 Emile Zola's letter \"J'Accuse,\" a response to this 
incident, was published. For 10 points, name this incident in French history in which a Jewish army officer 
was falsely accused of treason. 
ANSWER:  
Dreyfuss 
 Affair 
030-11-31-15106 
7.  
The architect Bartolomeo Francesco Rastrelli designed much of this city, including the Smolny 
Monastery on this city's outskirts. This city's suburb of Lomonosov was founded by Prince (+) 
Menshikov, this city's first governor, as a summer retreat. The foundation of this city was made 
possible by the capture of Noteburg and Nienshants, and this city was protected by the fortress at 
Kronstadt. This city is located on the (*) 
 Neva River at the Gulf of Finland. For 10 points, name this 
onetime capital of Russia that was founded by Peter the Great as his \"window to the west.\" 
ANSWER:  
St. Petersburg 
 [prompt on \"Leningrad\"; prompt on \"Petrograd\"] 
030-11-31-15107 
8.  
This film stars May McAvoy as the female lead and Warner Oland as the protagonist’s 
overbearing father. The protagonist of this film first speaks when he tells a crowd “Wait a minute, 
wait a minute. (+)  You ain't heard nothin' yet!” That protagonist runs away from home and changes 
his name from Jakie Rabinowitz to avoid being a cantor for his synagogue. This film stars Al Jolson 
as Jack Robin, who wears (*) 
 blackface after getting a starring role in a broadway show. For 10 points, 
name this 1927 film, the first full length talkie. 
ANSWER:  
The  Jazz Singer 
015-11-31-15108 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National History Bowl 11     Round 15     Page  10 of 10 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
