NASAT 2012 
Round 7 
Tossups 
1. One character in this play discusses the pervasive “holiday feeling” of Paris and says that he needs to 
find the “joy of life.” That character is said to look like his father when smoking a pipe in this play, which 
ends with him muttering, “the sun, the sun.” In this play, a limping carpenter dreams of opening a boarding 
house for sailors, and he eventually acquires the funds to do so by blackmailing a pastor who burns down 
an uninsured orphanage. This play, whose secondary characters include Jakob Engstrand and Pastor 
Manders, ends with the protagonist looking for pills to euthanize her syphilis-stricken son, Oswald. For 10 
points, name this Henrik Ibsen play about Mrs. Alving’s past. 
ANSWER:  
Ghosts 
 [or  
Gengangere 
] 
079-12-59-07102 
2. During one of these events, Acestes shoots an arrow that catches fire in midair. During another event of 
this type, Athena causes Ajax Oileus to trip into the excrement of slaughtered cattle and swallow it. The 
Trojan women set fire to their ships during one of these events; Achilles reconciles with Agamemnon by 
giving him a spear during another, in which he also awards Odysseus with a bowl and Ajax with an ox. 
These events dominate the 23rd book of the  
Iliad 
 and the 5th book of the  
Aeneid 
. For 10 points, name these 
games celebrated for Patroclus and Anchises in honor of their deaths. 
ANSWER:  
funeral games 
 [or the  
funeral games 
 of Patroclus; or the  
funeral games 
 of Anchises; or  
ludi 
funebres 
; prompt on answers like  
footraces archery contests 
,  , or other specific contests] 
080-12-59-07103 
3. A controversy exists over whether this country’s Monte Verde site predates the Clovis people as the 
oldest civilization in the Americas. Its Maipo river valley is famed for Cabernet Sauvignon production. 
This country’s Trancura River is a popular rafting destination, as it flows past the active volcano Villarrica. 
Its Brunswick Peninsula is the site of its southernmost major city, Punta Areanas. One island possessed by 
this country is also called Rapa Nui and is known for its birdman cult and giant moai. It administers the 
Juan Fernandez Islands and Easter Island as special territories. For 10 points, name this South American 
country which shares Tierra del Fuego and a long border with Argentina. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Chile 
015-12-59-07104 
4. One quantity named for this man is squared, then multiplied by three, then divided by quantity 8pi times 
big G to obtain the critical density. In the Friedmann equation, one quantity named for this man is raised to 
the first power. One over a constant named for this man is roughly equal to the age of the universe, which is 
known as this man’s “time.” This man placed Seyfret galaxies at the center of his namesake “tuning fork.” 
This man used Cepheid variables to show that Andromeda was another galaxy. One constant named for this 
man is equal to 71 kilometers per second per megaparsec. For 10 points, name this astronomer whose 
namesake law is used to find the distance to astronomical objects. 
ANSWER: Edwin  
Hubble 
149-12-59-07105 
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  1 of 12 
5. One leader of this organization controversially wore a lapel pin depicting an apparition of a black 
Madonna. The editor of its magazine stated in one speech, \"We draw a thick line on what has happened in 
the past.\" The  
Theses on Hope and Hopelessness 
 were a key text for this organization, which grew out of a 
community organization called KOR. Secretary Kania's soft stance against this group led to the downfall of 
his government. A splinter group known as the \"fighting\" version of this organization formed after this 
group was outlawed in 1981. Later, this organization engaged in the Round Table Talks, which secured free 
elections during the regime of Wojciech Jaruzelski. For 10 points, name this anti-Communist party led by 
Lech Walesa. 
ANSWER: Independent Self-Governing Trade Union \" 
Solidarity 
\" [or Niezalezny Samorzad Zwiazkow 
Zawodowych \" 
Solidarnosc 
\"] 
079-12-59-07106 
6. In Luchino Visconti’s  
The Damned, 
 Martin recreates one of this actress’s performances in drag at his 
grandfather’s birthday party. In a famous shot of this actress, the light falls on her fingers touching her chin 
and her upturned face as the rest of her body is shrouded in darkness. This star of  
Shanghai Express 
 and  
Blonde Venus 
 sings and lifts her knee while sitting on a barrel wearing a shiny top hat and dark stockings in 
her iconic role. This actress played Lola in  
The Blue Angel, 
 the first of her seven films directed by Josef 
von Sternberg. For 10 points, name this classical Hollywood star, a native of Germany. 
ANSWER: Marlene  
Dietrich 
014-12-59-07107 
7. One room in these locations was topped by a bronze shield that could be elevated and lowered with 
chains. 130 curse tablets were discovered at one of these places dedicated to the goddess Sulis. In these 
locations, citizens made use of the sharp strigil in a practice depicted in the  
Apoxyomenos 
 sculpture. They 
made use of hypocaust technology and contained an outdoor  
palaestra 
 used for exercise. Famous examples 
of these structures were built by Diocletian and Caracalla. They contained the  
apodyterium 
, but their most 
frequently-used rooms were the  
frigidarium tepidarium 
,  , and  
caldarium 
. For 10 points, name these public 
structures, also known as  
thermae 
, where Romans cleaned themselves. 
ANSWER: Roman  
baths 
 [or  
balnea 
e; accept  
thermae 
 before read] 
080-12-59-07108 
8. These structures can change size as a result of the XMAP215 protein in Xenopus eggs. Vinca alkaloids 
inhibit the formation of these structures. In these structures, CLASP inhibits a process called “catastrophe,” 
which is followed by “rescue” in a growth process caused by the hydrolysis of GTP called dynamic 
instability. The drugs colchicine and taxol stop the polymerization of these structures’ alpha and beta 
dimers, which bind to GTP. They nucleate with the help of gamma-ring proteins in their namesake 
organizing centers. Kinesins moves molecules to their plus ends, and dyneins move molecules to their 
negative ends. They come in a 9 plus 2 arrangement in flagella. For 10 points, name these components of 
the cytoskeleton made of tubulin. 
ANSWER:  
microtubule 
s [or  
tubulin 
 till mention] 
079-12-59-07109 
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  2 of 12 
9. Robert Armin played several examples of these characters, including one who marries the goatherd 
Audrey even as he predicts the marriage will not last. Another delivers the line, “And I'll go to bed at 
noon” before his unexplained disappearance from his play. That character recites a strange prophecy he 
claims Merlin will repeat in the future, and many scholars have suggested he and Cordelia were played by 
the same boy actor. Another of these characters pretends to be a priest to help Maria and Sir Toby Belch 
into making Malvolio believe he has been locked up for insanity. Feste and Touchstone are examples of, 
for 10 points, what motley-dressed characters, who are often sources of comic relief? 
ANSWER:  
fool 
s [or  
clown 
s] 
121-12-59-07110 
10. The lowermost step visible in this painting is inscribed with a quote in Latin from Quintilian and a 
quote in Greek from Longinus. The background of this work contains a temple whose frieze was taken 
from the work of John Flaxman. On its right side, three men in a crowd proffer a lyre, a hammer, and a 
golden box. The title character of this painting is flanked by two women in red and green dress, attributed 
respectively with a sword and an oar. In this painting, \"sovereign geniuses\" like Moliere, Dante, and 
Shakespeare stand around as the winged Nike prepares to wreath the title character. For 10 points, name 
this Neoclassical painting by Jean-Dominique Ingres, which celebrates the author of the  
Iliad 
. 
ANSWER:  
The  Apotheosis of Homer 
080-12-59-07111 
11. This poem describes how “barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day, and touch the stubble plains with 
rosy hue.” The speaker tells this poem’s addressee, “Sometimes whoever seeks abroad may find thee 
sitting careless on a granary floor.” This poem mentions how “in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn…and 
gathering swallows twitter in the skies.” Although not titled as one, this poem is the last of its author’s 
1819 odes, and its final stanza begins by asking, “Where are the songs of Spring?” For 10 points, name this 
poem about a “season of mists and mellow fruitfulness” written by John Keats. 
ANSWER: “ 
To Autumn 
” 
014-12-59-07112 
12. This country's mythology includes a group of seven gods who sail on the \"treasure ship\" to hand out 
gifts on New Year's Day. Its folktales also tell of birdlike monsters able to disguise themselves as 
\"mountain priests,\" whose name means \"heavenly dogs.\" Humans can escape another monster from this 
country's folklore by bowing and forcing it to bow back, thus causing it to spill the water stored inside its 
head. Monsters in this country's legends include the tengu and the kappa. For 10 points, name this country 
which reveres  
kami 
 like Amaterasu. 
ANSWER:  
Japan 
 [or  
Nippon 
] 
080-12-59-07113 
13. The fatty substance Lecithin is typically used as one of these compounds in food. These compounds are 
classified according to their tails and their counter ion. One of these compounds is used in polyacrylamide 
gel electrophoresis to denature proteins. Aggregates of these compounds dispersed in a liquid colloid are 
known as micelles. Sodium doceyl sulfate or SDS is an example of these compounds. These compounds 
are amphiphilic since they have hydrophobic and hydrophilic regions. Different types of these compounds 
include detergents, emulsifiers and dispersants. For 10 points, name these compounds that reduce surface 
tension. 
ANSWER:  
surfactant 
 [prompt on  
detergent 
s before mentioned] 
149-12-59-07114 
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  3 of 12 
14. One of this ruler's first acts was to execute Marina Mniszech and her son, the four-year-old \"little 
brigand.\" He was advised by the war hero Dmitri Pozharsky. During this man's reign, the Truce of Deulino 
was signed with Poland, and the Treaty of Stolbovo was signed with Sweden. This man's father was 
accused of treason and sent into exile, where he became a priest under the name Filaret. This man was 
offered the throne after being chosen by the zemsky sobor while he was living with his mother at a 
monastery. This man strengthened both Russia's central government and the institution of serfdom during 
his rule, which ended the Time of Troubles. For 10 points, name this tsar who started the Romanov 
dynasty. 
ANSWER:  
Michael 
 Fyodorovich Romanov [or  
Mikhail 
] 
105-12-59-07115 
15. One way of participating in this activity is to use the “mpura” or “pardon me” approach which, if used 
too much, will lead to feuds. In one work, an author and his wife create great solidarity with villagers after 
they all flee from the police after attending one of these events. That author uses the Erving 
Goffman-coined terms “focused gathering” and “status bloodbath” to describe it, writing that it takes on 
greater significance if it is “between near status equals.” “Notes” on one of these events appear in an essay 
titled “Deep Play,” which is found in the book  
The Interpretation of Cultures 
 as an example of thick 
description. For 10 points, name this illegal activity, which Clifford Geertz used to analyze Balinese 
culture. 
ANSWER:  
cockfights 
 [or  
cockfighting 
] 
052-12-59-07116 
16. It's not a string instrument, but Beethoven's Ninth requires these instruments to play a double stop. Two 
of these instruments disrupt the opening theme of the finale of another work by playing F/B and D-flat/G 
tritones. That work requires them to change their pitch while playing, features them at opposite ends of the 
orchestra, and is Carl Nielsen's \"Inextinguishable\" Symphony. In the original version of Grieg's Piano 
Concerto, they add to a horn crescendo by playing a namesake \"roll.\" In another solo, these instruments 
play two notes over and over to represent hunters in  
Peter and the Wolf 
. For 10 points, identify this 
percussion instrument also known as the kettledrum. 
ANSWER:  
timpani 
 [accept singular  
timpano 
; accept  
kettledrum 
s before it is read] 
066-12-59-07117 
17. One form of this quantity has an interior contribution of one-half, or mu over 2 times mu naught, that 
disappears at higher frequencies. When Y equals 0 due to the skin effect, one form of this quantity reduces 
to another. The Gaussian unit for it is one ninth times ten to the negative eleven times the SI unit for it. The 
phasor form of this quantity is equal to it times pi over 2. Leakage flux arises when a portion of a 
transformer with this quantity is in series with a mutually-coupled pair of devices with this quantity. 
Coming in “mutual” and “self” forms, this quantity is multiplied by one half I squared to obtain the energy 
that can be stored in a magnetic field by a device drawn as a coil. For 10 points, name this quantity, 
symbolized L, that is measured in henries. 
ANSWER:  
inductance 
020-12-59-07118 
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  4 of 12 
18. This author wrote a work in which the protagonist screams, “Don’t! Break! Human! Pride!” after being 
berated by vocal teacher Judith Fellowes. In that work by this man, the Herzkopfs are a German couple 
staying at a location run by Maxine Faulk. This author created the Reverend Lawrence Shannon, an 
ex-minister who arrives at the Costa Verde Hotel in Mexico as a tourist guide. In another of his works, a 
character is haunted by the recent death of his football playing friend, Skipper. In that play by this man, 
Gooper and Mae eagerly await their inheritance, while Maggie and her husband Brick eventually reveal 
that Big Daddy is dying. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote  
The Night of the Iguana 
 and  
Cat 
on a Hot Tin Roof. 
ANSWER: Tennessee  
Williams 
 [or Thomas Lanier  
Williams 
 III] 
052-12-59-07119 
19. This thinker criticized proofs of Euclid’s parallel postulate since they attempt to use abstract concepts 
to show what is clear from perception. He gave 38 ways to win an argument in the sarcastic  
The Art of 
Being Right. 
 Becoming, Knowing, Being, and Willing are the title concepts of one work by this author. In 
addition to  
On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason, 
 he wrote a work that reexamined the 
“thing-in-itself.” The two title concepts of that work refer to nature’s desire for life and the image of what 
is external to the mind. For 10 points, name this pessimistic philosopher who wrote  
The World as Will and 
Representation. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Schopenhauer 
127-12-59-07120 
20. Ronald Ridenhour wrote an important letter about this event, the aftermath of which was photographed 
by Ronald Haeberle. Oran K. Henderson was the highest-ranking officer tried in relation to this event. 
Glenn Andreotta, Lawrence Colburn, and pilot Hugh Thompson received awards thirty years after this 
event for their actions. \"Pinkville\" was the codename for the location of this event, which Colin Powell has 
been accused of covering up. The initial stages of this event were organized by Ernest Medina. Second 
Lieutenant William Calley was the only individual convicted in response to this event. For 10 points, name 
this 1968 massacre of hundreds of unarmed villagers in South Vietnam. 
ANSWER:  
My Lai 
 Massacre 
014-12-59-07121 
21. One character in this novel sings the blues song “Mama Doan Wan’ No Peas.” One of this novel’s 
characters nearly had sex with Romola Martin while working as a hotel’s bookkeeper. Another character 
sells silver polish door-to-door and jokes around because he used to be a clown. The dwarf Abe Kusich 
works as a bookie for Miguel’s cockfights in this novel. At the end of this novel, the brat Adore Loomis 
throws a rock at one of the main characters, whose violent reaction causes a mob to riot against him. The 
other main character is painting a canvas called  
The Burning of Los Angeles. 
 For 10 points, the designer 
Tod Hackett and the screenwriter Homer Simpson are the protagonists of what Hollywood-set novel by 
Nathanael West? 
ANSWER:  
The  Day of the Locust 
079-12-59-07122 
22. Stanley Engerman and Robert Fogel argued that this institution was less inefficient than it is often 
thought to have been in their book  
Time on the Cross 
. George Fitzhugh called it \"the best form of 
socialism\" in one of his books. This institution derives from \"great truth\" according to the \"Cornerstone 
speech.\" In response to remarks made by William Rives, it was called not a \"lesser evil but a positive 
good.\" In the United States, codes regulating this institution were based on those of rice planters in 
Barbados. People involved in it took the Middle Passage from Africa to the New World. For 10 points, 
name this system of forced labor that was outlawed by the Thirteenth Amendment. 
ANSWER: American  
slavery 
 [or equivalent answers] 
121-12-59-07123 
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  5 of 12 
23. Heinz Kohut believed mental duress was caused by an incomplete kind of this, which could be filled 
with transitional objects. D.W. Winnicott proposed a “false” type of this concept was responsible for 
psychological disorder. George Herbert Mead argued children show an understanding of a crude form of it 
when roleplaying. Mead also divided this concept into the “I” and “me” in his book titled for mind, this 
concept, and society. The mirror test shows most animals are not aware of this concept, viewing their 
reflections as other individuals. The desire “to become everything one is capable of becoming” defines the 
actualization of this concept according to Abraham Maslow. For 10 points, name this projection of one's 
identity. 
ANSWER: the  
self 
 [prompt on  
identity 
 or other equivalents] 
121-12-59-07124 
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  6 of 12 
NASAT 2012 
Round 7 
Bonuses 
1. This opera ends with shots firing that turn out to be rejoicing and not those of a firing squad. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this opera in which the servant Ninetta is sentenced to death by the villainous Mayor after the 
title creature is responsible for taking a silver spoon. It features the aria “Deh, tu reggi in tal momento.” 
ANSWER:  
La  gazza ladra 
 [or  
The  Thieving Magpie 
] 
[10]  
The Thieving Magpie 
 is a work by this Italian composer, who also composed the opera  
The Barber of 
Seville 
 and  
William Tell 
. 
ANSWER: Gioachino Antonio  
Rossini 
[10] Rossini wrote this opera in which the title character is the stepdaughter of Don Magnifico and forced 
to work as a maid, but finds happiness in the hands of Prince Ramiro. The title character’s real name is 
Angelina. 
ANSWER:  
La  Cenerentola , ossia La bontia in trionfo 
 [or  
Cinderella , or Goodness Triumphant 
] 
052-12-59-07201  
2. These winds generate a great deal of turbulence known to airline pilots as \"clear-air turbulence.\" For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name these discontinuous bands of relatively strong winds found in the upper troposphere. 
ANSWER:  
jet stream 
s 
[10] Jet streams stop at this boundary layer in the atmosphere at which the temperature inversion between 
the stratosphere and the troposphere occurs. 
ANSWER:  
tropopause 
[10] This quantity is equal to the rate at which temperature decreases as height increases. The dry adiabatic 
version of this quantity is the rate at which the temperature of a parcel of dry air decreases as it rises in the 
atmosphere. 
ANSWER:  
lapse 
 rate 
149-12-59-07202  
3. Arthur Griffith called this play a “vile and inhuman story.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play by John Millington Synge. It tells of Christy Mahon, who claims to the occupants of 
Flaherty’s tavern that he has killed his father, and it caused riots when it premiered in January 1907. 
ANSWER:  
The  Playboy of the Western World 
[10] Synge was born on this island. The play is set in this island’s County Mayo and it was first performed 
at the Abbey Theatre in its most populous city. 
ANSWER:  
Ireland 
[10] Riots again broke out during the premiere of this Sean O’Casey play in February 1926. Its characters 
include bricklayer Jack Clitheroe, a member of the Irish Citizen Army, and his wife Nora, and its final two 
acts take place during the Easter Rising. 
ANSWER:  
The  Plough and the Stars 
052-12-59-07203  
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  7 of 12 
4. This author wrote about two young women's attempts to convince their guardian that their lovers are 
moon-people in the  
commedia dell'arte 
-inspired  
Emperor of the Moon. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this first female professional playwright in England. Her prose works include one about a 
\"Royal Slave,\"  
Oroonoko. 
ANSWER: Aphra  
Behn 
[10] This Behn play follows a bunch of young Englishmen who cavort around Naples during Carnival. At 
its end, Hellena marries Wilmore instead of joining a convent. 
ANSWER:  
The  Rover 
[10] On top of being a playwright, Aphra Behn worked in this profession for Charles II. People of this 
profession are the subject of novels by John le Carre and Ian Fleming. 
ANSWER:  
spy 
 [or  
secret agent 
; or obvious equivalents] 
080-12-59-07204  
5. For 10 points each, name some stuff about the Gnostic gospels. 
[10] The Gnostic gospel of this person consists of sayings of Jesus but does not contain an account of his 
life or explicitly refer to his divinity. Its author is notable for attempting to spread Christianity to India. 
ANSWER:  
Thomas 
[10] The discovery of the Gospel of Thomas led greater credence to the theory of this source's existence. 
This source, with a one letter name, contained many sayings of Jesus and was used as the source material 
for the gospels of Matthew and Luke. 
ANSWER:   Document [or  uelle] 
Q Q 
[10] Elaine Pagels, who wrote  
Beyond Belief 
 about the Gospel of Thomas, also wrote an introduction to this 
cache of documents, found in 1945 in Egypt and written by the Gnostics. 
ANSWER: the  
Nag Hammadi 
 texts 
040-12-59-07205  
6. Answer these questions about the Reconquista, for 10 points each. 
[10] These Christian people declared the Reconquista in 711. These victors at Covadonga settled Spain 
after losing to Clovis at Vouillé; in 410, their king Alaric sacked Rome. 
ANSWER:  
Visigoth 
s [prompt on  
Goths 
] 
[10] One turning point in the Reconquista was this 1212 battle, at which Sancho VII's Navarrese troops cut 
down a human shield of slaves chained around the tents of al-Nasir's Almohad forces. 
ANSWER: Battle of Las  
Navas de Tolosa 
 [or Battle of  
al-Uqab 
] 
[10] This founder of the Kingdom of Asturias began the Reconquista with his victory at Covadonga in 722. 
ANSWER:  
Pelagius 
 of Asturias [or  
Pelayo 
 of Asturias] 
104-12-59-07206  
7. Red and white phosphorus are examples of them. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these multiple forms of the same element, such as diamond and graphite for carbon. 
ANSWER:  
allotrope 
s [accept word forms like  
allotropy 
 or  
allotropism 
] 
[10] This element exists in a number of cyclic allotropes. This element is most commonly found in a ring of 
eight atoms that has a yellow-green color. 
ANSWER:  
sulfur 
[10] At iron's transition from ferrite to austenite, it loses this crystal structure whose unit cell consists of an 
atom stationed at each corner of the unit cell and another atom located in the center of the unit cell. 
ANSWER:  
body centered cubic 
 [or  
bcc 
] 
064-12-59-07207  
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  8 of 12 
8. At this event, Nelson Rockefeller was heckled for over fifteen minutes, and Margaret Chase Smith's 
name was entered for nomination in a historic moment. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this event that took place at the San Francisco \"Cow Palace.\" Its most notable moment featured 
the eventual nominee saying \"extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice,\" and \"moderation in the 
pursuit of justice is no virtue.\" 
ANSWER:  
1964 Republican 
 National  
Convention 
 [or  
1964 RNC 
] 
[10] That nominee, who would go on to lose to Lyndon Johnson, was this Arizona conservative. His 
aggressive foreign policy views were mocked by the LBJ campaign's infamous \"daisy spot.\" 
ANSWER: Barry Morris  
Goldwater 
[10] In the 1980s, Goldwater said that \"every good Christian ought to kick\" this man in the rear. This 
co-founder of the Moral Majority sued  
Hustler 
 magazine in 1983 for libel and emotional distress. 
ANSWER: Jerry Lamon  
Falwell 
, Sr. 
052-12-59-07208  
9. Answer these questions about the  
School of Athens 
, for 10 points each. 
[10] It was painted by this Renaissance artist, also known for the  
Sistine Madonna 
. 
ANSWER:  
Raphael 
 Sanzio [or Raphael  
Sanzio 
] 
[10] In the background, on the left wall, is a relief sculpture of this Greek god. A marble sculpture of this 
god can be found in the Belvedere Courtyard. 
ANSWER:  
Apollo 
[10] Michelangelo was the model for Raphael's depiction of this man, who wears large boots and uses a 
marble slab as his writing desk apart from the other thinkers. He is thus depicted as \"the weeping 
philosopher.\" 
ANSWER:  
Heraclitus 
080-12-59-07209  
10. This character parachutes from a plane taking him to Moscow, stranding him in the Sahara until he is 
rescued by an Arab caravan. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this literary character, the illegitimate son of a munitions salesman. In such novels as  
World’s 
End 
 and  
Dragon’s Teeth, 
 he gets involved in two world wars and takes on missions for President Franklin 
Roosevelt. 
ANSWER:  
Lanny 
 Budd [or Lanny  
Budd 
] 
[10] Lanny Budd was created by this author, a muckraker who exposed the meat packing industry in  
The 
Jungle. 
ANSWER: Upton Beall  
Sinclair 
 Jr. 
[10] In this Sinclair novel, “Bunny” Ross is the son of a tycoon in the namesake industry. Bunny has an 
affair with the actress Vee Tracy, while another character is the Communist Paul Watkins. 
ANSWER:  
Oil! 
052-12-59-07210  
11. One of this composer's piano pieces was used for  
Alfred Hitchcock Presents 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer of  
Funeral March of a Marionette 
 and the  
Pontifical March 
. 
ANSWER: Charles-François  
Gounod 
[10] Gounod set this prayer to the Virgin Mary over an arrangement of Bach's Prelude No. 1 from  
The 
Well-Tempered Clavier 
. 
ANSWER:  
Ave Maria 
[10] Another popular setting of the  
Ave Maria 
 is a piece in this composer's setting of Walter Scott's  
Lady of 
the Lake 
. 
ANSWER: Franz Peter  
Schubert 
066-12-59-07211  
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  9 of 12 
12. The ideal magnetohydrodynamic equations only apply to these substances when they are strongly 
collisional. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this state of matter formed by heating a gas so that many of its particles are ionized. 
ANSWER:  
plasma 
[10] For plasmas whose charged particles have long-range interactions, this variant of the Boltzmann 
transport equation is used. 
ANSWER:  
Vlasov 
-Maxwell equation [or  
Vlasov 
-Poisson equation; do not accept \"Maxwell equation\"; do 
not accept \"Poisson equation\"] 
[10] At high densities and temperatures in QCD, asymptotically free quarks will exist in a \"plasma\" with 
these mediators of the strong force. 
ANSWER:  
gluon 
s 
020-12-59-07212  
13. A \"good woman from Vishegorye\" blesses this character to live another twenty years and gives him a 
sum of sixty kopecks to donate to someone poorer than herself. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this saintly monk who takes Alyosha as a novice and was inspired by the real-life Saint 
Ambrose of Optina. 
ANSWER: Father  
Zosima 
[10] Father Zosima appears in this Dostoevsky novel in which Dmitri is arrested for the murder of his 
father Fyodor, the patriarch of the title family. 
ANSWER:  
The  Brothers Karamazov 
 [or  
Brat'ya Karamazovy 
] 
[10] This brother of Alyosha relates the story of the \"Grand Inquisitor\" to him and develops an atheistic 
worldview in response to human suffering. 
ANSWER:  
Ivan 
 Fyodorovich Karamazov [or  
Vanya 
; or  
Vanka 
; or  
Vanechka 
; prompt on  
Karamazov 
] 
020-12-59-07213  
14. This effect was first seen in commanding officers' judgments of their men, and recent research has 
focused on when it is caused by attractiveness, showing that more beautiful people are treated differently in 
dictator game scenarios. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this effect in which an overall impression of a person influences judgments of their specific 
characteristics. 
ANSWER:  
halo 
 effect 
[10] The halo effect was first postulated by this psychologist, who used a hungry cat trapped in a puzzle 
box in his development of the law of effect. 
ANSWER: Edward  
Thorndike 
[10] Thorndike was a proponent of the \"active\" form of this concept, for which he formulated the laws of 
readiness, exercise, and effect. Its \"associative\" type requires two linked stimuli, and, in general, it refers to 
the acquiring or adjustment of knowledge. 
ANSWER:  
learn 
ing 
040-12-59-07214  
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  10 of 12 
15. This city in the First Coast region surrounds the St. John’s River, and takes up most of Duval County. 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this city in Florida’s northeast, America’s largest by area and Florida’s largest by population 
size. 
ANSWER:  
Jacksonville 
, Florida 
[10] This town south of Jacksonville is notable for its founding in 1565 by Spanish settlers, making it the 
oldest continuously-inhabited European settlement in the Americas. 
ANSWER:  
St. Augustine 
[10] Jacksonville is home to the largest building of this kind in Florida; other notables ones include the 
Geisel one in San Diego and one whose entrance is flanked by statues of \"patience\" and \"fortitude.\" 
ANSWER:  
library 
 [or  
libraries 
] 
104-12-59-07215  
16. This god of air is the husband of Tefnut. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this early Egyptian god, the father of Geb and Nut who separated the earth from the sky. 
ANSWER:  
Shu 
[10] This supreme god of the sun fathered Shu and Tefnut. The first humans were formed from the tears of 
this god often depicted as a falcon with a sun disc on his head. 
ANSWER:  
Ra 
 [or Amun- 
Ra 
; or  
Ra 
-Horakhty; or Atum- 
Ra 
] 
[10] This giant snake attacks Ra's solar barge daily. Like Set, he serves as a symbol of chaos and 
destruction. 
ANSWER:  
Apep 
105-12-59-07216  
17. This alliance resulted in one navy joining up with the forces of Admiral Barbarossa. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this alliance that, despite being called \"unholy,\" was crucial for a European power under Francis 
I, who formed it after being defeated by Charles V at Pavia. The two powers jointly fought such campaigns 
as the 1543 siege of Nice. 
ANSWER:  
French-Ottoman 
 alliance [or  
French-Turkish 
 alliance; accept word forms] 
[10] Charles V was a member of this house, which took its name from a fortress built in Switzerland. This 
house produced many Holy Roman Emperors and eventually split into Austrian and Spanish branches. 
ANSWER:  
Hapsburg 
 [or  
Habsburg 
] 
[10] The Ottomans were irked when the French, under the reign of this son of Francis I, signed the Peace of 
Cateau-Cambresis, ending war with the Hapsburgs. This ruler died during a 1559 jousting match. 
ANSWER:  
Henry II 
 of France [or  
Henri II 
; prompt on  
Henry 
] 
052-12-59-07217  
18. It can be seen in liverworts, mosses, and some algae. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give this term for the life cycle of plants in which a haploid stage is followed by a diploid stage, 
meaning that it is sometimes a sporophyte and sometimes a gametophyte. 
ANSWER:  
alternation of generation 
s 
[10] The gametophyte produces spores by this process of cell division in which the step of crossing over 
between homologous chromosomes ensures that the genetic material of the end products is not identical to 
the parent cells. 
ANSWER:  
meiosis 
[10] This is the term for the joining of homologous chromosomes during prophase I of meiosis. 
ANSWER:  
synapsis 
040-12-59-07218  
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  11 of 12 
19. Esteban and Uncle Pio die on this novel's title structure. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel, in which Brother Juniper attempts to explain how the deaths of five people were all 
part of God’s plan, but only gets burnt at the stake for his trouble. 
ANSWER:  
The  Bridge of San Luis Rey 
[10]  
The Bridge of San Luis Rey 
 was written by this man, who also wrote about the inhabitants of Grover’s 
Corners in the play  
Our Town. 
ANSWER: Thornton Niven  
Wilder 
[10] Wilder's play  
The Skin of Our Teeth 
 focuses on this family, who are present during the three 
surrealistic acts. During the play, this family endures an ice age and the aftermath of a war, and the family 
patriarch, George, becomes head of the Fraternal Order of Mammals. 
ANSWER:  
Antrobus 
052-12-59-07219  
20. This king banned sport hunting and allowed prisoners to walk free for one day of the year. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this Mauryan king who converted to Buddhism after initially being a bloodthirsty tyrant. 
ANSWER:  
Ashoka 
 the Great [or  
Asoka 
] 
[10] Ashoka promised roadside assistance and promoted kindness to animals in these 33 works, inscribed 
on rocks, pillars, boulders, and cave walls. 
ANSWER: Ashoka's  
edict 
s 
[10] The most famous artifact from Ashoka's reign is a pillar with four lions on its capital located at this 
site. 
ANSWER:  
Sarnath 
a [or  
Mrigadava 
; or  
Migadaya 
; or  
Rishipattana 
; or  
Isipatana 
] 
020-12-59-07220  
21. The general solution to the inhomogenuous one-dimensional version of this equation is d'Alembert's 
formula. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this second-order linear PDE, which states that the second partial time derivative of u equals c 
squared times the Laplacian of u. 
ANSWER:  
wave 
 equation 
[10] One can derive the one-dimensional wave equation from this principle of elasticity, stated as F equals 
negative kx. 
ANSWER:  
Hooke 
's law 
[10] For a resonant, rotating wave, one can use this technique by which a small term is added to a solvable 
problem to approximate the solution to a problem not exactly solvable. 
ANSWER:  
perturbation 
 theory 
020-12-59-07221  
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2012     Round 7     Page  12 of 12 
