NASAT 2011 
Round 19 
Tossups 
1. In response to these works, Bedrich Smetana composed a group of pieces which include \"Oats\" and \"The 
Little Onion.\" The fourth and sixth of these works are slow waltzes named for \"neighbors,\" while the fifth 
and seventh are upbeat and are named \"jumping.\" Their composer's Opus 46 and Opus 72, these works 
were originally published for piano four-hands and include two furiants. Commissioned after the success of 
their composer's  
Moravian Duets 
, these pieces catapulted their composer to fame after being published by 
Fritz Simrock. Although they were inspired by the folk melodies of Brahms's  
Hungarian Dances 
, they 
consist of original melodies set to the rhythms of traditional music from Bohemia. For 10 points, name this 
nationalistic set of dances composed by Antonin Dvorak. 
ANSWER:  
Slavonic Dances 
020-11-30-19102 
2. One of this thinker's works discusses the \"modifications of realities\" which this thinker terms \"surplus 
repression,\" which is distinguished from repression. In that work by this thinker, he critiques another 
thinker's conception of the \"guilt feeling\" as ever increasing in a section called \"The Dialectic of 
Civilization.\" In another work this thinker critiques capitalism and communism to posit a distinction 
between \"true needs\" and \"repressive needs\" before proposing that humanity accept the \"great refusal.\" For 
10 points, identify this Frankfurt school thinker who critiqued Sigmund Freud in his  
 Eros and Civilization,  
who also wrote  
 One-Dimensional Man  
. 
ANSWER: Herbert  
Marcuse 
033-11-30-19103 
3. This author wrote a novel narrated by a CIA ghostwriter who has an affair with his codenamed mentor's 
wife Kittredge, while in another book Sergius O'Shaughnessy moves to the fictional town Desert D'Or, 
based on Palm Springs. This author of  
Harlot's Ghost 
 wrote a book divided into sections titled \"Western 
Voices\" and \"Eastern Voices\" that examines Nicole Baker's love for a condemned murderer. In his 
best-known book, Robert Hearn serves as the aide to General Cummings while leading an assault on the 
fictional Pacific Island of Anopopei. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the real life murderer 
Gary Gilmore in  
The Executioner's Song 
 and also penned  
The Naked and the Dead 
. 
ANSWER: Norman  
Mailer 
105-11-30-19104 
4. In the particle-in-a-box model, this quantity is equal to the sum of A sin k x plus B cos k x quantity times 
e to the i omega t, and for the hydrogen atom model this quantity contains the product of a spherical 
harmonic and a Laguerre polynomial. The norm of these quantities is necessarily equal to 1, and the square 
of the magnitude of this quantity at any given state is the probability of the system existing at that state. In 
one interpretation, observation of a system causes the eigenstates of this value to be replaced by a single 
eigenstate. The Hamiltonian operator of this quantity is equal to the total energy of the system times this 
quantity; that equation is named for Schrodinger. For 10 points, name this quantity symbolized psi and used 
to describe the state of a quantum mechanical system. 
ANSWER:  
wavefunction 
033-11-30-19105 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  1 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. The first act of this play is set in a building on Half-Moon Street, where one character notes that the 
\"truth is rarely pure and never simple.\" In Tom Stoppard's  
Travesties 
, the diplomat Henry Carr remembers 
acting in a Zurich production of this play. In it, tension rises when one character produces a cigarette case 
engraved by Cecily. Miss Prism's revelation that she had left a baby in a handbag at Victoria station causes 
Jack to realize that he is the brother of Algernon Moncrieff in this play. For 10 points, name this play 
whose title is a pun on a name's similarity to a word meaning \"sincere,\" a work by Oscar Wilde. 
ANSWER:  
The  Importance of Being Earnest 
081-11-30-19106 
6. One son of this woman eloped with Marguerite of Lorraine before being exposed by the Duke of 
Montmorency. That son was Gaston, Duke of Orleans. A more notable son of this woman was convinced 
by Charles d'Albert to break with this queen, despite a peace that had been established via the Treaty of 
Loudun. This woman was then forced into exile, ending her regency. She had gained political power after 
Francois Ravaillac killed her husband, believing his conversion insincere. For 10 points, identify this wife 
of Henry IV, a member of a famous Italian noble family who controlled France during the minority of 
Louis XIII. 
ANSWER:  
Marie de Medici 
 [prompt on partial answer] 
081-11-30-19107 
7. The sura \"The City of Saba\" describes one building in this city as having cauldrons and arches put in 
place by djinns. This city was once the home of “the farthest mosque,” which was travelled to on the horse 
Buraq. Before the choice of Mecca, this city was faced towards while praying. This waypoint on the Night 
Journey is where the Well of Souls is found under the Dome of the Rock; this city is also home to the 
al-Aqsa mosque, built on the Temple Mount. For 10 points, identify this city which, behind Mecca and 
Medina, is often called the “third holiest” in Islam. 
ANSWER:  
Jerusalem 
019-11-30-19108 
8. This work was commissioned by Pedro Salazar de Mendoza for the Tavera hospital as part of a series 
meant to include the works  
Baptism 
 and  
Annunciation 
. In the background of this work, green and yellow 
draperies hang behind several nude figures who stand below a flying cherub in a backdrop of swirling 
clouds. The front of this work sees a red robe behind a man in bluish-green robes pointing towards heaven. 
The arrangement of the central figures in this work is believed to have inspired Picasso’s  
Demoiselles 
d’Avignon 
. For 10 points, name this painting by El Greco which shows Saint John in the foreground 
pointing towards the sky. 
ANSWER:  
The  Opening of the Fifth Seal 
 [or  
The  Vision of Saint John 
 before Saint John; or  
The  Fifth 
Seal of the Apocalypse 
] 
064-11-30-19109 
9. One of the winning sergeants of this battle captured and defended a four-story apartment building now 
called Pavlov's House. The victors of this battle kept their front line as close to the opponents as possible, a 
strategy called “hugging,” which forced most of the fighting onto Mamayev Kurgan Hill. The losers were 
hoping to capture a set of oilfields with a plan dubbed Case Blue. With Operation Uranus, the winners 
encircled General Paulus after the Sixth Army failed to create an “air bridge” with the Luftwaffe. A part of 
Operation Barbarossa, this five-month battle on the Volga claimed some two million lives before Russia 
and the Allies proved victorious. For 10 points, name this turning point of the Eastern Front of World War 
II. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Stalingrad 
079-11-30-19110 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  2 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This particle corresponds to the “plus one-half” eigenvalue of the z-component of the isospin, and the 
dominant decay mode of the neutral lambda is into a negative pion and this particle. This particle can be 
found at the intersection of the S equals 0 and Q equals 1 lines of the baryon octet. Stackelberg proposed 
the conservation of baryon number to account for the stability of this particle, whose lifetime is currently 
figured to be at least 10 to the 34th power years. Predicted to decay in some grand unified theories, this 
particle accounts for the majority of the composition of cosmic rays, and can transform into a heavier 
baryon by capturing an electron. Consisting of two up quarks and a down quark, for 10 points, identify this 
subatomic particle, the nucleonic partner of the neutron. 
ANSWER:  
proton 
043-11-30-19111 
11. The introduction to this work summarizes the historical lead-up to the foundation of Britain, starting 
with the sack of Troy. The protagonist of this work rides his horse Gringolet to a castle on Christmas Day, 
where he refuses a golden ring before receiving a silk girdle from a woman. He keeps this gift secret from 
the lord of the castle, Bercilak da Hautdesert, causing the protagonist to bleed heavily from an axe blow to 
his neck later in this work. That strike is delivered after the protagonist beheads a man disguised by Morgan 
le Fay on Christmas Eve. For 10 points, name this Middle English work of literature attributed to the Pearl 
Poet that focuses on a knight of King Arthur's court. 
ANSWER:  
Sir  Gawain and the Green Knight 
088-11-30-19112 
12. Marcus theory was developed to explain this type of reaction. Henry Taube pioneered using isotope 
tracers to study this type of reaction. One major subtype of these reactions are classified by the inner 
sphere, outer sphere dichotomy. In cells, many of these reactions are catalyzed by flavoproteins. One way 
in which these can occur is hydride transfer. The Nernst equation allows for determining species activities 
in one of these reactions at a given potential. These are either atom or electron transfer reactions. One 
usually balances these by half reactions. For 10 points, name these reactions that see participants change 
their oxidation states. 
ANSWER:  
redox 
 reaction [or  
reduction-oxidation 
 reaction; or  
oxidation-reduction 
 reaction; or  
electron 
transfer 
 reaction before mentioned] 
001-11-30-19113 
13. In one section of this work, Foggy recalls a conversation between two forresters at the title ravine' that 
section is titled \"Raspberry Water.\" The central character of this work becomes ill and visits the doctor 
Trifon Ivanych, who describes his marriage to his dying patient Alexandra. This work grew out of the 
success of a story about two contrasting peasants who work for Polutykin and are named Khor and 
Kalinych. As the central character of this work tries to sleep, Vasily Vasilych delivers a lengthy monologue 
about his own mediocrity in the story “Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District.” For 10 points, name this 
collection of stories about life in the country by Ivan Turgenev. 
ANSWER:  
A  Sportsman’s Sketches 
 [or  
The  Hunting Sketches 
; or  
Sketches from a Hunter’s Album 
; or  
Zapiski okhotnika 
; or  
Russian Life in the Interior 
] 
015-11-30-19114 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  3 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. Nesprin 2 Giant helps to organize and maintain this structure. The LEM domain is associated with 
proteins in this location. Other important proteins here include emerin and MAN1 which are found in its 
inner region. It is bridged by Nup210 and movement through that bridging substructure is controlled by 
proteins like RAN and importin. One disease caused alterations to this structure is progeria which results 
from mutations in its intermediate filaments called lamins. This structure contains pores and is contiguous 
with the ER. It is disassembled near the end of prophase. For 10 points, name this double lipid bilayer that 
surrounds the nucleus. 
ANSWER:  
nuclear envelope 
 [or  
nuclear membrane 
; accept  
nuclear lamina 
 before Nup210 and prompt 
afterwards; prompt on  
nucleus 
] 
001-11-30-19115 
15. Former schoolteacher George Ruby was an administrator and traveling agent for this organization, and 
J.W. Alvord served as an inspector. This organization used a textbook that placed particular emphasis on 
avoiding bitterness and forgiving enemies. Its head was a man known as the “Christian General,” who is 
the namesake of a Washington, D.C. university that is the alma mater of Thurgood Marshall. That man was 
Oliver O. Howard. Andrew Johnson’s attempts to veto funding for it were one of the sticking points 
between him and Radical Republicans, but it was eventually dissolved under Grant. For 10 points, name 
this organization founded to help former slaves during Reconstruction. 
ANSWER:  
Freedmen’s Bureau 
052-11-30-19116 
16. A gaseous upwelling phenomenon known as the \"mud lumps\" often takes place near a fishing village 
on an old barge called the Taj near the mouth of this river. The Coon Rapids dam is the limit of upriver 
navigation on this river and the only natural waterfall on this river was the now-dammed St. Anthony's 
Falls. A series of dams known as the Old River control structure prevents this river's course from switching 
to the Atchafalaya river, and it is crossed by bridges such as the Eads Bridge, the Rock Island Centennial 
Bridge and the Huey P. Long Bridge. For 10 points, identify this distributary of the Red, Ohio, and 
Missouri rivers, the longest river in the United States. 
ANSWER:  
Mississippi 
 River 
057-11-30-19117 
17. During a gubernatorial campaign, this man defeated Teddy Roosevelt, Jr., but his running mate’s loss 
left with him a Republican lieutenant governor. In one of this man’s speeches, he suggested it was folly to 
attack government entitlements by saying “Nobody shoots at Santa Claus.” This politician’s popular 
slogan was “Let’s look at the record.” This man crossed party lines to support Willkie and Landon instead 
of the Democratic candidate, who had described him as the “Happy Warrior.” Franklin Roosevelt 
succeeded him in his best known post. For 10 points, name this Governor of New York who lost the 1928 
presidential election to Herbert Hoover and was the first Catholic nominee for president. 
ANSWER: Alfred Emanuel  
Smith 
, Jr. 
052-11-30-19118 
18. These figures were the handmaidens to the young Persephone before she was abducted by Hades. These 
beings almost caused the death of Butes before he was saved by Aphrodite. They are sometimes considered 
the daughters of Achelous, and their names are given as Peisinoe, Aglaope, and Thelxiepeia. Orpheus’ lyre 
saved the Argonauts from them. In the  
Odyssey 
, they are encountered shortly before Scylla and Charybdis, 
and they inspire Odysseus to tie himself to the mast. For 10 points, name these half-bird women whose 
beautiful singing would lure sailors to their deaths. 
ANSWER:  
Sirens 
 [or  
Seirenes 
] 
080-11-30-19119 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  4 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. This thinker explained how the title eetings expanded his approach in his book  
Encounter Groups. 
 This 
psychologist used the term \"reflection\" to describe the practice of repeating a person's words in a different 
context and argued for the importance of \"congruence\" between a patient's \"ideal\" and \"real\" self. His essay 
\"This is Me\" begins his book about the \"actualizing tendency.\" This author of  
On Becoming a Person 
 cites 
\"empathic understanding\" and \"unconditional positive regard\" as two key tenets of his methodology. For 10 
points, name this psychologist who pioneered \"client-centered\" therapy. 
ANSWER: Carl  
Rogers 
109-11-30-19120 
20. This architect designed a synagogue called the K.A.M. Isaiah Israel Temple, which was later converted 
into the birthplace of gospel music, the Pilgrim Baptist Church. Roosevelt University is currently housed in 
a building this man designed that served as the first home of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. This 
architect of the Auditorium Building designed the Transportation Building, the largest structure of the 
White City at the Columbian Exposition. Frank Lloyd Wright spent five years in the firm this man owned 
with Dankmar Adler. For 10 points, name this Chicago architect who designed the Wainwright building 
and coined the phrase “form follows function.” 
ANSWER: Louis  
Sullivan 
015-11-30-19121 
21. One character in this play tells a story about a man named Patrick Sullivan calling him lucky. Another 
character says \"That's my line\" after A Distant Voice asks, \"Whence comest thou?\" in the Prologue to this 
play. A messenger says, \"I only am escaped alone to tell thee\" after telling the protagonist about the death 
of his son David in a pointless military accident. The ninth scene of this play sees the title character visited 
by Bildad, Eliphaz, and Zophar. The prologue to this play features a debate between circus vendors named 
Mr. Zuss and Nickles about the roles of God and Satan and the title character ultimately reconciles with his 
wife Sarah after losing his entire fortune. For 10 points, name this retelling of the Job story by Archibald 
MacLeish. 
ANSWER:  
J.B. 
095-11-30-19122 
22. A cynic philosopher was put to death after complaining to this emperor about one of this man’s chief 
ministers, Sextus Tigidius Perennis. This man added the title Britannicus to his name after one of his 
governors, Ulpius Marcellus, reestablished Roman control of the Antonine Wall. A chamberlain named 
Cleander was killed on the orders of Marcia, a mistress of this man who was involved in the plot that 
eventually assassinated him and replaced him with Pertinax. Late in his reign he renamed Rome after 
himself and assigned his twelve names to the months of the year; such names included Hercules, the 
mythological figure he fashioned himself to be. Known for personally fighting as a gladiator, for 10 points, 
name this son and successor of Marcus Aurelius. 
ANSWER: Lucius Aurelius  
Commodus 
 [or Lucius Aelius Aurelius  
Commodus 
 Augustus Herculeus 
Romanus Exsuperatorius Amazonius Invictus Felix Pius] 
094-11-30-19123 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  5 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
23. The structure of these proteins typically consists of a glycine rich N terminal near a lysine along with a 
central aspartic acid needed for the protein’s activity. Long term potentiation in the brain is believed to be 
enhanced in part by members of this group of proteins, one of which is mitogen activated and the other of 
which is regulated by calcium ions and calmodulin. The majority of these proteins act on the amino acids 
tyrosine, threonine, or serine, of which the latter two contain a hydroxyl group. Cyclins work by activating 
one member of this family of proteins. Another member of this family of proteins depends on the level of 
cyclic AMP, while in general this family of proteins works by transferring a certain functional found in 
ATP. For 10 points, name this class of enzymes that transfer a phosphate group. 
ANSWER: protein  
kinase 
s 
064-11-30-19124 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  6 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 19 
Bonuses 
1. This philosophy stresses five important relationships, included “ruler to ruled” and “husband to wife.” 
For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this influential Chinese system which advocates “ren,” “li,” and other values. 
ANSWER:  
Confucianism 
[10] This Chinese philosopher was known as the “second sage” for creating the orthodox version of 
Confucianism in a namesake book. 
ANSWER:  
Mencius 
[10] According to this Confucian principle, the first step in achieving social order was to ensure that each 
person and concept had a unique identifier, and that each person knew his place in relation to everything 
else. 
ANSWER: the  
Rectification of Names 
 [or  
Zhengming 
] 
015-11-30-19201 
2. This action was commemorated by the construction of the Alexander Nevsky Cathedral in Moscow, and 
was largely overseen by the adviser Nikolay Milyutin. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this liberal reform accomplished through an 1861 ukase. 
ANSWER:  
emancipation of the serfs 
 [accept equivalents] 
[10] The emancipation of the serfs was accomplished by this czar, who was assassinated by the People’s 
Will. 
ANSWER:  
Alexander II 
[10] Milyutin and Alexander also introduced this form of local government, in which boards composed of 
local citizens were given some powers of self government. 
ANSWER:  
zemstvo 
s [or  
zemstva 
] 
015-11-30-19202 
3. He paired the upbeat \"L'Allegro\" with the melancholy \"Il Penseroso.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author who set the fallen angel Satan as the antagonist of his epic  
Paradise Lost 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Milton 
[10] A condition affecting Milton caused him to write this sonnet, which concludes “They also serve who 
only stand and wait.” 
ANSWER: “ 
On His Blindness 
” [or \" 
When I Consider How My Light is Spent 
\"] 
[10] The speaker of this Milton poem is an \"uncouth Swain\" who claims he must \"pluck your berries harsh 
and crude\" in addressing the laurels and myrtles of the title figure. 
ANSWER: \" 
Lycidas 
\" 
015-11-30-19203 
4. One of these works is a snow shovel titled  
In advance of the broken arm 
, and another is a bottle rack 
titled  
Bottle Rack 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these unmodified or slightly modified pieces. 
ANSWER:  
readymades 
[10] The term readymade was coined by this artist, who dubbed a urinal  
Fountain 
 and painted  
Nude 
Descending a Staricase 
. 
ANSWER: Marcel  
Duchamp 
[10] After dedicating his life to chess for over twenty years, Duchamp returned to make this piece in which 
the viewer looks through a peephole to see a nude lying on some grass. 
ANSWER:  
Etant donnes 
015-11-30-19204 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  7 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. He is credited with protecting Isis during her pregnancy and healing the eye of Horus. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this ibis-headed god of writing in Egyptian mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Thoth 
[10] Thoth is sometimes listed as the consort of this goddess, often depicted carrying the sistrum, who was 
the dedicatee of large cemeteries full of mummified cats. 
ANSWER:  
Bast 
et 
[10] Thoth is often described as the “scribe” of this goddess, a daughter of Re and personification of truth 
and justice. 
ANSWER:  
Maat 
015-11-30-19205 
6. Name these brass instruments for 10 points each: 
[10] Tommy Dorsey and Glenn Miller primarily played this instrument. 
ANSWER:  
trombone 
[10] This simple brass instrument has no valves and is often used to play “Taps” and other military pieces. 
ANSWER:  
bugle 
[10] This German instrument has a wider bore than a trumpet or cornet and is often used in military music. 
ANSWER:  
flugelhorn 
015-11-30-19206 
7. This term can refer to unavoidable random fluctuation in signals, or to acoustic signals that mask the 
content of other, desirable acoustic signals. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give this term that most commonly refers to subjectively undesirable sounds, a \"white\" version of 
which contains all frequencies with random phase. 
ANSWER:  
noise 
[10] White noise has the property that, outside of time equals zero, its autocorrelation function is always 
equal to this value. 
ANSWER:  
zero 
[10] This type of colored noise has a power spectrum proportional to one over the frequency, and can be 
thus formed by filtering white noise with a low-pass filter with a rolloff of 3 dB per octave. 
ANSWER:  
pink 
 noise 
003-11-30-19207 
8. This process occurs when particles move randomly down a concentration gradient. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this spreading of a substance, such as a gas, from areas of high concentration to areas of lower 
concentration. 
ANSWER:  
diffusion 
[10] This law states that diffusive flux is equal to the diffusivity times the negative steepness of the 
gradient. 
ANSWER:  
Fick’s 
 First Law 
[10] For quickly flowing substances, this type of diffusion can occur, which is also sometimes known as 
eddy diffusion. 
ANSWER:  
turbulent 
 diffusion 
023-11-30-19208 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  8 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. The biography of this king, written by Asser, recounts his institution of a code of laws called the 
\"domboc.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this king of Wessex who fought off the Danes, the only English monarch styled “the Great.” 
ANSWER:  
Alfred 
 the Great 
[10] Less talented at fighting Danes was this later king, whose realms were invaded by Sweyn Forkbeard 
after he killed many Danes in the St. Brice’s Day Massacre. 
ANSWER:  
Ethelred the Unready 
 [or  
Ethelred II 
] 
[10] Alfred the Great signed the treaty of Wedmore with this Danish king after defeating him at the Battle 
of Edington. 
ANSWER:  
Guthrum 
015-11-30-19209 
10. In this play, Clara Hill becomes less snobbish and more critical after reading H. G. Wells. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this George Bernard Shaw play in which Henry Higgins takes a bet to transform the cockney 
Eliza Doolittle into a lady. 
ANSWER:  
Pygmalion 
[10] This other Shaw character eventually gains the admiration of her daughter Vivie despite her work in 
the prostitution industry. 
ANSWER: Mrs.  
Warren 
 [or  
Kitty 
 Warren] 
[10] Shaw popularized this other playwright by publishing an extended essay on his “quintessence.” His 
own plays include  
The League of Youth 
 and  
Love's Comedy 
. 
ANSWER: Henrik  
Ibsen 
015-11-30-19210 
11. Many heroes of Greek mythology had ironically unheroic deaths. For 10 points each: 
[10] Heracles died when this wife of his gave him the poisoned shirt of Nessus, believing the poison to be a 
love potion. 
ANSWER:  
Deianeira 
[10] Jason was killed by a rotting plank from this ship, which fell on him while he was sleeping. 
ANSWER: the  
Argo 
[10] Theseus is said to have died by being thrown off a cliff by Lycomedes, the king of this island, which 
was also home to Achilles’ son, Neoptolemus. 
ANSWER:  
Skyros 
024-11-30-19211 
12. Members of this superphylum are enterocoelous and undergo radial cleavage. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this superphylum of animals, which have their blastopores turn into anuses during their 
embryonic development. 
ANSWER:  
deuterostomia 
 [or  
deuterostome 
s] 
[10] This phylum of deuterostomes includes sea stars and sea cucumbers. 
ANSWER:  
echinodermata 
 [or  
echinoderm 
s] 
[10] These chordate deuterostomes of class Myxini are noted for producing enormous amounts of slime. 
ANSWER:  
hagfish 
088-11-30-19212 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  9 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
13. Under Admiral Yi Sun-sin, this territory’s navy employed turtle ships against Toyotomi Hideyoshi. For 
10 points each: 
[10] Name this region which is currently divided into two countries by the Demilitarized Zone. 
ANSWER:  
Korea 
n peninsula [or  
Han 
gook bando; or  
Choson 
 bando] 
[10] The turtle ships were employed by this Korean dynasty that lasted from 1392 to 1897. Its isolationism 
led it to be dubbed the “hermit kingdom” by some detractors. 
ANSWER:  
Joseon 
 [or  
Choson 
] 
[10] The Choson dynasty replaced this line, which itself came to power by toppling the Silla and holding 
off the Baekke in a war of the Three Kingdoms. 
ANSWER:  
Goryeo 
 [do not accept Goguryeo] 
015-11-30-19213 
14. This poet wrote \"Beauty is everlasting and dust is for time\" in her poem \"In Distrust of Merits.\" For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this poet of \"Steeple-Jack\" who asserted “I too, dislike it” in her poem “Poetry.” 
ANSWER: Marianne  
Moore 
[10] In “Poetry,” Moore quotes this author’s phrase “literalists of the imagination.” He incited patriotic 
fervor with his play  
Kathleen O’Houlihan 
 and wrote the poems “Lapis Lazuli” and “Sailing to 
Byzantium.” 
ANSWER: William Butler  
Yeats 
[10] Moore wrote a poem about this animal beginning, \"wade through black jade.\" Elizabeth Bishop also 
wrote a poem describing this creature whose \"brown skin hung in strips like ancient wall paper\" ending 
with the assertion \"everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!\" 
ANSWER: the  
fish 
015-11-30-19214 
15. Sergeant Nathan Marx is infuriated by Sheldon Grossbart’s attempts to get preferential treatment in a 
story from this collection titled “Defender of the Faith.” For 10 points each; 
[10] Name this short story collection containing “Eli the Fanatic” whose title story concerns Ohio State 
alum Neil Klugman’s unlikely romance with the rich Brenda Patimkin. 
ANSWER:  
Goodbye, Columbus 
[10] Goodbye Columbis is a short story collection by this Jewish author who wrote about Alexander’s 
conversations with Dr. Spielvogel in  
Portnoy’s Complaint 
. 
ANSWER: Philip  
Roth 
[10] In this story from the collection Ozzie Freedman threatens to jump off a rooftop unless his teacher 
Rabbi Binder admits that God is capable of creating the Immaculate Conception. 
ANSWER: “The  
Conversion of the Jews 
” 
109-11-30-19215 
16. This phenomenon leads to an equatorial bulge. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this motion of a star about its axis. 
ANSWER:  
rotation 
[10] The fast rotation of stars allows mixing of the core and outer layers, leading to the formation a 
radioactive isotope of this element, which emits neutrons that are capture by iron to form strontium and 
yttrium. This element is also created by fusing helium and oxygen in the alpha process. 
ANSWER:  
neon 
[10] This gravitational phenomena causes synchronous rotation so that a satellite always faces its planet in 
the same way. This is seen in Moon's rotation and orbit about the Earth. 
ANSWER:  
tidal locking 
066-11-30-19216 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  10 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. It was painted for the Monastery of St. Anthony, and its first view depicts Saint Anthony and Saint 
Sebastian flanking a crucifixion. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this German altarpiece which depicts scenes of Anthony’s meeting with the hermit Paul and the 
temptation of Anthony on its innermost view. 
ANSWER:  
Isenheim 
 Altarpiece 
[10] The Isenheim Altarpiece was painted by this German master, whose works were widely attributed to 
Durer until he rose from obscurity. 
ANSWER: Matthias  
Grunewald 
[10] The crucifixion scene includes an anachronistic depiction of this man. His head is often painted in 
depictions of Salome. 
ANSWER:  
John the Baptist 
015-11-30-19217 
18. He participated in Richard Montgomery’s Canada expedition, and, as a politician, he was a key player 
in transforming Tammany Hall from a social club into a political machine. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this third Vice President of the United States, who killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel. 
ANSWER: Aaron  
Burr 
[10] Burr had earlier been put on trial for conspiring with this general and governor of the Louisiana 
Territory to create an empire in the West. 
ANSWER: James  
Wilkinson 
[10] Burr was appointed Attorney General of New York by this governor, who served as Vice President 
under Jefferson and Madison. 
ANSWER:  eorge  
G Clinton 
 [prompt on  
Clinton 
] 
015-11-30-19218 
19. This man’s lieutenants were the Gauls Crixus and Oenomaus. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this gladiator who led the most successful slave rebellion in Roman history. 
ANSWER:  
Spartacus 
[10] The revolt of Spartacus was finally put down by this triumvir, who himself allegedly had molten gold 
poured down his throat after losing at Carrhae. 
ANSWER: Marcus Licinius  
Crassus 
[10] Spartacus hailed from this Balkan region which was to the east of the Black Sea and Sea of Marmara. 
It was a client state of Rome until Claudius annexed it in 46 CE amidst the chaos caused by the 
assassination of King Rhoemetalces. 
ANSWER:  
Thrace 
 [or  
Thracia 
] 
015-11-30-19219 
20. One symptom of this disorder may be the Jacksonian march, in which symptoms radiate from one point 
on the body. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this neurological disorder, whose main symptoms are seizures. 
ANSWER:  
epilepsy 
[10] Electrical stimulation of this nerve can be an effective treatment for epilepsy. This nerve is cranial 
nerve ten and is named for the Latin word for \"wandering.\" 
ANSWER:  
vagus 
 nerve 
[10] In some cases, epilepsy can be treated by cutting this bundle of fibers that connects the two 
hemispheres of the brain. 
ANSWER:  
corpus callosum 
081-11-30-19220 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  11 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
21. For 10 points each, answer these questions about medieval French literature. 
[10] The Battle of Roncevaux Pass is at the center of this work that details the courageous deeds of a knight 
of Charlemagne. 
ANSWER:  
The  Song of Roland 
 [or  
La  Chanson de Roland 
] 
[10] Guillaume de Lorris wrote the first part of this 13th century work that focused on courtly love and was 
based on an earlier work by Andreas Capellanus. 
ANSWER:  
The  Romance of the Rose 
 [or  
Roman de la Rose 
] 
[10] This French poet of the 12th century wrote about the husband of Laudine who defeats a dragon with 
the help of a lion in his work  
Yvain, the Knight of the Lion 
. 
ANSWER:  
Chretien 
 de Troyes 
064-11-30-19221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 19     Page  12 of 12 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
