VHSL States 2011 
Round 8 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. These events are stratified by risk in the Killip classification. Damage from these events are usually 
assessed using a Thallium-201 scan, and they are often diagnosed by noting an elevated CK-MB and 
troponin level. They are treated by catheterization followed by anti-platelet medications. They can be 
sorted by whether they cause an ST-segment elevation on an EKG, and they usually present after occlusion 
of a vessel, resulting in ischemia and chest pain that can radiate down the arm. Prevented by taking aspirin 
daily, for 10 points, name these medical events that result from death of heart tissue, also known as 
myocardial infarctions. 
ANSWER:  
heart attack 
s [or  
myocardial infarction 
 before mentioned; or  
MI 
 before \"myocardial 
infarction is read\"] 
048-11-25-08101 
2. The case of  
Winters v. United States 
 prevented utility companies from using water intended for these 
entities. The largest one of these is partially in Arizona, Utah and New Mexico and has its capital at 
Window Rock. Ten students died in a school shooting in the Red Lake massacre that occurred on one of 
these in Minnesota. Many of these places were decimated by the individual ownership allowed under the 
Dawes General Allotment Act of 1887. For 10 points, name these sites in which jurisdiction is split 
between state, federal, and tribal authorities. 
ANSWER: Indian  
reservation 
s 
015-11-25-08102 
3. One principle important to understanding this phenomenon is used by radio engineers to find the ratio 
between metal and slot impedances. Electrons passing through a nickel crystal undergo this effect, as 
discovered by Davisson and Germer. Babinet showed the equivalence of two versions of this phenomenon, 
and one version of it is described by a formula with a constant of 1.22. Fresnel and Fraunhofer name the 
near and far-field versions of this phenomenon, which is also described in terms of wavefronts by Huygens 
principle. It produces an Airy disk when occurring in a small hole. This behavior also occurs in a 
double-slit setup. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which light bends as it passes through an 
opening or around an object. 
ANSWER:  
Diffraction 
048-11-25-08103 
4. This politician gained one nickname while serving as Minister of Education under Edward Heath by 
ending a program that provided free milk for school children over seven years old. This leader of the 
\"Dries\" succeeded James Callaghan after an election that followed the strikes of the \"Winter of 
Discontent.\" This prime minister’s country was brought into a conflict after forces under Leopoldo Galtieri 
invaded the Falklands. For 10 points, name this Conservative British leader of the 1980s whose staunch 
anticommunist stance earned her the nickname \"Iron Lady.\" 
ANSWER: Margaret Hilda  
Thatcher 
 [or Margaret Hilda  
Roberts 
] 
023-11-25-08104 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This organization received proceeds from drug-running at Lintin Island until a crackdown under Lin 
Zexu sparked a war. This company exacerbated an event by using farmland to cultivate opium, causing the 
Great Bengal Famine. Several officials of this organization were in the Black Hole of Calcutta after one of 
its leaders won the Battle of Plassey. Initially the rival of a similar company called the VOC, this 
organization ceded control of its namesake region to Victoria in 1858. For 10 points, name this English 
trading company that dealt in opium and tea in China and India. 
ANSWER:  
British East India 
 Company [or  
John Company 
; or  
Company Bahadur 
; accept words like 
\"trading\" added in; prompt on  
East India Company 
] 
020-11-25-08105 
6. This poet wrote “I wish that I might be a thinking stone” in a poem that opens by addressing “Mother of 
heaven, regina of the clouds.” He discusses a figure who “beholds nothing that is not there and the nothing 
that is” after noting “one must have a mind of winter” in another poem. This author of “Le Monocle de 
Mon Oncle” and “The Snow Man” wrote about a bird that was “the only moving thing” among “twenty 
snowy mountains.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird” 
who wrote “Call the roller of big cigars” in “The Emperor of Ice Cream.” 
ANSWER: Wallace  
Stevens 
015-11-25-08106 
7. One of this man’s sculptures is incomplete in such a way that its head appears to be sealed in marble, 
leading to its nickname of  
Blockhead Slave 
. Another of his sculptures depicts a man with bulging veins and 
a furious gaze running his fingers through his long beard. That work, based on a mistranslation of the Old 
Testament Hebrew, depicts Moses with horns and was made for the tomb of Pope Julius II. For 10 points, 
name this Renaissance Italian sculptor, who also depicted Mary cradling the dead Jesus in his  
Pietá 
. 
ANSWER:  
Michelangelo 
 Buenarroti [or Michelangelo  
Buenarroti 
] 
080-11-25-08107 
8. One agent used in this field causes a form of hepatitis resulting from the production of triflouroacetic 
acid, and one of the pioneers of this field impressed John Collins Warren with a demonstration, who stated 
that “this is no humbug”; that was William Thomas Green Morton. Isoflorane, sevoflourane, and 
desflourane has replaced several compounds in this field, whose name was coined by Oliver Wendell 
Holmes Senior. Peter Murphy, a member of this profession, developed endotracheal intubation in the 
1960s, and the first practitioners of this field used diethyl ether or nitrous oxide. For 10 points, name this 
field of medicine, which is concerned with knocking people out for surgery. 
ANSWER:  
anesthesia 
 [or  
anesthesiology 
] 
048-11-25-08108 
9. The death of the fifth of these figures was kept secret for fifteen years to allow for the construction of 
their official home, the Potala Palace. These figures are discovered by monks who are dispatched to see if 
children can recognize the objects of their predecessor. They are considered to be manifestations of the 
bodhisattva Avalokitesvara (AV-ah-loh-kit-ehs-VAH-ra). The fourteenth and current one is known as 
Tenzin Gyatso and was exiled from Lhassa to India. For 10 points, name this spiritual leaders of Tibetan 
Buddhism. 
ANSWER:  
Dalai Lama 
s 
015-11-25-08109 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. This song inspired one band member to worry that it was \"too dance\" because the drums \"didn't go 
boom-boom bap, boom-boom bap.\" When it was released as a single, the cover art depicted a hand holding 
a frame in front of a scene featuring a girl in a dress in a field. This song mentions roads that are winding, 
lights that are blinding, and it begins \"today is gonna be the day that they're gonna throw it back to you.\" 
This song's title follows the words \"and after all, you're my.\" For 10 points, name this song off of  
(What's 
the Story) Morning Glory 
, a big hit for Oasis. 
ANSWER: \" 
Wonderwall 
\" 
026-11-25-08110 
11. One description of the court of this leader is a  
History 
 written in Greek by Priscus of Panium. A policy 
of appeasement was unsuccessfully used by Theodosius II to try and stop this ruler from invading his 
empire. This man fought a battle against forces under Theodoric I and Aetius on the Catalaunian Plains. 
This loser of the Battle of Chalons became sole ruler of his people after he arranged the murder of his 
brother Bleda. For 10 points, name this ruler who gained the title \"Scourge of God\" for his invasions into 
the Roman Empire while leader of the Huns. 
ANSWER:  
Attila 
 the Hun 
023-11-25-08111 
12. Deborah Jin used atoms of this element to create the first true fermionic condensate. Its citrate is used to 
control kidney stones, and the main electrolyte imbalance in people with kidney failure is an 
overabundance of this element. Its permanganate is a common oxidizing agent, and its beta-decay into 
argon makes it useful in radiometric dating. It’s the primary ion found inside cells, and it’s exchanged with 
sodium across neuron membranes. Its nitrate is found in fertilizers and saltpeter. For 10 points, name this 
element found heavily in bananas, with atomic number 19 and symbol K 
ANSWER:  
Potassium 
048-11-25-08112 
13. During one mission of this name, cube-shaped CM canisters were adapted to fit round LM sockets 
using a device called the \"mailbox.\" One mission of this name killed Edward White, Gus Grissom, and 
Roger Chaffee when it caught on fire. Jack Swigert, Fred Haise, and James Lovell were on another mission 
of this name when Oxygen Tank Number Two exploded, necessitating a trip around the dark side of the 
moon. For 10 points, name this series of missions, the eleventh of which landed Neil Armstrong on the 
moon. 
ANSWER:  
Apollo 
026-11-25-08113 
14. In a work by this man titled for a line from  
Twelfth Night 
, the narrator is asked to write a biography of a 
deceased author based on the late Thomas Hardy. The narrator of a novel by this man is introduced to the 
painter Charles Strickland, who leaves his wife and Paris to go to Tahiti. That novel based on the life of 
Paul Gauguin is  
The Moon and Sixpence 
, and a semi-autobiographical novel by this author details the life 
of the clubfooted Philip Carey. For 10 points, name this British novelist, the author of  
Of Human Bondage 
. 
ANSWER: William Somerset  
Maugham 
002-11-25-08114 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. One character created by this author is a member of the volunteer fire department who accepts 
fifty-seven children as his heirs and gives away lots of money to the denizens of his Indiana town. Another 
of his characters nicknames his son Leon Trotsky, has his finger bitten off by Dwayne Hoover, and authors  
Venus on the Half-Shell 
. A third character created by this author meets Montana Wildhack on Tralfamadore 
after becoming unstuck in time. For 10 points, name this creator of Eliot Rosewater, Kilgore Trout, and 
Billy Pilgrim, the author of  
Slaughterhouse-Five 
. 
ANSWER: Kurt  
Vonnegut 
 Jr. 
015-11-25-08115 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 8 
Directed Round 
1A.    equals negative     according to which physical law, named for a British scientist, that deals with the 
F k x 
displacement of springs? 
ANSWER:  
Hooke's Law 
1B.  What field of mathematics, generally taken around the same time as multivariable calculus, studies 
vector spaces and matrices? 
ANSWER:  
linear algebra 
2A.  What pre-Socratic was known as the “Weeping Philosopher” and noted that it is impossible to step 
into the same river twice? 
ANSWER:  
Heraclitus 
2B.  What college basketball team led by freshman Jared Sullinger had an undefeated 2011 season broken 
by a February 12 loss at Wisconsin? 
ANSWER:  
Ohio State 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. How much wood could a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck 
could chuck six logs a minute for two hours? 
ANSWER:  
720 
 logs 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the median of the following set: {1, 6, -1, 5, 10, 2, -9, 
-3, 8}? 
ANSWER:  
2 
4A.  What French Post-Impressionist painted  
Mont Saint-Victoire The Bathers Woman in a Green Hat 
,  ,  , 
and lots of still lifes? 
ANSWER: Paul  
Cézanne 
4B.  What Austrian economist warned that central planning inevitably leads to tyranny in  
The Road to 
Serfdom 
? 
ANSWER: Friedrich von  
Hayek 
5A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the equation of the line 
perpendicular to y = 7 - 1/3 x that passes through the point (2,1). 
ANSWER:  
y = 3 x - 5 
5B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the measure of the largest angle in 
a triangle if it is five times that of the smallest angle and the third angle measures 48 degrees? 
ANSWER:  
110 
 degrees 
6A.  Current president Mohamed Nasheed was elected on a platform of attempting to relocate this country's 
entire population, as rising sea levels threaten the 1200 islands which comprise it. Identify this archipelago 
found to the southwest of India and Sri Lanka in the Indian Ocean. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Maldives 
 [or  
Dhivehi Raajje 
yge Jumhooriyyaa] 
6B.  The Vickers test gives a value for what quality with rebound, indentation, and scratch varieties, the last 
of which is measured using the Mohs scale? 
ANSWER:  
hardness 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. You pay $1 to guess the number on two straight rolls of a fair 
20-sided die, and win $100 for correctly guessing both rolls. How much money do you expect to lose per 
try, rounded to the nearest cent? 
ANSWER:  
$0.75 
 [or  
75 cents 
] 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Find all values on the interval -pi to pi, inclusive, such that 
cosine of 2x equals cosine of x. 
ANSWER: x =  ,  
0 2pi/3 
, and  
-2pi/3 
 [do not accept or prompt on any answer that does not contain all three 
numbers] 
8A.  Name the type of algorithm used to order lists that has such varieties as insertion, selection, bubble, 
and quick. 
ANSWER:  
sort 
ing algorithm 
8B.  What composer wrote incidental music to  
The Tempest 
 as well as works inspired by his homeland like  
The Karelia Suite 
 and  
Finlandia 
? 
ANSWER: Jean  
Sibelius 
9A.  What guide to writing by William Strunk and E. B. White states, \"When a sentence is made stronger, 
it usually becomes shorter\"? 
ANSWER:  
The  Elements of Style 
9B.  Name the group of unemployed who represented the Commonweal of Christ when they marched in 
protest from Massillon, Ohio, to Washington, D.C., in 1894. 
ANSWER:  
Coxey’s Army 
10A.  What quantity is raised to the fourth power in the Stefan-Boltzmann equation, and requires 4.18 
joules to be changed by one unit for a gram of water? 
ANSWER:  
temperature 
10B.  What French author helped usher in Romanticism with poetry collections like  
Les Contemplations 
before writing the novel  
Les Miserables 
? 
ANSWER: Victor-Marie  
Hugo 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 8 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The initiative for this event came from Robert McFarlane, who acted in an effort to gain the freedom of 
hostages in Lebanon. The actions taken in this event were made illegal by the Boland Amendment and 
were investigated by members of the Tower Commission. This scandal led to the indictment of National 
Security Council members John Poindexter and Oliver North, as well as Secretary of Defense Caspar 
Weinberger. For 10 points, name this affair that came to light during the Reagan presidency, which 
involved the sales of arms to a Middle Eastern country being used to fund a group in Nicaragua. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Contra 
 affair 
023-11-25-08117 
2. This decision overruled  
Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce 
 and parts of a case in which Mitch 
McConnell was one party. This decision extended the concept of \"corporate personhood\" to apply to First 
Amendment protection. It ruled portions of a bill co-sponsored by Russ Feingold and John McCain 
unconstitutional and that  
Hillary: The Movie 
 should have been able to be shown within thirty days of the 
2010 election. For 10 points, name this 2010 Supreme Court decision that struck down parts of the 
Bipartisan Campaign Finance Reform Act. 
ANSWER:  
Citizens United  v. Federal Election Commission 
 [prompt on  
Federal Election Commission 
] 
026-11-25-08118 
3. One resident of this city likes to wear Oriental clothes in the morning and vacillates over whether or not 
to kill his father with a bomb made by his friends. The narrator of one story sees a painter murdered in a 
brothel and a lieutenant beaten for adultery on its central street, Nevsky Prospect. This title locale of an 
Andrey Bely novel is the home of the relentless detective Porfiry, who investigates the murder of the 
pawnbroker Alyona Ivanovna. For 10 points, name this site of Raskolnikov’s fevered wanderings in 
Dostoyevsky’s  
Crime and Punishment 
. 
ANSWER: St.  
Petersburg 
015-11-25-08119 
4. One long poem by this author begins \"This is the forest primeval\" and tells a tale set in the Great 
Upheaval of the Acadians. This creator of Gabriel Lajeunesse wrote a sonnet in which the seasosn are 
\"changeless since the day she died,\" inspired by the death of his wife in a fireplace accident. He used the 
meter of the Finnish  
Kalevala 
 to write a poem based on the fieldwork of Henry Rowe Schoolcraft. In that 
poem by this author, the title character loves Minnehaha. For 10 points, name this American poet who 
wrote  
Evangeline 
 and  
The Song of Hiawatha 
. 
ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth  
Longfellow 
026-11-25-08120 
5. One political cartoon that protested this act featured a snapping turtle grabbing onto a man's trousers 
while another man bemoans how the turtle \"nicks 'em.\" The purpose of this act was seen as \"entirely 
groundless\" by the Secretary of the Treasury, Albert Gallatin. This act was created as a response to the 
Orders in Council and Continental System of two foreign nations. It was replaced two years later by the 
Non-Intercourse Act. For 10 points, name this 1807 act signed by Thomas Jefferson that responded to 
Britain and France by disallowing trade with any foreign countries. 
ANSWER:  
Embargo 
 Act 
023-11-25-08121 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
6. One character in this play remembers entertaining strangers at a hotel called the Tarantula Arms. One of 
its plot points centers on the loss of the family estate of Belle Reve. One of its characters is called a 
“survivor of the Stone Age” after throwing a radio out a window when it interrupts his poker game with 
Mitch. A central character of this play declares “I have always depended on the kindness of strangers” after 
moving to the Elysian Fields with Stella and Stanley Kowalski. For 10 points, name this Tennessee 
Williams play about Blanche Dubois. 
ANSWER:  
A  Streetcar Named Desire 
015-11-25-08122 
7. This country’s Mount Yashkur is site of a mosque surrounded by courtyards called “ziyadas” and which 
is named for Ahmad Ibn Tulun. Its lush Philae Island contains a popular temple complex and is sometimes 
called its “pearl.” Its Saint Catherine’s Monastery is built into the side of its most famous mountain, and 
this country has temple complexes at Karnak and Luxor. This location of Mount Sinai has seen changes to 
its physical geography with the construction of the Aswan High Dam. For 10 points, name this 
middle-eastern country with capital at Cairo. 
ANSWER:  
Egypt 
015-11-25-08123 
8. One character in this film reveals that his wife Nola left him after he started calling himself Burroughs 
and bought a restaurant called The Green Frog. That character mocks another for bragging about drinking 
water out of a horse track. In this film, Barry Pepper plays “Lucky” Ned Pepper, who works with the Josh 
Brolin played villain Tom Chaney. In this movie, Mattie Ross hires the Jeff Bridges played U.S. Marshall 
“Rooster” Cogburn to avenge her father’s death. For 10 points, name this 2010 Coen brothers remake of a 
John Wayne western. 
ANSWER:  
True Grit 
015-11-25-08124 
9. One section of this organ contains Clara cells. One tumor of this organ comes from neuroendocrine cells 
named for Feyrter and has an oat-cell appearance, while adenocarcinomas of this organ stain positive with 
TTF-1. Release of vasoactive mediators in this organ results in ARDS, and this organ is also the site of 
silicosis, berylliosis, and ferruginous bodies resulting from asbestos exposure. Cancers of this organ are 
divided into small-cell and non-small-cell varieties, and in humans one half of this organ has three lobes 
while the other has two. Spirometry is used to measure functional capacity in this organ, which turns black 
in people exposed to coal dust. For 10 points, name this organ which contains alveoli and is damaged by 
smoking, used to exchange air. 
ANSWER:  
lungs 
048-11-25-08125 
10. Hymenaios was the Greek god of these events. The death of the fifty sons of Aegyptus occurred on the 
day of one of these events. The Lapiths drove the Centaurs from Mount Pelion to Aethicia after a great 
battle at one of these events. At Loki’s suggestion, Thor pretends to participate in one of these events to 
retrieve Mjollnir from Thrym. Another of these events is marred when an uninvited Eris throws the Apple 
of Discord, prompting the Judgment of Paris and the Trojan War. For 10 points, name these events which 
occur between Thetis and Peleus and other couples. 
ANSWER:  
wedding 
s 
015-11-25-08126 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. In one poem by this writer, a speaker tells the title figure that \"ten bucks\" is \"more'n I'll pay you till you 
fix this house up new.\" That piece by this poet is \"The Ballad of the Landlord.\" This poet wrote \"tomorrow, 
I'll be at the table when company comes\" in \"I, Too, Sing America.\" Another poem by this man mentions 
how the speaker heard a man \"down on Lenox Avenue the other night ... droning a drowsy syncopated 
tune.\" For 10 points, name this African-American poet of such poems as \"Theme for English B,\" \"Harlem,\" 
and \"The Weary Blues.\" 
ANSWER: James Mercer Langston  
Hughes 
023-11-25-08127 
12. Brushfield spots are more common in sufferers of this disease, many of whom also suffer from 
duodenal atresia. About 20% of people with it also suffer from transient leukemia, and they have a higher 
incidence of ALL and AML. The mechanism of this disease may partially be due to overexpression of 
miR-155 and miR-802 resulting in decreased MeCP2 expression and dysregulation of NFAT. The 
increased development of Alzheimer’s in people with this disease is due to overexpression of APP and 
SOD1. This condition can result from a Robertsonian translocation involving chromosome 14, and 
sufferers have a small chin, large tongue, an extra fold in the eyelid, and an IQ in the 50s. For 10 points, 
name this genetic condition characterized by an extra chromosome 21. 
ANSWER:  
Down 
 syndrome [or  
Trisomy 21 
 before \"21\" is read] 
048-11-25-08128 
13. In the Berlin and Kay model, this is the seventh color term that emerges in an evolving language, 
immediately after \"blue.\" In Czech, objects of this color are described as \"hnedy\" and in Mandarin, this 
English word is \"bulang.\" It is \"khoom\" in Hebrew and \"ghahve ee\" in Persian. In French, this English 
word is \"chatain\" when describing hair but \"marron\" in most other situations. In English, this color can 
refer to certain \"shirts\" worn by Nazis or to astronomical objects intermediate in size between planets and 
stars. For 10 points, identify this color that sugar acquires when mixed with molasses. 
ANSWER:  
brown 
019-11-25-08129 
14. This novel includes a search for the iyi uwa, a sacred stone that links the ogbanje Ezinma with the spirit 
world. In this novel, the District Commissioner wrote a study of the Igbo people entitled \"The Pacification 
of the Primitive Tribes of the Lower Niger.\" The protagonist's son Nwoye is converted to Christianity in 
this novel, which describes the colonization of Umuofia. For 10 points, name this novel in which Okonkwo 
hangs himself, a work by Chinua Achebe. 
ANSWER:  
Things Fall Apart 
030-11-25-08130 
15. The Dess-Martin reagent contains this element attached to oxygen groups. This element forms the 
central atom of the acid used alongside the Schiff reagent in the PAS stain, and in another procedure this 
element is used as a mordant and followed up by a safranin counterstain. This element is also used to test 
for starch in solution, and deficiencies result in goiters. For 10 points, name this element, a heavy halogen 
whose solutions are usually purple, with atomic number 53 and symbol I. 
ANSWER:  
iodine 
048-11-25-08131 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL States 2011 
Round 8 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This country is the site of a gigantic puppy crafted from flowers by Jeff Koons. A museum in this 
country is the permanent home of  
The Garden of Earthly Delights 
 and  
Las Meninas 
. A composer from this 
country wrote the ballet  
Love the Magician 
 and the nocturne  
Nights in the Garden of Spain 
. This country is 
home to the Parc Guell and the Church of the Holy Family, the masterpieces of Antoni Gaudi. For 10 
points, name this location of the Prado Museum and the Guggenheim Bilbao. 
ANSWER:  
Spain 
015-11-25-08132 
2. One character in this story resembles the story's speaker when he is asked to heave a door off its hinges. 
Another character in this story visits the blacksmith Jarvis, where he borrows from him a coulter. That 
character is described as being \"some deal squeamish of farting\" and is named Absalom. The student 
Nicholas tricks the carpenter John into thinking there is a great flood coming, which is part of his ploy to 
get in bed with Alison. For 10 points, name this story followed by \"The Reeve's Tale,\" a ribald section of 
Geoffrey Chaucer's  
The Canterbury Tales 
. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Miller's 
 Tale\" 
023-11-25-08133 
3. One reaction used to produce these compounds has a modification that uses Bestmann’s reagent, and 
which classically uses dimethyl diazomethyl phosphonate, named for Seyferth and Gilbert, while more 
common methods include the Corey-Fuchs reaction. Terminal ones have a pKA around 25, and this 
functional group is hydrogenated by sodium metal in liquid ammonia into trans-alkenes. This functional 
group has a bond angle of 180 degrees because the carbons involved in it are sp-hybridized. For 10 points, 
name this functional group which has a carbon-carbon triple bond. 
ANSWER:  
alkynes 
048-11-25-08134 
4. This man argued against excess thrift as destroying the motive to produce in a book that shared a title 
with a David Ricardo work,  
Principles of Political Economy 
. This man's 1796 pamphlet \"The Crisis\" 
supported the Poor Laws, though he later argued that they limited the mobility of labor, and this man 
encouraged workhouses in which \"fare should be hard.\" In this man's most famous work, he argued that 
vice, misery, and self-control could regulate the phenomenon that he believed prevented the future 
improvement of society. For 10 points, name this English economist who postulated that population growth 
will always tend to outrun the food supply and wrote  
An Essay on the Principle of Population 
. 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Malthus 
030-11-25-08135 
5. The Lion Mound marks the site of this battle, which was fought two days after an engagement at Ligny. 
This battle probably began with an engagement at Hougoumont. The losing forces in this battle fell apart 
after the capture of Placenoit. Gebhard von Blucher was one victorious commander at this battle, which 
ended the Hundred Days and resulted in its loser's exile to Saint Helena. For 10 points, name this victory 
for the Duke of Wellington, an 1815 battle in Belgium that saw the final downfall for Napoleon Bonaparte. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Waterloo 
026-11-25-08136 
This is a calculation question. In simplest terms, what is the square of quantity 3 x  + 50 end quantity? 
2 
ANSWER:  
9 x  + 300 x  + 2500 
4 2 
026-11-25-08137 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
Name the author of  
The Sot-Weed Factor 
 and  
The Floating Opera 
. 
ANSWER: John Simmons  
Barth 
026-11-25-08137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2011     Round 8     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
