NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 TOSSUPS  
1. One method of creating these molecules involves culturing in an IL-6 rich medium or injecting  
into the peritoneal cavity of a mouse and collecting the ascites. The classical method of creating  
these molecules was developed by Cesar Milstein, and involves growing cells deficient in  
HGPRT in a medium containing hypoxanthine, thymidine, and aminopterin. Examples of these  
molecules used therapeutically include adalimumab, which inhibits TNF-alpha, and  
Trastuzumab, or Herceptin, used to treat breast cancer. These proteins are created by fusing a  
single plasma cell with a mouse myeloma cell, creating a hybridoma that secretes only one  
heavy-light chain pair. For 10 points, name these pharmaceuticals that consist of an antibody  
targeting a single epitope.  
ANSWER:  monoclonal  antibodies  
2. In a post-Classical story, the Cypriot youth Cymon falls in love with this sleeping woman. The  
story of this woman, which begins with the unwise slaughter of a pregnant hare, includes her  
theft of a  xoanon,  or carved cult image, when she is in the land of King Thoas. This character is  
taken away under the pretense that she will be wedded to Achilles. Later in life, she becomes a  
priestess of Artemis, who had replaced her with a deer at the instant of her death. Calchas  
declares that this woman's sacrifice is needed to allow the Greek fleet to sail to Troy, so her  
father Agamemmnon seizes her. For 10 points, name this woman who, according to Euripides,  
goes to Tauris after fleeing Aulis.  
ANSWER:  Iphigenia   
3. Harris names a \"sheet\" of this quantity that serves as a common solution to the Maxwell- 
Vlasov equation, and one of these is run through a plasma in a z-pinch apparatus. Dividing this  
quantity by area gives a quantity whose four-gradient is set equal to zero in a common continuity  
equation in special relativity. The energy stored in an inductor is proportional to the square of  
this quantity. This quantity multiplies the cross product of a length infinitesimal with the  
displacement vector in the integrand of the Biot-Savart law. Devices used to measure this  
quantity are placed in series and have negligible internal resistance. Multiplying this quantity by  
V gives power. For 10 points, name this quantity equal to the amount of charge flowing in a wire  
at any given time.  
ANSWER:  current   
4. This play begins in a chamber furnished only by a scarlet throne where a woman explains that  
the workers have run away to the hills. The protagonist of this play shoots at the shapeless beings  
called \"Little Formless Fears\" that he encounters in the forest and then imagines being auctioned  
off as a slave and transported on a slave ship while a tom-tom beats ever faster and louder in the  
background. The title character of this play avoids being sacrificed to a crocodile towards the  
end, and he originally runs away from his palace when he learns of Lem’s rebellion from the  
white trader Smithers. For 10 points, name this Eugene O’Neill play in which a former Pullman  
Porter, Brutus, is finally killed by a silver bullet.  
ANSWER:  The  Emperor Jones 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 TOSSUPS  
5. This condition holds for a score above 5 on the Altman Self-Rating scale, while eleven  
questions scored from 0 to 4 are used to diagnose it on Young's scale. Hyperthymia may be  
misdiagnosed as a mild form of it. According to DSM-IV, mixed episodes may be characterized  
by the \"dysphoric\" type of this condition. Whether or not the unipolar form of this condition  
exists is still debated. The so-called \"flight of ideas,\" or pressured speech, is common in people  
experiencing this condition. Diagnosis of bipolar disorder I usually requires at least one instance  
of this condition. In bipolar patients, it alternates with depression. For 10 points, name this  
behavior of extremely elevated activity and mood.  
ANSWER:  mania  [or  manic  activity; or word forms; prompt on  bipolar  disorder before it is  
read]  
6. One of this choreographer's ballets uses Respighi's  Ancient Airs and Dances  to adapt a  
Boccaccio story to the stage. An actor delivers a spoken-word Indictment in a ballet by this  
choreographer that includes the numbers \"Church Social\" and \"Cotillion,\" and whose protagonist  
is simply called \"The Accused.\" This choreographer transcribed \"I Ride an Old Paint\" for a ballet  
that was the first to incorporate a tap dance. This woman worked with Morton Gould on that  
ballet about an axe-murderess. For 10 points, name this choreographer, the niece of director  
Cecil, who told the story of Lizzie Borden in  Fall River Legend  and worked with Aaron Copland  
on  Rodeo.   
ANSWER: Agnes  de Mille  [or Agnes George  de Mille ]  
7. The distribution of ratios of numbers selected from a normal distribution is named after this  
mathematician. If a prime p divides the order of a group, then according to a theorem due to him,  
that group has an element of order p. A formula due to this mathematician gives the value of a  
holomorphic function at each point inside a circle in terms of the values of the function on the  
circle. If two paths have the same initial and terminal paths, then the integral over them for a  
holomorphic function in that region is equal for the two paths according to an \"integral theorem\"  
due to him. This man was the first to discover an inequality stating that two vectors's dot product  
is less than the product of their magnitudes. For 10 points, identify this French mathematician  
who names a notable inequality with Hermann Schwarz.  
ANSWER: Augustin-Louis  Cauchy   
8. Both husbands of the noblewoman Marina Mniszech had this name; the latter of those two  
men began gathering followers at Starodub, and got decapitated at Kaluga. A deacon named  
Sidorka took this name to try to get Sweden to intervene in his own country. After death, a man  
of this name who ruled for ten months had his ashes shot towards Poland out of a cannon by  
supporters of Vasily Shuisky. A boy christened with this name was banished to Uglich, where he  
was stabbed in the throat at age eight, during the reign of Boris Godunov. For 10 points, give this  
name of a murdered son of Ivan the Terrible, whose name was claimed by three pretenders to the  
Russian throne during the Time of Troubles falsely.  
ANSWER: Tsarevich  Dmitri  Ivanovich [or Pseudo- Demetri us; accept \"false Dmitri_s\"] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 TOSSUPS  
9. Pakistani immigrant Shehzad Luqman was stabbed to death in this city's Petralona  
neighborhood. Santiago Calatrava designed a white Velodrome and a stadium with a retractable  
glass roof for an Olympic Games hosted in this city. This city contains many traditional  
restaurants in its old Plaka neighborhood. In this city, journalists on the upper floors of the Hotel  
Grande Bretagne are able to take pictures of protests in Syntagma square. Accessed via  
Venizelos airport to the east, its older landmarks include the octagonal Tower of the Winds and  
the Keramikos district. For 10 points, name this capital city which recently built a new museum  
in hopes of housing the Elgin Marbles near the Acropolis.  
ANSWER:  Athens  [or  Athina ]  
10. The opening Moderato of a G major piece of this type by this composer includes a series of  
fast Scotch snaps. Another of these pieces takes its nickname from the bariolage passages in its  
fourth movement. Two-bar statements of the main theme at the very end of one in E-flat major  
are constantly interrupted by rests. Apart from the \"Apponyi\" and \"Tost\" sets, bunches of these  
pieces were published six to an opus. One of them incorporates the melody \"Gott erhalte Franz  
den Kaiser,\" which was later reworked into the \"Deutschlandlied.\" The \"Russian\" ones include  
one nicknamed \"the Joke,\" and the Opus 20 ones are nicknamed the \"Sun.\" For 10 points, name  
these chamber pieces, such as the \"Emperor,\" by an Austrian said to be the father of their form.  
ANSWER: Franz Joseph  Haydn string quartet 's  s [or  string quartet s by  Haydn ; prompt on  
partial answer]  
11. This book describes the loss of the \"faithful martyr\" Antipas, said to have been killed in a  
city \"where Satan dwells.\" The author of this book chides a community for forsaking their first  
love, another for following an immoral prophetess, and still another for being lukewarm, warning  
that God will spit them out of His mouth. It begins with brief messages to seven churches in  
Asia, such as Ephesus and Philadelphia. In this book, creatures called locusts have human faces  
with lion's teeth. Near the end of this book, the author describes the \"Beast of the Earth\" and the  
\"Beast of the Sea,\" and the opening of the seventh seal. For 10 points, name this final book of the  
New Testament which contains numerous prophecies about the end of the world.  
ANSWER: Book of  Revelation  [or the  Apocalypse ; do not accept \"Revelations\"]  
12. In a speech adapted from one by J. Wallace Hamilton, this man noted that Alfred Adler  
identified the \"quest for recognition\" as the basic human impulse, an impulse he termed the  
\"Drum Major Instinct.\" He noted that when \"profit motives...are considered more important than  
people, the giant triplets of racism, militarism and economic exploitation are incapable of being  
conquered\" in a speech explaining \"Why I Am Opposed to the War in Vietnam.\" In his last  
speech, he claimed to have \"seen the promised land\" and \"been to the mountaintop.\" He noted  
that \"injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere\" in a \"Letter from Birmingham Jail.\"  
For 10 points, name this orator who envisioned a day when his \"four children will not be judged  
by the color of their skin but by the content of their character\" in his \"I Have a Dream\" Speech.  
ANSWER: Dr. Martin Luther  King , Jr. 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 TOSSUPS  
13. This artist painted a crayfish and a lion next to a sickle-wielding goddess in  Ceres,  the only  
surviving painting of his series on the four seasons. In another of his paintings, a man wearing  
baggy pants and an ill-fitting white shirt stands in front of a doctor on his donkey. This user of  
the \"three chalks\" technique painted a group of aristocrats putting away a portrait of Louis XIV  
on the left side of a canvas intended as an advertisement for his friend's boutique. Pairs of lovers  
prepare to leave the angel-infested isle sacred to Cupid in a painting by this artist depicting a  
fete-galante. For 10 points, name this Rococo painter of many commedia dell'arte characters, as  
well as of  Gersaint's Shop Sign  and  Embarkation for Cythera.  
ANSWER: Jean-Antoine  Watteau   
14.  In this city, a book about special stones called the  Lapidario  was produced by a noted 12th-  
and 13th-century school of translators. This European city is the birthplace of a soldier-poet who  
popularized the Italian sonnet, named Garcilaso de la Vega. The third council in this city  
confirmed Reccared's decision to convert from Arianism to Catholicism. As a  taifa , this one-time  
capital of the Visigoths was captured by Alfonso X. Much like Damascus, it kept a secret  
formula for strong ancient-world steel, making it a center for swordsmiths. For 10 points, name  
this city near the dead center of Spain, the pre-Madrid capital of Spain and adoptive home of El  
Greco.  
ANSWER:  Toledo   
15. An iconic character in this language's literature says \"Humbly report, sir\" to start almost  
every sentence, and gets pushed to a recruiting station in a wheelchair after making money  
selling dogs. In a play written in this language, a group of beings which have sudden fits of  
tooth-gnashing includes Damon and Radius. A satire of World War I titled for a certain \"Good  
Soldier\" was written in this language, in which Dr. Hallemeier remarks on a group whose  
members Primus and Helena become analogues of Adam and Eve after revolting and killing all  
humans except Alquist. For 10 points, name this language used by Jaroslav Hasek and Karel  
Capek, whose play  R. U. R.  coined the term \"robot.\"  
ANSWER:  Czech  language  
16. For Rydberg states, this quantity over hc is the y-intercept of a plot of wavenumber versus  
one over n squared. The vertical form of this quantity assumes no change in bond length and is  
greater than its adiabatic form. This quantity is roughly equal to the negative energy of the  
highest occupied molecular orbital. Photoelectron spectroscopy measures this quantity for  
materials. This quantity unexpectedly drops between nitrogen and oxygen due to the stability of  
half-full subshells. Mulliken averaged this quantity and electron affinity to calculate  
electronegativity. This quantity is analogous to the wavefunction of a metal, and it usually  
increases across a row on the Periodic Table. For 10 points, name this quantity, the amount of  
energy required to strip an electron away from a molecule.  
ANSWER:  ionization energy  [or  ionization potential ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 TOSSUPS  
17.  This thinker rejected the treatment of old age as a universal category in the book  The  
Coming of Age.  This thinker objected to a poor translation done by H. M. Parshley for Random  
House, of a book which Constance Borde and Sheila Malovany-Chevalier retranslated in the 21st  
century, and asked what to do with a mediocre, cruelty-obsessed author in the essay \"Must We  
Burn Sade?\" This author, who addressed the paradoxes of radical freedom in  The Ethics of  
Ambiguity,  attacked essentialism in a two-volume book arguing that Man posits himself as  
subject and construes half of humanity as the eternal Other against which Man is defined. For 10  
points, name this existentialist who wrote \"One is not born, but rather becomes, woman\" in  The  
Second Sex.   
ANSWER: Simone de  Beauvoir   
18. A man shows this character his method for tying shoes after she compliments his boots. This  
woman does not marry a biologist acquaintance as a mutual friend wishes. While she is sitting on  
a lawn, another character nearly runs into her reciting “The Charge of the Light Brigade.” This  
character becomes angry after a man tells her, “women can't write, women can't paint.” This  
woman and Charles Tansley are both guests of a family whose mother dies in the section “Time  
Passes,” and whose father annoys his son James by telling him the rain will prevent James from  
visiting the novel's title structure. For 10 points, name this painter staying with the Ramsays in  
To the Lighthouse.   
ANSWER:  Lily  Briscoe [or Lily  Briscoe ]  
19. In the final sentence of this novel, the protagonist vows to step \"out of history into history  
and the awful responsibility of time.\" Warnings about football come true when its title character's  
son, the quarterback Tom, breaks his spine after impregnating Sibyl Frey. In this novel, the  
surgeon Adam Stanton murders a man who charged him with a six million dollar public hospital.  
This novel's protagonist comes to understand his ancestor Cass Mastern after inadvertently  
causing the death of Judge Irwin. In this novel, Jack Burden describes the gradual corruption of  
his friend, the politician Willie Stark. For 10 points, name this Robert Penn Warren novel about a  
corrupt governor inspired by Huey Long.  
ANSWER:  All the King's Men   
20. This man's plan to retire was stymied when it was revealed that his replacement made a  
secret lifetime contract with Louis Wolfson. This man's court unanimously ruled that states were  
obligated to respect court decisions in  Cooper v. Aaron.  This man had earlier signed the Collier- 
Burns Act, which funded public improvements with a gasoline tax. As a popular governor of  
California, he became the losing running mate of Thomas Dewey in 1948. This man's court  
declared obligatory school prayer unconstitutional in  Engel v. Vitale,  and held that defendants  
must be informed of their rights in  Miranda v. Arizona.  For 10 points, name this man who  
presided over the  Brown v. Board of Education  decision in his tenure as Chief Justice of the  
Supreme Court.  
ANSWER: Earl  Warren 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 TOSSUPS  
21. José Ruiz Massieu was killed this year, possibly under the direction of his country's  
president's brother. A constitutional rule preventing any candidate from holding public office  
before the election left Luis Donaldo Colosio's campaign manager his party's nominee after  
Colosio was assassinated in Tijuana. This was the year of the “December mistake,” when the  
peso's devaluation set off an economic crisis. The Declaration of the Lacondón Jungle was issued  
at the beginning of this year to announce the demands of a group led by Subcommandante  
Marcos. The EZLN tried to seize San Cristóbal and protested among other things their country's  
new free trade agreement. Ernesto Zedillo's electoral victory in this year made him the last PRI  
president until 2012. For 10 points, name this year NAFTA came into effect.  
ANSWER:  1994   
22. This poem sarcastically declares, “a worshipful woman was this one,” after describing the  
ugliness of an old maidservant. The use of the term “wodwo” for “wild-man” in this poem is  
preserved by Simon Armitage’s recent translation. Opening “once the siege and assault was  
ceased at Troy,” this poem uses a rhyme structure called the “bob and wheel.” In this poem, a  
man receives a deer, a boar, and a fox in exchange for three kisses. That character accepts a  
girdle from Bertilak's wife before being nicked on the neck as part of a beheading game that he  
started the prior Christmas Eve. For 10 points, name this work of the Pearl Poet featuring a  
knight of King Arthur and a giant of a certain color  
ANSWER:  Sir Gawain and the Green Knight   
23. Because a Young Tableau consists of rows and columns of numbers that are sorted, functions  
that search and extract the minimum value from these data structures are easily extended to such.  
Implementing a priority queue using this data structure provides good performance for Dijkstra's  
algorithm, especially when its Fibonacci type is used. An in-place sorting algorithm named for  
these data structures has an average runtime of big O of n log n, combining the best properties of  
insertion and merge sort, respectively. The binary type of these data structures must be complete  
binary trees. For 10 points, name these data structures whose order property dictates that data  
stored in a node must be less than or equal to all the node's descendants, so the smallest value is  
the root node.  
ANSWER: binary  heap s [prompt on  tree s] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 BONUSES  
1. This state is the home base of the ski-mask wearing insurgent Subcomandante Marcos. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this Mexican state that was the home of the Zapatista revolt. This southern state  
contains such cities as Tuxtla Gutierrez and San Cristobal de las Casas.  
ANSWER: Free and Sovereign State of  Chiapas   
[10] Chiapas, the southernmost Mexican state, borders this Central American country, which  
along with Belize, is on Mexico's southeast border.  
ANSWER:  Guatemala   
[10] The ruins of this Mayan city are located in Chiapas near the Usumacinta River. Smaller than  
Tikal or Chichen Itza, it was the home of Pacal the Great, whose tomb was located in the Temple  
of the Inscriptions.  
ANSWER:  Palenque   
2. In human females, this process stops at prophase I until puberty, and then pauses again at  
metaphase II until fertilization. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this form of cell division undergone by gametes, in which a single diploid cell divides  
into four haploid cells.  
ANSWER:  meiosis  [prompt on “division” or “reduction division”]  
[10] During prophase I of meiosis, homologous chromosomes recombine and exchange genetic  
material in a process given this name. Synaptonemal complexes are required for this process.  
ANSWER:  crossing over  [or chromosomal  crossover ]  
[10] Chromosomal crossover occurs during this stage of prophase I, though the actual chiasmata  
aren't visible until later.  
ANSWER:  pachytene  stage  
3. This leader delivered a \"funeral oration\" early in the Peloponnesian War, in which he  
promised that the children of dead soldiers would be raised by the state. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this foremost statesman of the Athenian Golden Age, who had his rival Cimon  
ostracized.  
ANSWER:  Pericles   
[10] Pericles then died of plague two years into the Peloponnesian War, as related by this  
Athenian general's history thereof. Thomas Hobbes translated this man's work into English.  
ANSWER:  Thucydides   
[10] The plague probably came into Athens through these structures, which people walked along  
to get from Athens to its port town of the Piraeus.  
ANSWER: the  Long Walls  [or  Makra Teiche ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 BONUSES  
4. The title character of this story owns a monograph of Leibniz's  Characteristica universalis  and  
a cycle of sonnets for the Baroness de Bacourt. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this short story, whose title character attempts to rewrite a Miguel de Cervantes  
novel.  
ANSWER: \" Pierre Menard , Author of the Quixote\" [or \" Pierre Menard , autor del Quijote\"]  
[10] This blind Argentinean author included \"Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote\" and \"The  
Garden of Forking Paths\" in his collection  Ficciones.   
ANSWER: Jorge Luis  Borges   
[10] A character in this Borges story is nicknamed the \"Englishman from La Colorada\" by the  
people of Tacuarembo. That character, Vincent Moon, reveals the story behind his scar to the  
landowner Cardoso.  
ANSWER: \"The  Shape of the Sword \" [or \"The  Form of the Sword \"; or \"La  forma de la  
espada \"]  
5. The cult of these deities arose after the decline of the cult of Ra during the sixth dynasty. For  
10 points each:  
[10] Name this set of nine deities headed by Atum and which is also called the Great Pesedjet.  
ANSWER:  Ennead  of Heliopolis  
[10] One member of the Ennead of Heliopolis was this evil deity who killed Osiris and hacked  
his body to pieces.  
ANSWER:  Set   
[10] This is the name given to the primordial mound of nothing that Atum sat on when he began  
the creation of the world.  
ANSWER:  Nun   
6. Answer these questions about the growth of the Industrial Revolution in continental Europe,  
for 10 points each.  
[10] This country became the first industrialized nation on the Continent in part because  
Cockerill family's stole British secrets. It became independent in 1830.  
ANSWER: Kingdom of  Belgium  [or  Belgie ; or  Belgique ]  
[10] Production of this resource in the Ruhr valley and in Saarland allowed German industry to  
take off by mid-century. It is a precursor to coke.  
ANSWER: bituminous  coal  [prompt on \"carbon\"]  
[10] This bank, founded by the Jewish Pereire brothers in 1852, spurred industrialization in  
France by letting investors pool their savings to finance huge public works projects.  
ANSWER: Société Générale du  Crédit Mobilier  [do not accept \"Crédit Mobilier of America,\"  
which is a completely unrelated organization] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 BONUSES  
7. In this novel, messages from a \"fabricant\" named Somni-451, recorded in a dystopic future  
Korea, lead people in the even further future on Hawaii to revere her as a goddess. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this 2004 novel by David Mitchell, whose six interrelated narratives are nested one  
inside the other. In each of its stories, one character has a comet-shaped birthmark.  
ANSWER:  Cloud Atlas   
[10] In this third narrative within  Cloud Atlas,  detective Luisa Rey works to shut down the  
Swannekke nuclear reactor in the 70s. Within the text, it is later revealed to be a fictional book  
under review by editor Timothy Cavendish.  
ANSWER:  Half-Lives : The First Luisa Rey Mystery   
[10] David Mitchell's earlier novel  Black Swan Green,  about a thirteen-year-old boy with a  
stutter, exemplifies this type of novel, a fictional account based heavily in autobiography with a  
French name.  
ANSWER:  roman à clef   
8. This character prays to God to protect her in her Act 3 aria \"Je dis que rien ne m'epouvante.\"  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this soprano role that was not present in the original novella by Prosper Merimee. As  
an innocent village maiden, she serves as a foil to the brash and indecent title character.  
ANSWER:  Micaela   
[10] In this other opera by the same composer, Nadir and Zurga sing the friendship duet \"Au  
fond du temple saint\" in spite of their mutual love for the Ceylonese princess Leila.  
ANSWER:  The  Pearl Fishers  [or  Les  Pecheurs de Perles ]  
[10] This composer of  The Pearl Fishers  included Micaela's aria and the still more famous  
\"Habanera\" in his  Carmen.   
ANSWER: Georges  Bizet   
9. This god is commonly depicted crushing a dwarf with his right leg during his cosmic dance.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this Hindu destroyer god who, like Brahma and Vishnu, is a member of the Trimurti.  
ANSWER:  Shiv a [or  Siv a]  
[10] Shiva and Parvati ride on this divine bull. Giant stone statues of this bull generally sit  
outside temples of Shiva.  
ANSWER:  Nandi   
[10] A famous temple to this Hindu god at Konark in Orissa is designed as a giant version of his  
chariot, complete with seven stone statues of the horses that draw it.  
ANSWER:  Surya  [or the  sun ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 BONUSES  
10. Raphael's  Deposition of Christ,  which is part of this museum's collection, is sometimes also  
known as its namesake \"Deposition.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this art museum in Rome, named for the nephew of Pope Paul V, whose collection  
includes several Baroque paintings and the early output of Bernini, such as his  David  and  Apollo  
and Daphne.   
ANSWER:  Galleria Borghese   
[10] This Titian painting, in which Cupid dips his hands into a sarcophagus surrounded by the  
white-clad bride of Niccolo Aurelio and the nude Venus, hangs at the Galleria Borghese.  
ANSWER:  Sacred and Profane Love  [or  Amor Sacro e Amor Profano ]  
[10] The Galleria also includes a self portrait as the jaundiced Bacchus by this Baroque artist and  
murderous tennis fan, who is best known for using chiaroscuro in paintings such as  The Calling  
of St. Matthew.   
ANSWER: Michelangelo Merisi da  Caravaggio  [or Michelangelo  Merisi ; or  Amerighi ]  
11. Answer the following about a concept in physics that conspiracy theorists love to talk about,  
for 10 points each.  
[10] This energy is required for a bound system to remain bound even at the point at which  
kinetic energy is zero. It is one-half h-bar times the circular frequency for a quantum harmonic  
oscillator.  
ANSWER:  zero-point  energy [or  ground  state energy]  
[10] Zero-point energy is often used in the explanation of this effect, in which an attractive force  
exists between two parallel uncharged plates in a vacuum.  
ANSWER:  Casimir  effect  
[10] The Casimir effect is predicted by this relativistic field theory, which interprets the  
interaction of charged particles as being carried out by virtual photons.  
ANSWER:  quantum electrodynamics  [or  QED ]  
12. The 475 basis point spread between this quantity and nominal GDP growth is one of the  
reasons cited by Bill Gross for his opinion that Treasury bond yields are 150 basis points too  
low. For 10 points each:  
[10] Identify this quantity which is the rate at which banks lend money to each other overnight in  
order to meet the minimum deposit requirements at an American institution.  
ANSWER:  Federal Funds  rate  
[10] This prescription suggests that the Federal Funds rate should be equal to 1.0 + 1.5 times  
inflation rate + 0.5 times the output gap. It is named after a Stanford professor.  
ANSWER:  Taylor  rule  
[10] Decisions on money supply and interest rates are made by this committee composed of  
Federal Reserve Bank presidents and Board of Governors. Its principle mechanism for achieving  
policies is the buying and selling of treasury securities.  
ANSWER: Federal  Open Market  Committee [or F OMC ] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 BONUSES  
13. This country has supposedly recently developed a stealth fighter called the Qaher-313,  
though many analysts think that it's fake. For 10 points each;  
[10] Name this country in which a group of students were arrested for creating a video of them  
dancing to Pharrell Williams's \"Happy.\"  
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of  Iran   
[10] This president of Iran tweeted that the government \"shouldn\"t be too hard on behaviors  
caused by joy.\" This member of the MDP party was elected in 2013.  
ANSWER: Hassan  Rouhani   
[10] A series of protests in 2011 occurred in this Arab-majority province located in the southwest  
of Iran. In 2005, its city of Ahvaz was the location of several bombings by the ARMB.  
ANSWER:  Khuzestan   
14. An important result in this theory was that no one could traverse the seven bridges of  
Konigsberg without going over one of the bridges twice. For 10 points each:  
[10] Name these mathematical constructs which consist of a group of vertices connected by one  
or more edges.  
ANSWER:  graph s  
[10] This kind of route in a graph visits each vertex exactly once. The task of finding one of  
these in a graph is NP-complete.  
ANSWER:  Hamiltonian  path  
[10] This theorem states that, in a sufficiently large graph, any coloring will have a  
monochromatic subgraph.  
ANSWER:  Ramsey 's theorem  
15. Name these people who lived in Gaul in pre-Roman times, for 10 points each.  
[10] These Celtic religious officials allegedly trained for twenty years to learn all their rituals,  
such as a veneration of a sacred oak.  
ANSWER:  druid s  
[10] People of this ethnicity founded the city of Massilia, now Marseilles, on the southern coast  
around 600 BCE. They also founded the colonies of Tarentum and Cyrene.  
ANSWER:  Greek s [or  Hellene s]  
[10] This tribe occupied the northernmost of the \"three parts\" into which Julius Caesar claimed  
Gaul was famously divided.  
ANSWER:  Belgae  [do not accept \"Belgians\"] 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 BONUSES  
16. This lover of Lou Andreas-Salomé penned the line \"You must change your life\" in his poem  
\"Archaic Torso of Apollo.\" For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this German poet of the  The Sonnets to Orpheus , who wrote \"Every angel is  
terrifying\" in the second of ten elegies which he wrote at Duino castle.  
ANSWER: Rainer Maria  Rilke   
[10] Rilke wrote a poem about one of these creatures which \"paces in cramped circles\" as it is  
imprisoned behind bars.  
ANSWER: a  panther   
[10] Rilke coined this term for short lyric poems which attempted to describe a single concrete  
entity clearly and in its own voice.  
ANSWER: \" object-poem s\" [or  object poetry ; or  thing-poem s; or  poem of thing s; or  
Dinggedicht e]  
17. Members of this organization were instrumental in the election of George Moscone as mayor  
of San Francisco in 1975, and its leader was appointed to the San Francisco Housing Authority.  
For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this religious community, over 900 members of which died in a mass murder-suicide  
in 1978.  
ANSWER:  People's Temple  [prompt on  Jonestown ]  
[10] People's Temple was led by this cult leader who established a namesake community for  
People's Temple in Guyana.  
ANSWER: Jim  Jones   
[10] This Congressman visited Jonestown with journalists and concerned relatives of cult  
members shortly before the Jonestown Massacre. He and four others were murdered upon Jim  
Jones' orders, making him the only congressman to die while serving in the line of duty.  
ANSWER: Leo  Ryan   
18. Answer the following about writing methods in Java, for 10 points each:  
[10] Methods in Java are defined inside one of these fundamental units of object-oriented  
programming. They have constructors, and objects are instances of them.  
ANSWER:  class es  
[10] At least one class must have a \"main\" method, which is usually public, void, and has this  
property. This property means that a method can be executed without an object of the class  
having first been instantiated.  
ANSWER:  static   
[10] Methods in subclasses can overwrite same-named methods in parent classes. To access the  
parent class's method in Java, you can use this keyword before the method's name.  
ANSWER:  super 
NASAT 2014    ROUND 14 BONUSES  
19. The bassoons and violas introduce the funeral march-like theme that opens this piece. For 10  
points each:  
[10] Name this Tchaikovsky composition written for wounded Serbian and Russian soldiers  
fighting the Ottoman Empire. It uses folk songs and anthems from both countries, including  
\"God Save the Tsar.\"  
ANSWER:  Marche Slave  in B-flat minor  [or  Slavonic March ]  
[10]  Marche Slave  is frequently combined in performance with this other patriotic Tchaikovsky  
piece, which also uses \"God Save the Tsar,\" alternating it with cannon shots.  
ANSWER:  1812 Overture  [or  The  Year 1812 ; or  Overture of 1812 ]  
[10] Tchaikovsky also used \"God Save the Tsar\" in a festival overture on the national anthem of  
this country, honoring the birthplace of Alexander III's wife. Organists born in this country  
include the composer of  Music of the Spheres  and the organizer of several popular late  
seventeenth century  Abendmusik  concerts.  
ANSWER: Kingdom of  Denmark  [or Kongeriget  Danmark ]  
20. Answer these questions about the character Beowulf, for 10 points each.  
[10] Beowulf sails south to help this king of Denmark ward off the monster Grendel.  
ANSWER:  Hrothgar   
[10] The taunter Unferth doubts Beowulf's skill at this activity. Beowulf loses to Breca in a  
contest of this type due to being waylaid by monsters.  
ANSWER:  swim ming contest  
[10] Beowulf serves this lord, the king of the Geats, who speaks with Beowulf between the  
episodes involving Grendel's mother and the dragon. This man dies raiding the Frisians.  
ANSWER:  Higelac  [or  Hygelac ]  
21. The Visigoths held this religious belief system well into the 6th century CE. For 10 points  
each:  
[10] Name this belief declared a heresy at the Council of Nicaea, whose namesake bishop argued  
that the Son was created by, after, and apart from God the Father.  
ANSWER:  Arian ism [or  Arian  heresy]  
[10] A bishop from this city named Athanasius sharply attacked Arianism. About a century later,  
a pagan female intellectual named Hypatia was killed by rioting Christians in this city.  
ANSWER:  Alexandria , Egypt  
[10] This man's  Ecclesiastical History  and  Life of Constantine  give contemporary accounts of the  
Arian controversy. He notoriously argued that Jesus came when he did because Augustus had  
just cleared the roads and seas of brigands, letting the Gospel spread safely.  
ANSWER:  Eusebius  of Caesarea 
