VHSL States 2012 
Round 5 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The binding of these molecules is described by their hapticity (hap-TIH-sih-tee). EDTA is an example of 
these objects used for purifying or preserving foods due to its ability to sequester metal ions. One of these 
objects may bind at several sites in a chelation (key-LAY-shun) reaction. Some examples, such as the 
carbonate ion, may bind at one site or more than one site; that is, they may be polydentate or monodentate. 
For 10 points, name these ions or molecules that bind to central atoms to form coordination complexes. 
ANSWER:  
ligand 
s 
121-12-56-05101 
2. This king issued the  
paulette 
, which allowed nobles to pay to make offices hereditary. He eliminated his 
country's debt through the advice of the Duc de Sully and built the Louvre and Pont Neuf (Pon Noo) before 
his assassination by Francois Ravaillac. This man fought two claimants who shared his name in a conflict 
that ended after he declared \"Paris is well worth a mass\" and converted to Catholicism. For 10 points, name 
this king of France who provided for toleration of Huguenots (HOOG-uh-nots) in the Edict of Nantes. 
ANSWER:  
Henry IV 
 of France [or  
Henry III of Navarre 
; prompt on  
Henry 
] 
080-12-56-05102 
3. Regions with a high concentration of this element but without much metabolizable iron are known as 
HNLC. An oxide of this element is the primary cause of eutrophication (YOO-tro-FEE-kay-shun) along 
with phosphates. A important process that uses a ruthenium catalyst to produce a compound of this element 
and hydrogen is the Haber-Bosch process. Lightning and rhizobia bacteria both contribute significantly to 
the \"fixing\" of this element. For 10 points, name this element essenial for life that is found in ammonia. 
ANSWER:  
nitrogen 
066-12-56-05103 
4. This man was prime minister when his country met with Russia at the Alvensleben Convention. In 
addition to forming the Three Emperor's League, he convinced one country to attend the Gastein 
Convention, which helped this man cause a war that ended at the Battle of Sedan. This deliverer of the 
\"Blood and Iron\" speech instituted an Anti-Catholicism program known as Kulturkampf. This man served 
under Wilhelm I before being let go by Wilhelm II. For 10 points, name this \"Iron Chancellor\" of Germany. 
ANSWER: Otto Eduard Leopold von  
Bismarck 
149-12-56-05104 
5. It is not thiamine (THIGH-uh-meen), but this compound influences both retrograde and anterograde 
(ann-TEH-roh-grade) amnesia in Korsakoff's (KORE-suh-koffs) Syndrome. A moderate amount of this 
compound can lead to hepatic steatosis (stay-uh-TOH-sis), or fatty liver. Hepatitis and cirrhosis 
(sih-ROH-sis) are caused by prolonged exposure to this compound, which is converted to acetaldehyde 
(ah-sit-AL-dih-hide) by a namesake dehydrogenase (de-high-DRAW-gih-nase). A fetal syndrome may 
develop if it is present in high amounts during pregnancy. This depressant is fatal if it comprises .45% of 
the blood. For 10 points, name this compound whose abuse leads to intoxication. 
ANSWER:  
alcohol 
 [or  
ethanol 
 or  
C H OH 
2 5 
] 
020-12-56-05105 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  1 of 10 
6. Bezaleel Morrice wrote two poems about this man's translation of Homer, the first addressed to Thomas 
Tickell, whose translation Joseph Addison had originally supported over this man's. That quarrel formed 
the background to part of this man's  
Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot. 
 He coined the phrase, \"A little learning is a 
dangerous thing\" in his  
An Essay on Criticism. 
 His other works include a mock epic about the Baron 
cutting Belinda's hair. For 10 points, name this poet of  
The Rape of the Lock. 
ANSWER: Alexander  
Pope 
003-12-56-05106 
7. The Zala River flows into this country’s largest lake, Balaton. Due to hyperinflation in the mid-twentieth 
century, this country replaced the pengo with a new monetary unit, the forint. This country had to cede 
two-thirds of its inhabitants and land as a result of the Treaty of Trianon after World War I. It is bordered to 
the north by Slovakia, to the east by Romania, and to the west by Austria. For 10 points, name this country 
with a capital located at Budapest. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Hungary 
 [or  
Magyar 
 Koztarsasag] 
130-12-56-05107 
8. One of this man’s poems declares, “The expense of spirit in a waste of shame is lust in action.” Another 
concludes, “Die single, and thine image dies with thee,” urging a young man to marry. He inverted the 
blazon (blay-ZAHN) in a poem stating, “My mistress’ eyes are nothing like the sun,” about an unidentified 
“Dark Lady.” Another of his poems concludes with the line, “So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.” 
For 10 points, name this prolific writer of sonnets, including one beginning, “Shall I compare thee to a 
summer’s day?” 
ANSWER: William  
Shakespeare 
 [or The  
Bard 
] 
014-12-56-05108 
9. During Juscelino Kubitschek's rule of this country, the capital was moved inland. Escaped slaves in this 
country formed settlements known as quilombos (KEE-lom-bows). The Canudo and Contestado rebellions 
occurred in this country. Getulio Vargas established the Estado Novo in this country. This country first 
gained independence under Pedro I, who had taken over as regent after the departure of Joao (JOH-ow) VI. 
For 10 points, name this South American country that was colonized by Portugal in the sixteenth century. 
ANSWER: Federative Republic of  
Brazil 
 [or Republica Federativa do  
Brasil 
] 
140-12-56-05109 
10. This man's works in Latin include  
De Vulgari Eloquentia, 
 in which he argued for the literary use of the 
vernacular. One of his vernacular works intersperses poetry and prose in describing his love for a member 
of the Portinari family. That work is called  
La Vita Nuova. 
 That aforementioned woman reappears in 
another work by this man, replacing Virgil as the his guide when he reaches the top of Mount Purgatory. 
For 10 points, name this Italian poet whose  
The Divine Comedy 
 begins with the  
Inferno. 
ANSWER:  
Dante 
 Alighieri [or Dante  
Alighieri 
] 
142-12-56-05110 
11. Some of this game's puzzles involve a \"lively\" substance that \"does not like the human skeleton.\" One 
of the characters finds herself answering to the name of \"Caroline\" in a conversation with Cave Johnson 
while her consciousness is in a potato battery. At the beginning of this game, the player character is rescued 
by Wheatley. For 10 points, name this 2011 sequel that sees Chell reunite with GLaDOS in Aperture 
Science, where she creates blue and orange constructs with the namesake gun. 
ANSWER:  
Portal 2 
 [do not accept or prompt on \"Portal\"] 
142-12-56-05111 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  2 of 10 
12. This author wrote about the sterile Joe Saul in a novel in play format entitled  
Burning Bright. 
 This 
author wrote about a man called The Pirate who lives in a former chicken coop and a man who receives 
two houses in his grandfather's will in  
Tortilla Flat. 
 In another novel by this author, Jim Casy is beaten to 
death by police, and the Joad family moves west looking for work during the Dust Bowl. For 10 points, 
name this author of  
Of Mice and Men 
 and  
The Grapes of Wrath. 
ANSWER: John Ernst  
Steinbeck 
088-12-56-05112 
13. In an unfinished work by this man, the title character is surprisingly not punished when he spills soup, 
and his stutter prevents him from defending himself when accused of mutiny. That character created by this 
man accidentally kills Claggart and is sentenced to hanging by Captain Vere. In one novel by this man, an 
unused coffin saves the life of the narrator after the  
Pequod 
 sinks due to Captain Ahab's insane pursuit of 
the title white whale. For 10 points, name this author of  
Billy Budd 
 and  
Moby-Dick. 
ANSWER: Herman  
Melville 
121-12-56-05113 
14. Once every year, this people met with the Gargareans, a tribe that lived over the mountains. They came 
to the aid of the Trojans under a child of Ares who was killed by Achilles, Penthesileia 
(pen-thuh-sil-EY-uh). Theseus fought them off when they attacked Attica. Another ruler of these people 
had a girdle that Heracles had to obtain for one of his labors. Their rulers included Hippolyta, and they 
were known for removing their right breasts in order to fight better. For 10 points, name this ancient race of 
warrior women from Greek myth. 
ANSWER: the  
Amazons 
080-12-56-05114 
15. This character's co-workers include Pilbow and Spivey, the latter of whom is, according to Dale 
Harding, incapable of doing his job without this character's assistance. She threatens to tell another 
character's mother about that character's relationship with the prostitute Candy, causing Billy Bibbit to 
commit suicide. This character is the subject of a bet that Randle McMurphy can drive her crazy in one 
week. For 10 points, name this tyrannical nurse from  
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. 
ANSWER: Nurse  
Ratched 
 [or  
Big Nurse 
] 
003-12-56-05115 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 5 
Directed Round 
1A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the reference angle corresponding to an angle of 210 
degrees? 
ANSWER:   degrees 
30 
1B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the volume of a cone whose radius and height are the 
same as a right cylinder of volume 30 cubic units? 
ANSWER:   cubic units 
10 
2A.  What supercontinent merged with Laurasia (luh-RAY-shuh) to form Pangaea (pan-GEE-uh)? 
ANSWER:  
Gondwana 
land (gone-DWOHN-uh-land) 
2B.  In Spanish, what formal, second-person singular pronoun is used in more formal situations, as opposed 
to  ? 
tu 
ANSWER:  
usted 
 [do not accept  
ustedes 
] 
3A.  What early Roman law code was crafted by a commission of ten men after the founding of the 
Republic? 
ANSWER: Law of the  
Twelve Tables 
3B.  Recep Erdogan is the prime minister of what country, which condemned France's 2012 decision to 
criminalize denial of the Armenian genocide? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Turkey 
4A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Randy can paint a room in 5 hours. Julie can paint a room in 
3 hours. Mark can paint a room in   hours. It takes 50 minutes to paint the room with all three working 
x 
together. How long does it take Mark to paint a room by himself? 
ANSWER:  
1.5 hours 
 [or  
90 minutes 
] 
4B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. A data set is depicted on a stem-and-leaf plot. The first row 
has stem 2 and leaves 0, 1, 3, and 7. The second row has stem 3 and leaf 3. The third row has stem 4 and 
leaves 1 and 5. What is the mean of this data set? 
ANSWER:  
30 
5A.  Which thinker advocated toleration for all religious viewpoints, excepting Catholicism and atheism, in 
his  
A Letter Concerning Toleration, 
 and also advocated the idea of a tabula rasa in his  
An Essay 
Concerning Human Understanding 
? 
ANSWER: John  
Locke 
5B.  What simplest aldehyde has the formula CH O and is used to preserve corpses? 
2 
ANSWER:  
formaldehyde 
 [or  
methanal 
] 
6A.  What cells deposit calcium and form the matrix of the bone tissue? 
ANSWER:  
osteoblasts 
 (AH-stee-oh-blasts) 
6B.  What second largest city in Spain is the capital of Catalonia and is on the shore of the Mediterranean 
Sea? 
ANSWER:  
Barcelona 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  4 of 10 
7A.  Guns and butter are the goods typically charted on what graph, which is convex and 
downward-sloping, and shows the possible combinations of quantities of goods that can be made with a 
given set of resources? 
ANSWER:  
PPC 
 [or  
production possibility frontier 
; or  
production possibilities frontier 
] 
7B.  The Cape May Ferry travels across the bay named for what river that runs through New Jersey and 
past Philadelphia? 
ANSWER:  
Delaware 
 River 
8A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A weighted die comes up as a 6 30% of the time. What is the 
probability of rolling at least 3 sixes in four rolls? 
ANSWER:  
0.0837 
 [or  
8.37% 
] 
8B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Compute the determinant of the matrix with first row [2 3 
-1], second row [3 4 2], and third row [0 -2 -5]. 
ANSWER:  
19 
9A.  Wikipedia shut down on January 18th to protest what controversial anti-piracy law? 
ANSWER:  
SOPA 
 [or  
Stop Online Piracy 
 Act] 
9B.  The inputs of the dot product are what type of object that can be represented as a one dimensional 
matrix? 
ANSWER:  
vector 
s 
10A.  What painting by Edward Hopper is set in a diner whose three patrons avoid eye contact with one 
another? 
ANSWER:  
Nighthawks 
10B.  Whose orchestral piece  
The Chairman Dances 
 is an \"out-take\" from his opera  
Nixon in China 
? 
ANSWER: John Coolidge  
Adams 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 5 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This composer included works like \"Frozen Tears,\" \"Will o' the Wisp,\" and \"The Weather-vane\" in his 
song cycle  
Winterreise. 
 A piano quintet by this composer is named after a movement featuring variations 
on \"Die Forelle\" (for-EHL-a), another of his  
Lieder 
 (\"leader\"). This man's incidental music for the play  
Rosamunde 
 has been used to complete another of his works. For 10 points, name this composer of the 
Trout Quintet, whose eighth symphony is the \"Unfinished.\" 
ANSWER: Franz  
Schubert 
088-12-56-05117 
2. This type of variable is returned by the C function malloc. They can cause programs to crash when they 
are \"wild\" or \"dangling\". In C, linked lists are linked using these variables. The indexing of arrays is done 
using these variable's namesake arithmetic. In C, these variables can be dereferenced using the asterisk 
operator. Their void type can refer to objects of any type. For 10 points, name these variables that reference 
the address of a function or variable in memory. 
ANSWER:  
pointer 
s 
066-12-56-05118 
3. The retirement of one star for this baseball team was described in John Updike's essay \"Hub Fans Bid 
Kid Adieu.\" During this team’s “Impossible Dream” season, it featured the last winner of the hitting Triple 
Crown, Carl Yastrzemski (yah-STREM-ski). A year after this team was knocked out of the playoffs by an 
Aaron Boone home run, a pitcher for this team won in the ALCS while wearing a bloody sock. This team 
overcame a three games to none deficit in the 2004 ALCS under the management of Terry Francona. For 
10 points, name this team which fell apart in September 2011 and is the rival of the Yankees. 
ANSWER: Boston  
Red Sox 
 [or  
Boston 
 Red Sox; prompt on  
Sox 
] 
149-12-56-05119 
4. One poet belonging to this literary movement \"doubt[s] not that God is good, well-meaning, kind\" but 
cannot understand why he \"bid him sing.\" Besides Countee Cullen, another member of this movement 
wrote the lines \"he slept like a rock or a man that's dead\" in his poem \"The Weary Blues.\" That poet also 
wrote about how his \"soul has grown deep like the rivers\" in \"The Negro Speaks of Rivers.\" For 10 points, 
name this literary movement named for a New York neighborhood whose writers included Langston 
Hughes. 
ANSWER:  
Harlem Renaissance 
105-12-56-05120 
5. Indirect evidence for waves that carry radiation of this type was provided by the Hulse-Taylor binary 
pulsar. Newton's concept of \"action at a distance\" implied that this could have an infinite speed. The 
bending of light due to it is known as its namesake lensing. It is caused by the curvature of spacetime in 
GR. On the earth's surface, 9.8 meters per second squared is the acceleration due to this. For 10 points, 
name this weakest of the four fundamental forces, which depends upon an object's mass. 
ANSWER:  
gravity 
 [or  
gravitation 
al] 
142-12-56-05121 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  6 of 10 
6. Halls in which this religion is practiced are called \"honden.\" Many of the tales behind this religion are 
found in the  
Record of Ancient Matters, 
 which tells the story of Jimmu. Steps leading up to places of 
worship for this religion are known as Torii. Ryujin (RYE-oo-jin) is the water deity in this religion, and 
Izanagi's purification after entering Yomi led to the birth of Amaterasu in this religion’s mythology. For 10 
points, name this religion that worships the kami (KAH-mee) and is practiced mainly in Japan. 
ANSWER:  
Shinto 
ism 
149-12-56-05122 
7. In one episode of this show, creatures state “The circle must be broken,” which is a reference to the 
electric field that surrounds a giant brain located in Warehouse 15. Harold Saxon is a character on this 
show whose existence was foretold to the protagonist by the Face of Boe. Sec, who leads the Cult of Skaro, 
is a Dalek and therefore the sworn enemy of this show’s Time Lord protagonist. For 10 points, name this 
BBC show that follows a time-traveling, police-box-using adventurer. 
ANSWER:  
Dr. Who 
149-12-56-05123 
8. In certain areas, these events originate in the Benioff (BEHN-ee-off) Zone. These events are modeled by 
elastic-rebound theory. These events can cause liquefaction, and phenomena associated with these events 
cause a \"shadow zone.\" Those phenomena are S and P waves. They are measured on the moment 
magnitude scale. They can cause tsunamis when they occur underwater, and they are followed by 
aftershocks. For 10 points, name these events that occur at fault boundaries and were measured using the 
Richter scale. 
ANSWER:  
earthquake 
s 
124-12-56-05124 
9. This artist painted his first wife, Camille Doncieux (don-SHOE), in  
Woman in a Green Dress 
. Late in 
life, this artist painted weeping willow trees to honor dead soldiers from World War I. He showed an 
edifice at different times of day, showing the changes of color that the tones of sunlight illuminate, in a 
series of paintings of Rouen (roo-EN) Cathedral. Another of his paintings, depicting the harbor at Le Havre 
(HOV), gave its name to an artistic movement. For 10 points, name this French Impressionist who created  
Impression, Sunrise 
. 
ANSWER: Claude  
Monet 
 (moe-NAY) 
040-12-56-05125 
10. The Euler-Mascheroni (\"oiler\" mah-scuh-ROH-nee) constant is the limit as   goes to infinity of the 
n 
harmonic series minus this function of   In a sorted array with   elements, performing this operation on  
n. n n 
approximates the worst case time for a binary search. In chemistry, placing a lowercase p in front of a 
quantity indicates that this function was performed on it. Differentiating this function for x yields a function 
proportional to one over x. For 10 points, name this operation, the inverse of exponentiation. 
ANSWER:  
log 
arithm [accept  
taking the log 
arithm; or  
finding the log 
arithm; or  
log of x 
; or obvious 
equivalents, accept natural  
log 
arithm before binary search] 
121-12-56-05126 
11. One novel set in this country deals with the political awakening of Demetrio Macias. This country, 
where the novel  
The Underdogs 
 was written, was also where the nun Sor Juana de la Cruz wrote her poetry. 
Perhaps the most noted author from this country wrote a novel about Harriet Winslow encountering an 
American who dies in this country,  
The Old Gringo, 
 as well as a novel about a man who acquired the 
Bernal estate to begin his rise to power. For 10 points, name this home country of the author of  
The Death 
of Artemio Cruz, 
 Carlos Fuentes. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
 [or  
Estados Unidos Mexicanos 
; or  
United Mexican States 
] 
019-12-56-05127 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  7 of 10 
12. A case of libel against this President led to the arrest of Benjamin Franklin Bache, the editor of the  
Aurora 
, due to one law signed by this man. This President in power during the \"quasi-war\" with a former 
ally lost support after the passage of the Alien and Sedition Acts, which came about after the poor reception 
of three delegates in France in the XYZ Affair. For 10 points, name this man who lost during the 
Revolution of 1800 to Thomas Jefferson after serving as the second President. 
ANSWER: John  
Adams 
023-12-56-05128 
13. In the movie  
Sun Valley Serenade 
, this man’s band popularized the song “Chattanooga Choo Choo.” 
This man’s band included Tex Bemeke on the saxophone, Wilburn Schwartz on clarinet, and Bobby 
Hackett on guitar. A movie about this man’s life included cameos by Gene Krupa and Louis Armstrong 
and starred James Stewart as this man. This man’s signature song was “Moonlight Serenade.” For 10 
points, name this American trombonist of the big band era who disappeared over the English Channel while 
touring with the Army Air Force Band during World War II. 
ANSWER: Glenn  
Miller 
030-12-56-05129 
14. In one story, this author claims that the Earth’s continents were pulled off of the molten moon. That 
story is found in this man’s  
t zero, 
 which is narrated by Qfwfq (q-f-w-f-q), who also narrates “The Distance 
of the Moon,” in this man’s  
Cosmicomics. 
 The country of Cimmeria appears in a novel by this man 
including the first chapter of  
Outside the Town of Malbork. 
 In that novel, every other chapter is written in 
second person. For 10 points, name this Italian author of  
If on a winter’s night a traveler. 
ANSWER: Italo  
Calvino 
149-12-56-05130 
15. American troops during this war spearheaded the Meuse-Argonne Offensive. The first appearance of 
U.S. troops during this war was at the Battle of Hamel, with those troops often known as Doughboys. The 
Creel Committee helped monitor the home front during this war. The American Expeditionary Force during 
this war was commanded by John Pershing. For 10 points, name this war that Woodrow Wilson \"kept us 
out of\" until after his 1916 reelection. 
ANSWER:  
World War I 
 [or  
First World 
 War; or  
Great 
 War] 
040-12-56-05131 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 5 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This poet described \"the innumerable caravan which moves to that mysterious realm, where each shall 
take his chamber in the silent halls of death.\" In one work, this poet asked the title creature, \"Seeks't thou 
the plashy brink of weedy lake?\" and \"Whither, 'midst the falling dew… dost thou pursue thy solitary way?\" 
One poem by this author is written \"to him who in the love of nature holds communion with her visible 
forms\" and has a Greek title. For 10 points, name this American poet of \"To a Waterfowl\" and 
\"Thanatopsis.\" 
ANSWER: William Cullen  
Bryant 
124-12-56-05132 
2. In the presence of a vacuum, this force can create a cold weld between smooth metals and is dependent 
on molecular forces. Coulomb's (KOO-loms) law states that it is independent of sliding velocity. This force 
increases with the roughness of surfaces. Amontons' laws state that this force is proportional to the applied 
load and independent of area of contact. The coefficient of this force is symbolized mu and is greater for 
the static form than for the kinetic form. For 10 points, name this force that opposes motion. 
ANSWER:  
friction 
124-12-56-05133 
3. One party in this case was represented by future Supreme Court Associate Justice Abe Fortas, and the 
other side was argued by Bruce Jacob. This case stemmed from a burglary in a pool hall in Panama City, 
Florida. This case overturned the earlier ruling in  
Betts v. Brady 
 by holding that states did not have the 
power to selectively apply a certain right. For 10 points, name this Supreme Court case in which the Sixth 
Amendment was held to provide the right to an attorney for those who could not afford one. 
ANSWER:  
Gideon  v. Wainwright 
040-12-56-05134 
4. One revolt in this state was started by General Mariano Vallejo, whose cause received help when troops 
on the  
Congress 
 came to this state under Robert F. Stockton. This state's conquest was also led by Stephen 
Kearny, who came into conflict with one of this state's first senators, John C. Fremont. For 10 points, name 
this Western state that was the location of the Bear Flag Revolt, and which, shortly afterwards starting at 
Sutter's Mill, became the site of the 1849 gold rush. 
ANSWER:  
California 
023-12-56-05135 
5. Adding an ethylene (EH-thuh-leen) group to this compound forms the monomer unit of polystyrene. 
Fully hydrogenating this compound forms cyclohexane. Huckel supposedly determined this compound's 
structure by dreaming of a snake chasing its own tail. When two of its rings are joined together, it becomes 
naphthalene (NAP-thuh-leen) and when a methyl (MEH-thul) group is added to it, it becomes toluene 
(TOHL-yoo-een). It is often symbolized by a circle inside of a hexagon. For 10 points, name this aromatic 
compound with formula C H . 
6 6 
ANSWER:  
benzene 
 [accept  
C H 
6 6 
 before mentioned] 
127-12-56-05136 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  9 of 10 
A Maurice Ravel concerto written for Paul Wittgenstein, who was injured in World War I, is perhaps the 
most notable piece of piano music with what playing restriction? 
ANSWER: written for the  
left hand 
 [or can be played with the  
left hand 
 alone; prompt on answers such as 
\"written for only  
one hand 
\"] 
127-12-56-05137 
This is a calculation question. Fifteen coins, all either quarters or nickels, have a total value of $2.55. How 
many of the coins are quarters? 
ANSWER:  
9 
127-12-56-05137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2012     Round 5     Page  10 of 10 
