VHSL Regular Season 
Round 21 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This nation's first vice president was Mohammad Hatta. This country's first president expounded the philosophy of Pancasila 
before seizing personal control of the government in favor of \"guided democracy.\" Real democracy first came to this country in 
2001 with the presidency of Megawati, the daughter of that authoritarian ruler. In addition to experiencing the dictatorships of 
Suharto and Sukarno, this country's colonial history was marked by the domination of the Dutch East India Company. For 10 
points, name this large Muslim island nation of Southeast Asia. 
ANSWER:  Republic of  
Indonesia 
 [or Republik  
Indonesia 
] 
028-09-2-06101 
2. In this novel, Annie Littlefield is on a committee for Sanitary Unit Number Four. The preacher Tim Casy takes one character's 
spot in this novel after that character is arrested for being a communist. One character in this novel is deserted by Connie Rivers, 
and later gives a starving old man her milk after giving birth to a stillborn child in this work. In addition to discussing Rose of 
Sharon, this work details the deaths of Granma and Grampa, who are buried along the road to California in this novel. For 10 
points, name this novel which follows the Joad family's hardships escaping from Dust Bowl Oklahoma. 
ANSWER:    
The  Grapes of Wrath 
015-09-2-06102 
3. This thinker's work was extended to form the Meyers-Briggs personality test. This man coined the terms \"introvert\" and 
\"extrovert\". In  
Psychological Types 
, this man posited the existence of the male animus and female anima forms of archetypes. For 
10 points, name this German psychologist who broke with his teacher Freud and theorized that all humans share a collective 
unconscious. 
ANSWER:  Carl Gustav  
Jung 
005-09-2-06103 
4. One of the basic operations of this system is also called the Webb operation or the Pierce arrow. This system's algebraic 
structure with respect to set logic leads one operation to be represented as a product sign and the other as an addition sign in some 
contexts. Employed in SQL queries, this formalism also is used in digital circuits, any one of which can be constructed from 
enough NAND and NOR gates. For 10 points, identify this kind of logic employing true and false values as well as conjunctions 
like AND and OR, essential to constructing search queries. 
ANSWER:  
Boolean 
 logic 
022-09-2-06104 
5. In one play by this author, the servant Brainworm hijacks Kno'well's attempts to spy on his son. This author of the drama  
Every 
Man In His Humour 
 wrote a play in which the \"The Queen of Fairy\" is sought by Abel Drugger, who brings news of Dame 
Pliant's arrival. This author wrote \"drink to me with only thine eyes,\" in his play about Mosca, Celia, and a Venetian nobleman. Sir 
Epicure Mammon attempts to buy a philosopher's stone from Subtle in another of this author's plays. For 10 points, name this 
Elizabethan playwright of  
Volpone 
 and  
The Alchemist 
. 
ANSWER:    Benjamin \"Ben\"  
Jonson 
020-09-2-06105 
6. Specialized phagocytes in this organ split hemoglobin molecules and are known as Kupffer cells. In the Cori Cycle, this organ 
combines lactate with pyruvate to form glucose via a process known as gluconeogenesis. This organ creates a product that is 
stored in the gallbladder, and is divided into four lobes. Chronic alcohol consumption can impair this organ's ability to regenerate 
and can cause cirrhosis, a disease of this organ. For 10 points, name this organ that produces bile. 
ANSWER:    
liver 
026-09-2-06106 
7. This man returned to North Carolina from the French and Indian War in 1756 and married Rebecca Bryan, with whom he had 
ten children. This man was placed in charge of laying out a road from present-day Kingsport, Tennessee, through the Cumberland 
Gap and onto the Kentucky River, where this man later resettled with his family in a town he named after himself. For 10 points, 
name this iconic American explorer and woodsman whose adventures made him one of the first U.S. folk heroes. 
ANSWER:   Daniel  
Boone 
045-09-2-06107 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 21     Page  1 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. In this work, Jacinto is seen guarding the opening of a ceremonial cave. Antonio Jose Martinez instigates a revolt of the Taos 
Indians earlier in this work. Magdalena warns the title character of the evil intentions of her husband Buck Scales and lives with 
Kit Carson. The lifelong friend of the title character of this work is Father Joseph Vaillant. For 10 points, name this novel 
centering on Father Jean Marie Latour's experiences in New Mexico, which was written by Willa Cather. 
ANSWER:    
Death Comes for the Archbishop 
030-09-2-06108 
9. Projects like LIGO are searching for hypothetical waves caused by this force. The Standard Model predicts that this force is 
carried by a massless, spin-2 particle, though it has yet to be observed. Unlike the other fundamental forces, this one cannot be 
renormalized in quantum field theory, leading to alternate theories of its operation like string theory. The principle of equivalence 
says that the effects of this force are indistinguishable from acceleration. For 10 points, name this force described by general 
relativity, the attraction that occurs between any two massive objects. 
ANSWER:  
gravity 
028-09-2-06109 
10. This artist's portrait of Gertrude Stein depicts her with a flat, masklike face. This artist portrayed himself as a harlequin 
wearing a diamond-patterned costume in his painting of lower-class acrobats, The Family of Saltimbanques. Another painting by 
this artist includes a woman holding her dead baby and a screaming horse, and depicts the bombing of a Basque village. Along 
with Georges Braque, this artist developed Cubism. For 10 points, name this Spanish artist who had Rose and Blue periods and 
painted Guernica. 
ANSWER: Pablo  
Picasso 
004-09-2-06110 
11. This author wrote the memoir  
Paula 
 as a letter to her deceased daughter. Joachin Andieta seduces the adoptive daughter of 
Rose and Jeremy Sommers, Eliza, in this writer’s  
A Daughter of Fortune 
. A clairvoyant girl in one of this author’s works begins 
to keep a journal after Uncle Marcos’s death and before she enters a nine-year period of silence. That girl created by this author, 
Clara del Valle, marries Esteban and gives birth to Blanca in a novel about the Trueba family. For 10 points, name this female 
Chilean author of  
The House of the Spirits 
. 
ANSWER:   Isabel  
Allende 
 Llona 
034-09-2-06111 
12. Meyer's Law relates the indentation form of this property with the force necessary for that indentation, which is necessary for 
the Brinell Scale of this property of minerals. The Hall-Petch relationship states that this property increases as particle size 
decreases. A Vickers test is another way to determine this property for a mineral, and sclerometers are used to measure the scratch 
form of this property, for which talc has a value of one. For 10 points, name this property of minerals, for which diamond has a 
value of ten on the Mohs Scale. 
ANSWER:  
Hardness 
036-09-2-06112 
13. In one song, this band says that \"We would shout and swim about the coral that lies beneath the waves,\" if they were at the 
titular location. A folk song by this band sees the titular character lose a shootout with Dan. Another song by this band laments a 
preacher \"writing the words of a sermon that no one will hear,\" and asks where all the lonely people come from. A guitarist for 
this band wrote a song that repeatedly states, \"I don't want to leave her now.\" For 10 points, name this band originally from 
Liverpool, England, that sang \"Rocky Raccoon,\" \"Eleanor Rigby,\" and \"Something.\" 
ANSWER:  The  
Beatles 
002-09-2-06113 
14. During this leader's reign, the treaties of Jassy and Kuchuk Kainarji were signed with the Ottomans, allowing this ruler to 
acquire Crimea. Southern Ukraine was colonized by Grigory Potemkin during this leader's reign. This ruler faced a rebellion of 
Yaik Cossacks led by Pugachev, which was put down by Alexander Suvorov. This ruler was succeeded by Paul. This ruler 
ascended to the throne when Gregory Orlov murdered her husband, Peter III. For 10 points, name this Enlightened Despot, the 
Empress of Russia in the late nineteenth century. 
ANSWER:    
Catherine II 
 of Russia [or  
Catherine the Great 
; or  
Yekaterina II 
; or  
Yekaterina Velikaya 
] 
035-09-2-06114 
15. The southern tip of this island is Eluanbi, in the Hengchun region. This island's highest peak is Yushan, which lies off of this 
island's north-south Central Mountain Range. The largest city in this island's south is the port of Kaohsiung (COW-shung). The 
Pescadores are found to the west of this island, which was hit by Typhoon Morakot in 2009. This island's largest city contains a 
one hundred and one story bamboo-shaped skyscraper. For 10 points, name this large island off the coast of East Asia, whose 
largest city is Taipei. 
ANSWER:   
Taiwan 
 [or  
Republic of China 
; or  
Formosa 
; do not accept \"China\"] 
036-09-2-06115 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 21     Page  2 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 21 
Directed Round 
1A.Johanna Sigurðardóttir became the the first openly gay head of state in the world when she was elected Prime Minister of this 
nation whose capital is Reykjavik. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Iceland 
1B.Name this former governor of Kansas and current Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
ANSWER: Kathleen  
Sebelius 
2A.Name this British agriculturalist who invented a horse-drawn hoe and the seed drill 
ANSWER: Jethro  
Tull 
2B.This is the German word for song. 
ANSWER:  
lied 
 [or  
lieder 
] 
3A.The area under it is the GINI coefficient. Name this economic curve that plots income inequality of a population. 
ANSWER:  
Lorenz 
 Curve 
3B.Name this author of \"The Storm\" and \"Desiree's Baby\" who wrote of Edna Pontellier in  
The Awakening 
. 
ANSWER: Kate  
Chopin 
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. What percent of 120 is 78? 
ANSWER:    
65% 
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. Subtract: 263.07 - 172.26. 
ANSWER:    
90.81 
5A.Name this actor who played young Vito Corelone in  
The Godfather Part II 
, Travis Bickle in  
Taxi Driver 
, and Jack Byrnes in  
Meet the Parents 
ANSWER: Robert  
De Niro 
5B.This quantity is the product of force times distance. 
ANSWER: mechanical 
work 
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. A cube has sides of lengths x + 3 inches, 2x inches, and x - 3 inches.  Find the 
volume of this cube. 
ANSWER:    
2x  - 18x cubic inches 
3 
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Simplify the fraction (x +7x+10)/(x +13x+40). 
2 2 
ANSWER:    
(x+2)/(x+8) 
7A.Heroic couplets, blank verse and Shakespearean sonnets are in this poetic meter consisting of five pairs of unstressed and then 
stressed syllables 
ANSWER:  
iambic pentameter 
7B.This river in southwestern United States creates the Horseshoe Bend and flows through the Grand Canyon. 
ANSWER:  
Colorado 
 River [or  
Red 
 River] 
8A.Name this organelle contiguous with the nuclear membrane that comes in rough and smooth varieties. 
ANSWER:  
Endoplasmic reticulum 
 [or  
ER 
] 
8B.Name this player who won the American League Batting Title in 2006, 2008, and 2009, the catcher for the Minnesota Twins 
ANSWER: Joseph Patrick  
Mauer 
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Suppose your school calculates GPA by counting AP classes as one-and-a-half 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 21     Page  3 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
classes (but with A's still worth four points, B's worth three points, etc.).  If you are taking four AP classes, with two A's and two 
B's, and two regular classes with two A's, what is your GPA?  
ANSWER:    
3.625 
 [or  
3 5/8 
; or  
29/8 
; or  
3.63 
] 
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Find the arc length cut by a central angle of 2.2 radians in a circle of radius 5 inches. 
ANSWER:     inches 
11 
10A.Name this type of fault exemplified by the San-Andreas Fault that has sinistral and dextral varieties in which the plates move 
horizontally over each other. 
ANSWER:  
transform fault 
10B.Name this French fauvist artist famous for his cutouts of blue nudes and the painting  
La Danse 
. 
ANSWER: Henri  
Matisse 
005-09-2-06116 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 21     Page  4 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 21 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. A form of this disease that attacks the lymph nodes is the most common type of scrofula. The \"miliary\" form of this disease 
occurs when the lesions are small. Screening for this disease is done via the PPD test, which is also called the Mantoux test. Like 
leprosy, this disease is caused by a mycobacterium. The most common form of this disease starts at a lesion known as a Ghon 
focus, from which springs a lesion on the lungs. For 10 points, name this lung disease, rampant in the Russian prison system, 
which was once known as \"consumption.\" 
ANSWER:   
tuberculosis 
 [accept  
TB 
; or  
consumption 
 before read] 
026-09-2-06117 
2. This composer was inspired by Ludwig Lindeman to compose his four Symphonic Dances, and his strolls around his home 
inspired his cycle  
The Mountain Maid 
.  This man composed a series of works that include a Macbeth-inspired  
Watchman's Song 
as well as the  
Wedding Day at Troldhaugen 
, his  
Lyric Pieces 
.  He also composed a series of works called the  
Holberg Suite 
, as 
well as another suite that contains movements like \"Anitra's Dance\" and \"In the Hall of the Mountain King.\"  For 10 points, name 
this composer of the  
Peer Gint Suite 
, a composer from Norway. 
ANSWER: Edvard Hagerup  
Grieg 
026-09-2-06118 
3. Harriet Robinson's case was merged with this case. Dissents in this case were written by Benjamin Curtis and John McLean. 
The original defendant in this case was John Emerson, who was sued after a journey from Missouri to Wisconsin. The decision in 
this case ruled the Missouri Compromise unconstitutional. For 10 points, name this 1857 Supreme Court decision written by Chief 
Justice Roger Taney, which asserted that African-Americans lack the rights of citizenship. 
ANSWER:   
Dred  Scott  v. John F.A. Sanford 
 [or  
Dred Scott v. John F.A.  Sanford 
; or Dred  
Scott 
 case] 
038-09-2-06119 
4. The title of this book was originally intended only for its final chapter, and may have come from a misunderstanding on the part 
of William Caxton. The historical source for the stories collected in this book may have been a Celtic military leader. This 
collection was based partially on the work of Chretien de Troyes. This work was based on English and French myths about the 
title character, who is the son of Uther Pendragon and employs Lancelot. For 10 points, name this collection of Arthurian tales 
written by Thomas Malory. 
ANSWER:     
Le  Morte D'Arthur 
 [or  
The  Death of Arthur 
] 
045-09-2-06120 
5. This figure seduced Leuce and then transformed her into a white poplar tree. According to  
The Iliad 
, Heracles wounded this 
man at Pylos. In one myth, this man allowed Eurydice to leave his realm, but only on the condition that Orpheus not look back 
until they reached the surface. With his brothers, Poseidon and Zeus, this man defeated the Titans. His namesake realm was 
guarded by Cerberus and bordered by the river Styx. For 10 points, name this Greek god of the underworld. 
ANSWER:    
Hades 
005-09-2-06121 
6. In Maurice Maeterlinck's  
The Blue Bird 
, Tyltyl (TILL-till) receives a hat containing a magic one of these items that reveals the 
true world when it is turned. In  
The Count of Monte-Cristo 
, Edmond Dantes ruins Caderousse by giving one of these items as a 
gift. Miladay de Winter steals two of these items in  
The Three Musketeers 
. John Unger finds out that Percy Washington's family 
lives on top of one of these items in another story. For 10 points, identify this gemstone which is \"as big as the Ritz\" in an F. Scott 
Fitzgerald work. 
ANSWER:     
diamond 
s 
019-09-2-06122 
7. One of this composer's symphonies begins with the notes E flat, D, D repeated three times, followed by a higher B flat. This 
composer of the Hafner and Linz symphonies subtitled his fortieth symphony \"Great,\" and one of his operas contains a 
fantastically difficult aria sung by the Queen of the Night. This composer died in Vienna before he could finish his requiem, which 
was completed by Sussmayr. For 10 points, name this German composer of the \"Jupiter\" symphony and  
The Magic Flute 
. 
ANSWER:  Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
004-09-2-06123 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 21     Page  5 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This man used the \"bear in the woods\" and \"morning in America\" ads to win one electoral campaign. This President fired over 
eleven thousand striking air traffic controllers early in his first term. This man's foreign policy included the bombing of Libya, the 
invasion of Granada in operation Urgent Fury, and his 1987 speech in West Berlin where he said, \"Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this 
wall!\" For 10 points, name this conservative 40th president who led the U.S. from 1981-1989. 
ANSWER:     Ronald Wilson  
Reagan 
015-09-2-06124 
9. A method of solving systems of linear equations in matrix form is known as this man's namesake \"elimination,\" and that method 
was extended for putting a matrix into reduced row echelon form by Jordan.  Another object named for this man follows the curve 
\"e to the quantity negative x squared over two, all over the square root of two pi.\" All distributions of repeated events converge to 
a form of that distribution according to the Central Limit Theorem, so it is also referred to as the Normal Distribution. For 10 
points, name this German who also names two of Maxwell's equations. 
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich  
Gauss 
028-09-2-06125 
10. This man fought Argentina's dictator Juan Manuel de Rosas as the leader of the Uruguayan navy. During the U.S. Civil War, 
Abraham Lincoln offered this man a Union command. Following the treaty of Villafranca di Veroni, this man became an enemy 
of Camillo di Cavour. This man led the Expedition of the Thousand in his conquest of Sicily. For 10 points, name this leading 
figure of the Risorgimento, who led the Red Shirts in his efforts to unify Italy. 
ANSWER:  Giuseppe  
Garibaldi 
030-09-2-06126 
11. One character in this novel, Hungry Joe, pretends to be a photographer for Life Magazine. Other characters include the 
physician Doc Daneeka and Colonel Cathcart, who continually raises the number of missions the protagonist has to complete. 
Major Major Major Major is stationed on the island of Pianosa along with the protagonist of this novel, Yossarian, who is 
prevented by the titular rule from avoiding flying combat missions. For 10 points, name this military satire written by Joseph 
Heller. 
ANSWER:    
Catch-22 
024-09-2-06127 
12. This ruler reinstated the Supremacy Act of 1534 and issued the Thirty-Nine Articles in an attempt to move this monarch's 
country away from Catholicism. One plot against this ruler involved a marriage to the Duke of Norfolk. Another plot involved the 
machinations of Sir Francis Walsingham. The Ridolfi and Babington Plots against this leader eventually led her to have Mary, 
Queen of Scots, executed. For 10 points, name this English queen whose rule followed that of Bloody Mary, and who was famed 
for her virginity. 
ANSWER:   
Elizabeth I 
023-09-2-06128 
13. This author's newest novel is about a private detective who travels to the lost continent of Lemuria from the fictional 
California town of Gordita Beach, named Doc Sportello. In an earlier novel by this man, a secret postal system called WASTE is 
run by Pierce Inverarity, whose death leads Oedipa Maas to attend the titular auction. In addition to writing  
Inherent Vice 
 and  
The 
Crying of Lot 49 
, this author described Tyrone Slothrop’s search for the V-2 rocket in another novel. For 10 points, name this 
famously reclusive author of  
Gravity’s Rainbow 
. 
ANSWER:    Thomas Ruggles  
Pynchon 
, Jr. 
019-09-2-06129 
14. The 1994 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to George Olah for using the \"magic\" variety of these compounds to create 
carbocations. One definition of these objects includes compounds, such as boron trifluoride, in which one element can accept 
electrons to form a full valence shell. These compounds can also be defined as those which can donate a proton, or those which 
can dissociate in water to form hydrogen ions. For 10 points, name these compounds that have a pH less than 7. 
ANSWER:  
acid 
s 
003-09-2-06130 
15. These peoples were issued an ultimatum by Henry Bartle Frere, leading to a conflict with colonialists. A militaristic rise 
amongst these peoples was known as the \"Mfecane,\" or \"Crushing,\" and arose near the Tugela River. These peoples perfected a 
military formation known as the \"Horns of the Buffalo.\" That formation proved helpful under this group's leader Cetshwayo in a 
conflict against the British that included battles like Rorke's Drift, Ulundi, and Isandlwana.  For 10 points, name these South 
African peoples who became feared warriors under their ruler Shaka. 
ANSWER:   
Zulu 
026-09-2-06131 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 21     Page  6 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 21 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This language had a seperate inflection pattern that was only used in the words for \"mother,\" \"father,\" \"brother,\" \"sister,\" and 
\"daughter.\" Letters used to write this language included the \"eth,\" \"ash,\" and \"thorn.\" This Germanic language absorbed 
vocabulary from successive interactions with Latin, Norse, and French. Early writers in this language included the hymnist 
Caedmon, and Alfred the Great. For 10 points, identify this tongue which was spoken by the Anglo-Saxons before evolving into 
the Middle and Modern forms of the present British language. 
ANSWER:    
Old English 
 [prompt on  
English 
; accept  
Anglo-Saxon 
 before it is read] 
019-09-2-06132 
2. Lithotripsy is the method of choice for removing these objects, which contain small amounts of mucoprotein.  The largest of 
them are sometimes known as \"staghorn\" ones.  About fifteen percent of them are composed of magnesium ammonium phosphate, 
but they are most commonly composed of calcium oxylate and calcium phosphate.   They are most noticeable when they end up in 
the ureter, causing back and groin pain as they \"pass.\"  For 10 points, name these hard objects that form in an organ used to filter 
blood. 
ANSWER:  
kidney stone 
s 
003-09-2-06133 
3. One god of this civilization wore a smoking mirror in place of a leg. A hummingbird god told this civilization to build its capital 
city where they saw an eagle perched on a cactus and eating a snake. Another god from this civilization's pantheon sailed east on a 
raft after vowing to return, and was identified as a plumed serpent. Tezcatlipoca (TEZ-COT-lee-PO-kuh) and Huitzilopochtli 
(HWEET-zill-oh-POACHED-lee) were gods of, for 10 points, which civilization that misidentified the arrival of Hernan Cortes as 
the return of Quetzalcoatl (QUET-zahl-co-AH-tul)? 
ANSWER:   
Aztec 
s 
003-09-2-06134 
4. The chloride of this element is used in Friedel-Crafts reactions. The first method of inexpensively purifying this element was 
discovered independently by Charles Hall and Paul Heroult. Later, Karl Bayer developed a method to extract this metal directly 
from its chief ore, bauxite. It is the only element along the Zintl line that is not considered a semimetal. For 10 points, name this 
most common metal in the Earth's crust, whose light weight makes it ideal for use in foil and cans. 
ANSWER:  
aluminum 
 [or  
Al 
; or  
aluminium 
]  
003-09-2-06135 
5. The protagonist of this work is the author of the novel  
Maia 
 and a prose epic about Frederick the Great. At one point in this 
work, that protagonist becomes sick after eating some overripe strawberries. This work ends shortly after the protagonist watches 
Jaschiu and Tadzio fighting on a beach before he succumbs to cholera. For 10 points, name this Thomas Mann novella detailing 
Gustav von Aschenbach's demise in the title Italian city. 
ANSWER:    
Death in Venice 
 [or  
Der  Tod in Venedig 
] 
024-09-2-06136 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 21     Page  7 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
