This is page 1 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2015  
Round 2  
First Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. He’s not a tsar, but this man helped draw up the Troppau (TROH-pow) protocol in response to  
unrest in Naples. This person announced one of his policies after August von Kotzebue (COT- 
suh-byoo) was murdered by Karl Sand. This politician cracked down on the Burschenschaften  
(BOOR-shun-shahf-tun) fraternities with the Carlsbad decrees. This man met with Castlereagh  
(CAS-ul-ray) and Talleyrand to establish the “Concert of Europe.” For 10 points, name this  
Austrian foreign minister who headed the 1815 Congress of Vienna.  
ANSWER: Klemens von  Metternich  [Klement Wenceslas Lothar von  Metternich -Winneburg- 
Beilstein]  
2. A polar equation setting r equal to this function of theta gives Archimedes’s Spiral. When this  
function is applied to an integrand, the resulting integral equals this function of the original  
integral. This operation, swapping rows, and replacing rows are the three elementary row  
operations. This function applied to log x is equivalent to taking the logarithm of x to a given  
power. The graph of this function of x is a straight line through the origin. For 10 points, name  
this basic function whose inverse is division by a constant.  
ANSWER:  multiplication  by a constant [or scalar  multiplication ; or  multiplication  by c; or r  
equals  a theta ; or y equals  a x ; or r equals  c theta ; or y equals  c x ; or obvious equivalents; do not  
accept “matrix multiplication”]  
3. A religious movement which was founded in this country was first practiced by Wodziwob  
(WOD-zee-wob), popularized by Wovoka (wuh-VOH-kuh), and claimed that its garments could  
repel bullets. Another religion from this country grew out of the Bible Student movement and  
publishes  Awake!  This country is home to a religion which claims that “another testament of  
Jesus Christ” was read in Reformed Egyptian from golden plates by Joseph Smith. For 10 points,  
the Ghost Dance, Jehovah’s Witnesses, and Mormons were founded in what country?  
ANSWER:  United States  of America [or  US A; or  America ]  
4. In 1997, Albanians rioted in the city of Vlora (vuh-LORE-uh) following the failure of several  
of these plans. Clarence Barron pointed out inconsistencies in one of these plans, which involved  
the creation of the Securities Exchange Company in Boston. A more recent one of these plans,  
which caused several Jewish organizations to lose money, was perpetrated by Bernie Madoff.  
For 10 points, name these unsustainable plans which promise investment returns for participants  
based on the funds of future investors, which are sometimes named for Charles Ponzi.  
ANSWER:  pyramid scheme s [or  Ponzi scheme s until “Ponzi” is read] 
This is page 2 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5. Antero Rubin won a victory during this war over Joseph Wheeler at the battle of Las  
Guasimas (gwah-SEE-muss). The policy of “reconcentration” employed by Valeriano Weyler  
helped lead to this conflict, during which the winning side was urged by “yellow journalists” to  
“remember the  Maine .” The Rough Riders helped win the Battle of San Juan Hill during this  
war. For 10 points, name this military conflict, which ended with the 1898 Treaty of Paris and  
granted the United States control over the Philippines and Cuba.  
ANSWER:  Spanish-American  War  
6. The closed-form solution for the nth term in this sequence is known as Binet’s formula. After  
the first four or so terms, every other number in this sequence is the largest number in a  
Pythagorean triple. The ratio of terms in this sequence approaches the golden ratio as the terms  
tend to infinity. This sequence was developed in the book  Liber Abaci  (LEE-bair uh-BAH-chee)  
by considering a growing rabbit population. Each term in this sequence is the sum of the  
previous two terms. For 10 points, name this sequence that begins “1, 1, 2, 3, 5.”  
ANSWER:  Fibonacci  sequence [or  Fibonacci  numbers]  
7. Operation Musketeer targeted this kind of structure. Emperor Wen of Sui (SWEE) ordered the  
construction of a “Grand” one of these structures. Ferdinand de Lesseps oversaw the creation of  
one of them. The construction of one of these things was allowed by the Hay-Bunau-Varilla  
(boo-NOW-vuh-REE-yuh) Treaty; that one of these things was eventually returned to Omar  
Torrijos (tore-EE-hohs). During a 1956 crisis, one of these structures was nationalized by Gamal  
Nasser. For 10 points, name this type of waterway such as the Suez and the Panama.  
ANSWER:  canal s  
8. This poem describes “the world, which seems to lie before us like a land of dreams” before  
asserting that it “hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light.” This poem describes the “eternal  
note of sadness” heard by Sophocles (SAH-fuh-cleez) on the Aegean (uh-JEE-un), and it  
concludes with the image of a “darkling plain where ignorant armies clash by night.” For 10  
points, name this poem set at the seaside, written by Matthew Arnold.  
ANSWER: “ Dover Beach ”  
9. South Korean researcher Hwang (WONG) Woo-Suk fabricated data suggesting that he  
performed this process. Meiosis (my-OH-sis) is absent from a type of reproduction similar to this  
process, called apomixis (ey-poh-MIX-is). The start of this process includes nuclear transfer of a  
somatic cell to an enucleated (eh-NOO-clee-ate-ed) oocyte (OH-uh-site) followed by an  
electrical shock. In 1996, a research team performed this process to create the sheep Dolly. For  
10 points, name this process in which genetic information is used to create an identical organism.  
ANSWER:  cloning  [or word forms]  
10. Butes (BYOO-tayz) was nearly killed by these beings, but was saved by the intervention of  
Aphrodite. According to the  Metamorphoses , Demeter created these beings to help look for  
Persephone (per-SEF-uh-nee). Orpheus saved the crew of the  Argo  from these beings. The  
captain who defeated them was tied to the mast of his ship, and ordered his men to plug their ears  
with wax. Odysseus ended their practice of making sailors crash against sharp rocks. For 10  
points, name these part-bird women who allured men with their songs.  
ANSWER:  Siren s 
This is page 3 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. This mathematician included proofs of the quadratic reciprocity theorem and the  
Fundamental Theorem of Algebra in his  Disquisitiones Arithmeticae  (DIS-kwiz-it-ee-OH-nayz  
ah-rith-MEH-tik-eye). He was the first to construct a regular seventeen-sided polygon using only  
a compass and straightedge. Independently of Legendre (luh-JON-druh), he developed least- 
squares regression to compute the orbit of the asteroid Ceres (SEER-eez). For 10 points, identify  
this German mathematician who sometimes lends his name to the normal distribution.  
ANSWER: Carl  Gauss  [Carl Friedrich  Gauss ; or Johann Friedrich Carl  Gauss ]  
12. This NFL team was the first-ever team with a losing record to win a game in the playoffs.  
After a recent playoff win, a defensive player for this team flamboyantly called out opposing  
receiver Michael Crabtree. It has retired the number 12 in honor of its fabled “12th Man,” its  
fans. This team won a playoff game thanks to a run from star player Marshawn Lynch that  
inspired the “Beast Mode” meme. For 10 points, name this Pete Carroll-coached NFL team that  
defeated the Denver Broncos in the Super Bowl played in 2014.  
ANSWER:  Seattle  Seahawks [or  Seahawks ]  
13. The protagonist of this novel notices that a particular word in James Joyce’s  Finnegans Wake   
is one hundred letters long. In this novel, the upstanding Buddy Willard slowly recovers from his  
tuberculosis. This novel’s narrator tries losing her virginity to a U.N. interpreter, but fails to do  
so until she encounters a professor on an excursion from her mental hospital, where she has been  
admitted for attempting to commit suicide. For 10 points, name this novel about Esther  
Greenwood by Sylvia Plath.  
ANSWER:  The  Bell Jar   
14. This island’s Lake Akan (AH-kahn) is home to large green algae balls known as marimo  
(MAH-ree-moh). The indigenous population of this island tells stories known as Yukar (YOO- 
car) and keeps long wavy beards. Its largest city hosts the annual Snow Festival. This island lies  
north of the Tsugaru (soo-GAH-roo) Strait and is connected to its southern neighbor by the  
Seikan (SAY-con) Rail Tunnel. For 10 points, Sapporo (suh-PORE-oh) is the capital of what  
home to the Ainu (EYE-noo) people, the northernmost of Japan’s four main islands?  
ANSWER:  Hokkaido   
15. The prelude of the  William Tell Overture  begins in E major with a solo for this instrument.  
Dvorak (duh-VOR-jack) quoted his song “Cypresses” in his B minor concerto for this  
instrument. One of these instruments, the Duport, was played by Mstislav Rostropovich (MEES- 
tuh-slahv ruh-STROP-oh-vitch). This instrument joins a piano and a violin in a piano trio. J.S.  
Bach composed six solo suites for this instrument, which is the lowest-pitched member of a  
string quartet. For 10 points, name this large string instrument played by Yo-Yo Ma.  
ANSWER:  cello  [or  violoncello ; do not prompt on “violin”] 
This is page 4 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 2  
Directed Round   
1A. What French novelist wrote about Etienne Lantier (EH-tee-ehn LOHN-tee-ey) leading a  
miners’ strike in  Germinal  (jair-mee-NAHL)?  
ANSWER: Emile  Zola   
1B. Given a secant line and a circle, what term denotes the segment of the secant line whose  
endpoints are on the circumference of the circle?  
ANSWER:  chord   
2A. What is the English name for the animal known by the Latin word “pullum” (POO-loom), by  
the French word “poulet” (poo-LAY), and as “pollo” (POH-yo) in Spanish?  
ANSWER:  chicken   
2B. Zeno Cosini from  Zeno’s Conscience  and Pi Patel from  Life of Pi  are examples of narrators  
with which characteristic quality that undermines their credibility?  
ANSWER:  unreliability  [or  unreliable  narrators]  
3A. This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the fortieth term of the arithmetic sequence  
whose first term is 1, second term is 5, and third term is 9?  
ANSWER:  157   
3B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Out of twelve draws, with replacement, from a  
standard deck, a heart is observed on five. What is the difference between the experimental and  
theoretical probability of drawing a heart?  
ANSWER:  1/6  [or  2/12 ]  
4A. What English king, who secured the French throne through the Treaty of Troyes (TWAH),  
used longbows to win the Battle of Agincourt (AH-jin-core)?  
ANSWER:  Henry V  [prompt on  Henry ]  
4B. Jesus told a parable about what character who departs with his father’s inheritance, only to  
squander the money and return to his father, begging for forgiveness?  
ANSWER: the  Prodigal Son  [or the  Lost Son ]  
5A. Give the term for organisms such as mosses and lichen (LIKE-en) that are the first to  
colonize a previously-disturbed ecosystem and thereby initiate ecological succession.  
ANSWER:  pioneer  species 
This is page 5 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
5B. What performer of “Try” and “Blow Me One Last Kiss” sang “I’m still a rock star, I got my  
rock moves” in her song “So What?”  
ANSWER:  Pink  [or Alecia  Moore ]  
6A. What product of incomplete combustion consists of a carbon-oxygen triple bond and  
competitively inhibits oxygen binding to hemoglobin?  
ANSWER:  carbon monoxide  [or  CO ; do not accept “carbon dioxide” or “CO ”]  
2 
6B. What river forms much of the border between Washington and Oregon?  
ANSWER:  Columbia  River  
7A. What Mannerist sculptor depicted Poseidon and his wife Amphitrite (am-fit-RAI-tee) in a  
salt cellar made for Francis I, and created the bronze sculpture  Perseus with the Head of  
Medusa?   
ANSWER: Benvenuto  Cellini   
7B. Name the first female CEO of General Motors, who has handled the company’s public  
response to a 2014 recall controversy.  
ANSWER: Mary  Barra  [Mary Teresa  Barra ]  
8A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Dwight and Angela are on exactly opposite sides of  
a hill 30 meters high. From Dwight’s position, the hill makes a 37 degree angle with the ground.  
From Angela’s position, the hill makes a 42 degree angle with the ground. Given that the sine of  
37 degrees is roughly 3/5 and the sine of 42 degrees is roughly 2/3, then, to the nearest meter,  
how many meters must Dwight walk to make it over the hill to Angela’s position?  
ANSWER:  95  meters  
8B. This is a 30-second calculation question. An original rectangle has a width of 3 units and an  
unknown length. One new rectangle is created by decreasing the length and width of the  
rectangle by one unit each. A second new rectangle of equal perimeter and equal area is created  
by decreasing only the length of the original rectangle. What is the length of the original  
rectangle?  
ANSWER:   units  4 
9A. What World War I British poet wrote “Anthem for Doomed Youth” and “Dulce (DOOL- 
kay) et Decorum Est?”  
ANSWER: Wilfred  Owen   
9B. What American author detailed the life of a former high school basketball star in a series of  
novels beginning with  Rabbit, Run ?  
ANSWER: John  Updike   
10A. John Capodistrias (CAH-poh-DIS-tree-uss) and the admiral Miaoulis (MEE-uh-OO-liss)  
were among the founding fathers of what modern European state, which won independence from  
the Ottoman Empire in 1832?  
ANSWER:  Greece  [or  Hellas ; or the  Hellenic Republic ] 
This is page 6 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
10B. What war, which was part of the War of the Austrian Succession, was named for a ship  
captain’s severed body part?  
ANSWER: War of  Jenkins Ear ’s 
This is page 7 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 2  
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups   
1. In a BCC crystal, each side length of the crystal equals four over root three times this quantity.  
van der Waals (VAN dur walz) names a scale for measuring this quantity according to the hard  
sphere model. Because f electrons shield poorly, this quantity’s decrease is greater than expected  
across the lanthanides (LAN-thun-idez). Normally, this quantity increases down and to the left  
on the periodic table, the opposite trend from electronegativity. For 10 points, name this quantity  
measured in angstroms, which is the average distance from the nucleus to the electron cloud.  
ANSWER: atomic  radius  [or ionic  radius ; or covalent  radius ; or van der Waals  radius ]  
2. An aria by this composer notes that women often change the tone of their voices and their  
thoughts. During a party in one of his operas, the drinking song “Libiamo ne’ lieti calici” (LEE- 
bee-ah-moh nay lee-ET-ee cuh-LEE-chee) is sung by Alfredo and Violetta. He wrote an opera in  
which the Duke of Mantua notes that “woman is fickle” in “La donna e mobile” (LAH don-eye  
MOH-bee-lay). In his opera set in Egypt, Radames (RAH-duh-mayz) is buried alive with the title  
Ethiopian princess. For 10 points, name this composer of  Rigoletto, La Traviata,    and  Aida.   
ANSWER: Giuseppe  Verdi  [Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco  Verdi ]  
3. The spurious extended version of this play known as the “B-text” includes a scene in which  
the title character performs a trick involving the removal of his fake head. The title character of  
this play asks, “Was this the face that launched a thousand ships?” upon summoning Helen of  
Troy. For 10 points, name this play about a scholar who sells his soul to Mephistophilis (meh- 
fih-STAH-fuh-leez), written by Christopher Marlowe.  
ANSWER:  Doctor Faustus  [or  The Tragical History of  Doctor Faustus ; do not accept “Doctor  
Faust” or “Faust”]  
4. This actor plays a Navy SEAL assigned to babysit five children in the 2005 film  The Pacifier .  
A character played by this actor battles Owen Shaw in an attempt to save his girlfriend Letty in  
the 2013 installment of a long-running film series. He portrays a Furyan (“fury”-an) warrior who  
battles the Necromongers in  The Chronicles of Riddick . The actor voiced the Iron Giant and also  
provided the voice of Groot in  Guardians of the Galaxy . For 10 points, name this actor, who  
portrays Dominic Toretto in the  Fast and the Furious  series of films.  
ANSWER: Vin  Diesel  [or Mark  Sinclair ; or Mark Sinclair  Vincent ]  
5. Time dilation was confirmed in an experiment which investigated the transverse form of this  
physical effect; that experiment was conducted by Ives and Stilwell. An expression for this effect  
uses a factor which equals the square root of quantity one plus beta over one minus beta. This  
effect causes changes in spectral lines in blueshift and redshift. For 10 points, name this effect  
which explains the perceived change in siren frequency for a passing ambulance.  
ANSWER:  Doppler  effect 
This is page 8 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
6. This country had two “school wars” over the role of religion in education. A Prime Minister of  
this country, Paul-Henri Spaak (SPOCK), wrote a 1956 report advocating the creation of the  
European Economic Community. The Council of the European Union and European Parliament  
meet here. After 1959 riots in Leopoldville, this country gave independence to the Congo. This  
country’s invasion by Germany caused the United Kingdom to enter World War I. For 10 points,  
name this country comprised of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking regions.  
ANSWER:  Belgium  [Kingdom of  Belgium ; or Royaume de  Belgique ; or Koninkrijk  Belgie ; or  
Koenigreich  Belgien ]  
7. The background of this painting, made using indigo and weld, was originally a deep green. It  
may have been inspired by a Michael Sweerts (SVEERTZ) portrait. The lack of definition on the  
left-hand side of its subject’s nose suggests it was made using a camera obscura, like its artist’s  
View of Delft.  The title figure in this painting is wearing a yellow-and-blue turban, and its  
creation was fictionalized in a Tracy Chevalier novel. For 10 points, name this Jan (YON)  
Vermeer painting that depicts a young woman wearing a piece of jewelry.  
ANSWER:  Girl With A Pearl Earring  [or  Het meisje met de parel ]  
8. This poem complains about people who “would have the rabbit out of hiding, to please the  
yelping dogs.” This poem’s speaker declares, “Spring is the mischief in me,” after saying of  
another character, “He is all pine and I am apple orchard.” While describing the title task, this  
poem’s speaker pokes fun at a simple neighbor who repeatedly quotes his father’s saying, “Good  
fences make good neighbors.” For 10 points, name this poem about repairing a dividing  
structure, written by Robert Frost.  
ANSWER: “ Mending Wall ”  
9. In this state, a community whose members practiced “stirpiculture” and manufactured  
silverware was founded by John Humphrey Noyes. The Millerites were one of the millenarian  
sects founded in this state’s “Burned-Over District.” This state was home to the Oneida (oh- 
NYE-duh) Community. Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton organized a meeting in this  
state which created a feminist “Declarations of Rights and Sentiments.” For 10 points, name this  
state where the Seneca Falls Convention was held and the Erie Canal was constructed.  
ANSWER:  New York   
10. This country’s military fired into riots that erupted in the West Point slum in response to a  
curfew. Formalities delayed entrance to this country’s newly-opened Bushrod Island clinic. Two  
Samaritan’s Purse workers were evacuated from this country for treatment with ZMapp in  
Atlanta. The man who later infected Nina Pham and Amber Vinson was criticized by President  
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf for lying to officials in this country in order to get to the U.S. For 10  
points, name this home country of Thomas Eric Duncan, who contracted ebola in Monrovia.  
ANSWER:  Liberia  [Republic of  Liberia ] 
This is page 9 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
11. A Shinto deity of this domain kills a goddess that prepares a feast by vomiting out food. The  
Egyptian god Set tears off a body part of Horus that represents this type of object. In many East  
Asian cultures, rice cakes are produced by a rabbit living at this location. A goddess of this  
domain is enamored by the Greek youth Endymion (end-IM-ee-un). When this object is fully  
visible, a werewolf transforms from a human into a wolf. For 10 points, identify this domain  
represented by the Roman god Luna.  
ANSWER:  moon  [or  moon  gods; or  lunar  deities]  
12. One of these buildings led to the establishment of McKeeversville by squatters hoping to be  
employed by Six Companies, Inc. One of them, named using the Guarani language, is shared  
between Paraguay and Brazil and is called Itaipu. The functional extinction of the baiji (BYE- 
jee) is partly attributed to the Three Gorges one of these structures on the Yangtze. Lake Mead  
was created by the one of them named after President Hoover. For 10 points, name these  
structures that are often used to generate hydroelectric power by obstructing river flow.  
ANSWER:  dam   s 
13. This molecule is synthesized by a protein made of an F1 catalytic core linked by a gamma  
subunit to an FO (“F”-”O”) motor. Deprivation of this molecule can result in rigor mortis since it  
is essential for releasing actin from myosin (MY-uh-sin). The cost of moving pyruvate (pie- 
ROO-vayt) into an organelle matrix prevents this molecule from reaching its maximum yield of  
38 molecules per glucose in aerobic respiration. For 10 points, identify this molecule generated  
in mitochondria (MYE-tuh-KON-dree-uh) that is the basic unit for cellular energy transfer.  
ANSWER:  ATP  [or  adenosine triphosphate ]  
14. With Alphonse of Poitiers (PWAH-tee-ey), this king defeated a force led by Hugh X (the  
tenth) of Lusignan (LOO-sin-YON) and Henry III of England at the Battle of Taillebourg (TYE- 
uh-borg). This ruler’s mother, Blanche of Castile, was his regent, and he commissioned the  
Sainte-Chapelle (SAHN-shu-PEL) to house the Crown of Thorns. This king dispensed justice  
from an oak tree in the forest of Vincennes, and he died from dysentery while he was on the  
Eighth Crusade. For 10 points, name this only King of France to be canonized.  
ANSWER:  Saint Louis  [or  Louis IX ; prompt on  Louis ]  
15. This poet popularized the use of oxymorons in love poetry, such as the metaphor of love as a  
“freezing fire.” This poet wrote about how he was taught to sublimate his erotic love into love of  
God by a woman he first saw on Good Friday. His major book,  Il Canzoniere  (CON-zoh-NAIR- 
ey)  describes his love for a woman named Laura. For 10 points, name this Renaissance Italian  , 
poet who popularized a namesake kind of sonnet.  
ANSWER:  Petrarch  [or Francesco  Petrarca ] 
This is page 10 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
VHSL Scholastic Bowl  
Regional Tournament 2014  
Round 2  
Tiebreaker/replacement questions   
1. This country’s independence was supported by Countess Markievicz (MARK-uh-vitch), and it  
was the destination of arms smuggled by the  SS Libau  (lib-OW). The Piggott forgeries attempted  
to implicate politicians from this modern-day country in the Phoenix Park murders. In this  
country, the General Post Office served as the headquarters for a revolt in which James Connolly  
and Michael Collins participated. For 10 points, name this country where the 1916 Easter Rising  
occurred, an island that experienced a nineteenth-century potato famine.  
ANSWER: Republic of  Ireland  [or  Eire ; or  Airlann ; do not accept “Northern Ireland”]  
2. The title character of this author’s first novel is assisted by the parson Abraham Adams in  
uniting with his beloved Fanny. He responded to Samuel Richardson’s  Pamela  with the mocking  
narratives  Joseph Andrews  and  Shamela.  He also created a foundling who quarrels with Master  
Blifil and eventually marries Sophia Western. For 10 points, name this satirical novelist of  Tom  
Jones.   
ANSWER: Henry  Fielding   
3. This composer wrote a short opera in which Giorgetta opens a garment of clothing to see the  
dead body of her lover Luigi. In an opera by this composer, the protagonist sings about a man  
that pulls his ship into port and walks up a hill to see her. In another opera by this composer, the  
citizens of Peking stay up all night to find out the name of a prince who declares that “none shall  
sleep” in “Nessun dorma.” Another of his operas ends with Rodolfo crying over the death of his  
lover Mimi. For 10 points, name this composer of  Madama Butterfly, Turandot,    and  La Boheme.   
ANSWER: Giacomo  Puccini  [Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria  Puccini ]  
4. This state’s Lake Francis Case was formed by the construction of Fort Randall Dam in 1944.  
This state’s Buffalo County is the poorest in the United States. Another county in this state  
recently voted to change its name to Oglala Lakota; that is its Shannon County, located entirely  
within Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. It is divided into “East River” and “West River,” whose  
largest settlement is Rapid City and features Badlands National Monument and the Black Hills.  
For 10 points, name this Plains state bisected by the Missouri River, home to Mount Rushmore.  
ANSWER:  South Dakota   
5. Relevant quantities for one of these structures can be found by analyzing either meshes or  
nodes. Another method for solving them makes use of linear superposition. One technique for  
analyzing them considers that the sum of currents into a junction is zero, which is a rule named  
for Kirchoff. They can be simplified by combining series or parallel resistors into one. For 10  
points, identify the term for electrical networks that often include voltage sources and resistors.  
ANSWER: electrical  circuit s 
This is page 11 of 11 total pages in this round.  
This is Round 2 of 8 total rounds in the VHSL Regional Tournament 2015 question set.  
© 2015 High School Academic Pyramid Questions  ~  vhslscholasticbowl.com  ~  hsquizbowl.org  
What was the term for the Progressive-friendly domestic program of Theodore Roosevelt, which  
should not be confused with the later “New Deal”?  
ANSWER:  Square Deal   
This is a calculation question. The sine of a second-quadrant angle is four-ninths times the square  
root of two. What is the cosine of that angle?  
ANSWER:  -7/9  [do not accept “7/9” by itself] 
