NASAT 2011 
Round 3 
Tossups 
1. This disease’s vector is responsible for carrying the causative agents of babesiosis and human 
granulocytic anaplasmosis. This disease’s causative agent mutates its VlsE protein to dodge the immune 
system. When this disease reaches the brain, it causes astrogliosis. Its causative agent shares a genus with 
the agent that causes masters disease. A late complication of this disease is an arthritis caused by an 
immune reaction to OspA. Caused by the microaerophile spirochete known as Borrelia burgdorferi, one 
symptom of this disease is a red bullseye rash. This disease, which is carried by Ixodes ticks, is 
characterized by fever and headache. For 10 points, name this disease carried by deer ticks named for a 
Connecticut town. 
ANSWER:  
Lyme 
 disease 
048-11-30-03102 
2. One section of this work produces a picture of a cube in order to show that seeing two phenomena 
implies \"we are really seeing two facts.\" The author compares this work to a ladder, which the reader must 
\"throw away after he has climbed it.\" This work rejects the notion of \"logical constants\" that defined the 
writings of Frege and Russell as its \"fundamental idea,\" and defines the world as \"everything that is the 
case.\" It depicts facts in \"logico-pictorial form.\" It begins with seven fundamental propositions, and claims 
that \"what we cannot speak of we must pass over in silence.\" For 10 points, name this work by Ludwig 
Wittgenstein, whose ideas were redacted in  
Philosophical Investigations 
. 
ANSWER:  
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus 
 [or  
Wittgenstein's  Tractatus 
] 
033-11-30-03103 
3. One character in this work creates a golden statue of a woman to replace his dead wife; that character 
creates an iron plow in order to plow a field of vipers. Near the end of this work, a virgin conceives a 
miraculous child after swallowing a cranberry. An anti-hero in this work murders Untamo and sleeps with 
his own sister, causing her to kill herself, then falls upon his own sword. Various chapters in this work 
describe the smith god Ilmarinen and the wicked Kullervo. This work is written in trochaic tetrameter, and 
it begins by describing the birth of Vainamoinen. For 10 points, name this work of Elias Lonnrot, a 
compilation of Finnish myths. 
ANSWER:  
The  Kalevala 
080-11-30-03104 
4. One writer with this surname, William, edited the first British edition of Whitman’s poems and was the 
chief editor of the literary magazine  
The Germ 
. Another writer with this surname wrote “A Sonnet is a 
moment’s monument” in the introductory poem of his sonnet sequence  
The House of Life 
. This name was 
shared by one writer who penned “In the Bleak Midwinter\" and another who wrote of a woman leaning 
“out from the gold bar of Heaven” in “The Blessed Damozel.” The former author of this name wrote about 
Laura and Lizzie’s encounter with fruit sellers in “Goblin Market.” For 10 points, give this surname shared 
by English poets Dante and Christina. 
ANSWER:  
Rossetti 
015-11-30-03105 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  1 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. In one appearance, this character suggests winning a map game by finding a word which stretches across 
the whole map. This character tells of a clever boy who wins all the marbles at his school by knowing how 
intelligent his opponents are. This character is based on the real life Eugène François Vidocq and uses the 
method of \"ratiocination.\" In one appearance, this character uses newspaper accounts alone to surmise that 
a lone sailor is responsible for the death of Marie Roget. In one story, he determines that confused witness 
accounts about which language was spoken implies that no human language was spoken at all. For 10 
points, name this character who finds “The Purloined Letter” and solves “The Murders in the Rue 
Morgue,” a French detective created by Edgar Allen Poe. 
ANSWER: C. Auguste  
Dupin 
015-11-30-03106 
6. Lakes lying along this river include Milner Lake and Lake Walcott near Burley and the Sawtooth 
National Forrest. The travel of trappers along this river was limited by the lava banks in the area 
surrounding the tributary of Henry’s Fork, as well as fear after a massacre near Pierre’s Hole. 
Contemporary uses of this river include irrigation in the fertile Palouse Hills region and large hydroelectric 
projects like the Ice Harbor Dam located near Pasco where this river ends. This river’s largest tributary is 
the Salmon River, which it meets just after flowing through Hells Canyon. For 10 points, identify this river 
that flows through Wyoming, Idaho and Oregon before becoming the largest tributary to the Columbia 
River. 
ANSWER:  
Snake 
 River 
110-11-30-03107 
7. The exiled Dante Alighieri did in this city after spending his last three years there. Julius Caesar massed 
his forces in this city before crossing the Rubicon. Despite the death of their commander Gaston de Foix, 
the French sacked this city in 1512 after winning a War of the League of Cambrai battle here. After holding 
out for three years, Odoacer was finally killed in the siege of this city by Theodoric. Honorius made this 
city the official Western capital in 402, and served as the capital of Ostrogoth and Byzantine rule of Italy. 
For 10 points, name this city in Northern Italy. 
ANSWER:  
Ravenna 
015-11-30-03108 
8. This experiment was intended to provide data useful in a future experiment to test Charles Sanders 
Peirce's hypothesis that the wavelength of an atomic spectral line could be used as a standard unit of length. 
One of the experimenters suggested using a sandstone-and-mercury support for its critical device after a 
previous attempt had failed in Potsdam. A follow-up to this experiment used that device to detect variations 
due to the Earth's rotation; that experiment by Kennedy and Thordike also failed to observe a fringe shift of 
0.4 as expected. That device used in this experiment included two mirrors and a half-silvered glass plate 
and is known as one namesake's interferometer. For 10 points, name this 1887 experiment that failed to 
prove the existence of a stationary ether. 
ANSWER:  
Michelson-Morley 
 experiment 
023-11-30-03109 
9. In 1982, Damien Hurst painted of one of these animals for his hairdresser girlfriend in a painting that 
was deemed worthless by Sotherby’s. A Jan Steen painting in which a group of them sit on a table is titled 
after their “family.” Louis Wain is best known for painting these animals with large eyes. A bucket of 
water and three of these animals fly through the air in the photograph  
Dali Atomicus 
. A Donatello 
equestrian statue of Erasmo of Narni is usually named for a nickname meaning a “honeyed” one of these 
animals. On the far right of Manet’s  
Olympia 
, a black one of these animals stands on the bed. For 10 points, 
name these animals often depicted in Egyptian tombs. 
ANSWER:  
cat 
s 
015-11-30-03110 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  2 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
10. Lincoln Chafee’s great-uncle, Zechariah, denounced these events as a sad irony due to the religion of 
their perpetrator. These events were checked by the actions of Louis Freeland Post and the case  
Colyer et 
al. v. Skiffington 
. Some targets of these events, which were led by a man nicknamed the “Fighting Quaker,” 
were placed on the ship  
Buford 
, nicknamed the “Soviet Ark.” These events were prompted by the Boston 
Police Strike and a series of letter bombs, which stirred up anger towards activists like Emma Goldman. 
For 10 points, name this series of events during the end of the 1910’s that saw the namesake Attorney 
General order the arrest and deportation of many radical leftists. 
ANSWER:  
Palmer Raids 
 [prompt on  
Red Scare 
] 
052-11-30-03111 
11. In this play two marquises make a secret compact to work together to gain the affection of the title 
character’s love interest. This play ends with Dubois telling the central character that he has lost a lawsuit. 
A sonnet that compares hope to a lady is picked apart by the title character, who offers a street song in a 
response mocking the poet's author, Oronte. Earlier in this play, Philinte disagrees with the protagonist over 
whether people should always say what they think, and the title character eventually turns down the love of 
Celimene to live as a hermit in exile of society. For 10 points, name this Moliere play whose title character, 
Alceste, detests humanity. 
ANSWER:  
The  Misanthrope 
 [or  
Le  Misanthrope 
] 
094-11-30-03112 
12. This scientist identified the first ring chromosome, and also noticed that its structure would be lost at 
meiosis. Along with Blumenschein and Kato, this scientist published a landmark evolutionary study on 
their favorite model organism, and this scientist also characterized the suppressor-mutator or SPM element. 
This biologist discovered the nucleolar-organizing region in an early experiment, and in a more famous 
experiment characterized the behavior of the Ac and Ds elements. This biologist noted that changes in 
aleurone color from generation to generation could be explained by genomic mutability, but her work was 
met with much skepticism. For 10 points, name this biologist who used Zea mays to discover transposons. 
ANSWER: Barbara  
McClintock 
048-11-30-03113 
13. Ralph Kirkpatrick catalogued the complete works of one composer with this last name. Another 
composer with this last name established the allegro-adagio-allegro form of the Italian overture and was a 
key figure in the development of Neapolitan opera. A composer with this last name traveled to Portugal, 
where he became the music teacher of the future Spanish queen Maria Barbara, who inspired the creation 
of hundreds of single-movement binary works. That composer with this last name became famous after his 
death for his 555 keyboard sonatas. For 10 points, give this last name shared by the Baroque Italian 
composers Alessandro and Domenico. 
ANSWER:  
Scarlatti 
004-11-30-03114 
14. Before this view was officially adopted, it was supported by the Spanish monk Guido Terrena. 
Proponents of this religious doctrine point to John 11:49, where God grants the power of prophecy to 
Caiaphus, the judge who condemns Jesus, as proof that God can grant power even to people with moral 
shortcomings. Opponents of this doctrine point to the apparent endorsement of Monothelitism by Honorius 
I. This dogma applies only to statements made ex cathedra about theology. It was first invoked in 1950 
about the Assumption of Mary, but was first articulated in 1870 at the First Vatican Council. For 10 points, 
name this dogma of the Catholic Church, which says that in some circumstances its leader can never be 
wrong. 
ANSWER:  
Papal Infallibility 
021-11-30-03115 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  3 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
15. This method is used to look at labelled protein samples in SILAC and ICAT proteomics. Rhenium 
filaments are used in thermal approaches to this. One way of preparing samples for this technique involves 
small volumes of electrically conductive liquid exposed to an electric field. That can result in cones and 
involves charged particles in aerosol. Analyzers used in this technique include time of flight and 
quadrapole ion traps. While preparation with MALDI and electrospray ionization is useful, this technique 
generally involves the Lorentz and centripetal force and the most abundant particle is the base peak. For 10 
points, name this technique that separates ions based on their ratio of charge to its namesake property. 
ANSWER:  
mass spec 
  troscopy 
107-11-30-03116 
16. One leader of this movement, John Erskine, fought the Duke of Argyll to a draw at the Battle of 
Sheriffmuir. Carolina Nairne's song \"Will Ye Nay Come Back Again\" was written in homage to this 
movement. One of this movement's leaders, George Murray, was responsible for a major victory at 
Prestopans. George Frideric Handel's piece  
See the Conquering Hero Comes 
 was composed in honor of the 
Duke of Cumberland's victory against this group. One of its leaders was defeated at the 1746 Battle of 
Culloden Moor. For 10 points, name this group that attempted to place descendants of James II such as the 
Old Pretender and Bonnie Prince Charlie on the English throne. 
ANSWER:  
Jacobites 
030-11-30-03117 
17. This author wrote about the slave ship dealer Augustus Pemberton becoming a part of Dr. Sartorius's 
experiments on rich, old men in  
The Waterworks 
. The title character of another novel befriends Lulu 
Rosenkrantz and the hunchback accountant Otto “Abbadabba” Berman. He wrote about Oscar the 
Amorous Octopus attacking Norma while she performs an underwater striptease in his novel  
World's Fair 
, 
while the title character of another work witnesses the murder via concrete boots of Bo Weinburg, a 
member of Dutch Schultz's gang. This author wrote a novel in which Younger Brother is infatuated with 
Evelyn Nesbit, the murderer of the architect Stanford White. For 10 points, name this American author of  
Billy Bathgate 
 and  
Ragtime 
. 
ANSWER: (E)dgar (L)awrence  
Doctorow 
030-11-30-03118 
18. One cartoon drawn of this man shows him looking out a window while lamenting, \"there are worse 
places than a front porch!\" This man's actions during one event led to his being jailed as part of the 
Woodstock Eight. One organization co-founded by this man held a pageant in Paterson, New Jersey to 
dramatize the plight of workers during that city's strike. This man later helped found a political party on 
whose ticket he ran five times. This man campaigned for that party on the Red Special train and had his 
party's highest election showing with almost one million votes while running for president from prison. For 
10 points, name this early 1900s perennial Socialist candidate. 
ANSWER: Eugene Victor  
Debs 
081-11-30-03119 
19. Carney Landis studied this psychological phenomenon in an experiment about facial expressions in 
which two-thirds of his participants agreed to decapitate rats. In one experiment about these phenomena, 
students were told they were being given a fictional eye-sight improving drug called Superoxin. The 
Cannon-Bard model replaced the earlier James-Lange theory that argued they occur in response to an 
outside stimulus. Jerome Singer and Stanley Schachter created the two-factor theory of them, while Paul 
Ekman's study of the Fore tribesmen helped him identify six common ones such as disgust. For 10 points, 
name these psychological states including anger and happiness. 
ANSWER:  
emotion 
s 
109-11-30-03120 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  4 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. Though Charles Mingus typically played bass, he switched to this instrument on the  
Oh Yeah 
 album. 
The absence of this instrument is a hallmark of free jazz. The man who invented the \"trumpet-style\" way of 
playing this instrument claimed to have been playing it before meeting Louis Armstrong. That man, Earl 
Hines, replaced Armstrong's wife Lil Hardin on this instrument for the 1928 Hot Five recordings. Willie 
\"The Lion\" Smith, James P. Johnson, and Fats Waller were masters of the \"stride\" style of this instrument. 
A \"player\" version of this instrument played automatically by reading namesake perforated rolls. For 10 
points, name this instrument which often performs solo in ragtime recordings. 
ANSWER:  
piano 
003-11-30-03121 
21. This story takes place in the time when the “land was entirely filled with fairy power.” The narrator 
forces one figure to burn his books and asks that God send misers a true pestilence. The narrator of this 
story talks about Jesus and a Samaritan woman. The Friar complains about the length of the Prologue of 
this tale, which leads the narrator to claim that there is no incubus except the friars who dishonor women. 
The answer to the central question in this tale is “To have mastery over men.” For 10 points, name this 
Canterbury Tale in which a knight must find the answer to the question of \"What is that women most 
desire?\", a story told by Alisoun, who has had five husbands. 
ANSWER: The  
Wife of Bath's 
 Tale 
001-11-30-03122 
22. This battle saw the capture of Psyttaleia by a recently turned general named Aristides. One side 
included the female general Artemisia, which prompted her leader to note that his female general became a 
man and his male generals became women. Accounts differ over whether an early retreat by Adeimantus at 
this battle was out of cowardice or to force the enemy into an enclosed area. This battle was fought after 
one sided retreated following the Battle of Artemisium and included a force led by Eurybiades of Sparta. 
During it, Themistocles led a force of about 270 triremes that opposed a force sent by Xerxes I south of the 
Isthmus of Corinth. For 10 points, name 480 B.C. battle, a decisive Greek naval victory against the 
Persians. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Salamis 
064-11-30-03123 
23. One group named for this man is a six-dimensional non-compact Lie group represented as SO(1,3) [“S 
O of one comma three”] With a Danish physicist, this man independently discovered a relation between 
temperature and index of refraction. This scientist noted that an observer of an object traveling near the 
speed of light would see its length contract, an effect he names with Fitzgerald. This man’s factor is 
proportional to the square root of one minus the square of the relative velocity divided by the square of the 
speed of light. For 10 points, name this Dutch physicist who developed a transform used for observations in 
special relativity and names the magnetic force felt by a moving charge. 
ANSWER: Hendrik  
Lorentz 
064-11-30-03124 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  5 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
NASAT 2011 
Round 3 
Bonuses 
1. The emblem for this religion contains five swastikas and four yin-yang symbols. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this religion, which holds that space aliens have corrupted most of the world’s leaders and that 
the world is due for a “Dharma-ending period.” 
ANSWER:  
Falun Gong 
 [or  
Falun Dafa 
] 
[10] The Falun Gong movement is heavily influenced by this earlier tradition of Chinese mysticism, whose 
foundational text was written by Lao Zi. 
ANSWER:  
Tao 
ism [or  
Dao 
ism] 
[10] Key to Taoism is this concept of \"action through inaction,\" or \"going with the flow\" of the universe. 
ANSWER:  
wuwei 
015-11-30-03201 
2. Name the following about the Hippo pathway, which controls tissue growth in animals. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Several components of the Hippo pathway in humans act as these types of proteins, more famous ones 
of which include BRCA and p53. As opposed to oncogenes, they generally arrest the cell cycle. 
ANSWER:  
tumor suppressor 
s 
[10] The Hippo pathway has an important role in restraining cell proliferation and promoting apoptosis in 
the differentiating type of these cells. It is one of the four types of tissues along with connective, muscle 
and nervous tissue. 
ANSWER:  
epithelial cell 
s [or  
epithelium 
] 
[10] Fat4 is a transmembrane protein in the Hippo pathway that is a proto- type of these proteins. These cell 
adhesion proteins require calcium 2+ ions to function and ensure that cells within tissues are bound 
together. They come in E and N varieties. 
ANSWER:  
cadherin 
s [or  
calcium-dependent adhesion protein 
s] 
066-11-30-03202 
3. Although the Army of the Ten Thousand acquitted themselves well, Cyrus the Younger died during this 
battle, leaving Artaxerxes II king of Persia. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 401 BC battle in between Greek mercenaries and the Persian army. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Cunaxa 
[10] The battle and the march of the ten thousand mercenaries were documented by this Greek historian in 
his  
Anabasis 
. 
ANSWER:  
Xenophon 
[10] Xenophon wrote an embellished biography of this other Persian leader, who made his capital at 
Pasargadae after founding the Persian Empire. 
ANSWER:  
Cyrus the Great 
 [prompt on  
Cyrus 
] 
015-11-30-03203 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  6 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Name these Cavalier poets, for 10 points each. 
[10] In addition to writing plays like  
Bartholomew Fair 
 and  
Volpone 
, this author requested “Drink to me 
only with thine eyes” in his poem “To Celia.” 
ANSWER: Ben  
Jonson 
[10] This author collected many of his poems in  
Hesperides 
, and began one of his poems “Gather ye 
rosebuds while ye may.” 
ANSWER: Robert  
Herrick 
[10] This playwright of  
The Goblins 
 began one of his verses “Why so pale and wan, fond lover?” 
ANSWER: Sir John  
Suckling 
015-11-30-03204 
5. Murals indicate that the rite of “bull-leaping” was important to this culture, which was largely explicated 
by Arthur Evans and whose relics include the Phaistos Disc. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this civilization that inhabited Crete. 
ANSWER:  
Minoans 
[10] Minoan history is divided into four periods based on the use of these structures. The largest of them 
was Knossos. 
ANSWER:  
palace 
s 
[10] Research on the Minoans is held up by the fact that this script that they used has yet to be deciphered. 
ANSWER:  
Linear A 
015-11-30-03205 
6. Ladles hang in the upper right of this painting, as a boy carrying a flask and a melon stand next to the 
title figure. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painting in which an old woman in a white shawl holds a spoon over a pot. 
ANSWER:  
Old Woman Frying Eggs 
 [or  
Old Woman Cooking Eggs 
] 
[10]  
Old Woman Frying Eggs 
 is a painting by this artist, who also showed a nude, reclining female staring 
into a mirror held by a cherub in  
The Rokeby Venus 
. 
ANSWER: Diego  
Velazquez 
[10] Velazquez also created this painting which shows the dwarves Maribarbola and Nicolas Pertusato, 
along with a young Margaret Theresa of Spain. 
ANSWER:  
Las  Meninas 
 [or  
The  Maids of Honor 
] 
088-11-30-03206 
7. This man was one of the anarchists who was tried in the \"Trial of the Thirty,\" and he served in the War 
Ministry and he was the Director of the Bernheim-Jeune Art Gallery from 1906-1925 For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this man whose best known work is a collection of short pieces about the despair of modern 
life, which he published anonymously in the newspaper  
Le Matin 
, titled  
Novels in Three Lines 
. 
ANSWER: Felix  
Feneon 
[10] At the Eighth Impressionist Exhibition in 1886, Feneon described the evolution of a new movement, 
which he called Neo-Impression. Feneon was impressed by this man's  
Sunday Afternoon on La Grande 
Jatte 
, which was displayed at the exhibition. 
ANSWER: Georges-Pierre  
Seurat 
[10] Feneon was an editor at this French newspaper, which has a conservative bent. Its name comes from a 
character created by Beaumarchais. 
ANSWER:  
Le  Figaro 
108-11-30-03207 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  7 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Name these 20th century African leaders, for 10 points each. 
[10] An insurgent against Ian Smith and Rhodesia, this leader of the ZANU-PF has led Zimbabwe since 
1980. 
ANSWER: Robert Gabriel  
Mugabe 
[10] This man served as the first democratically elected president of the Republic of Congo for ten weeks 
until he was deposed and assassinated. 
ANSWER: Patrice Emery  
Lumumba 
[10] This supporter of the Non-Aligned Movement served as the first president of Zambia and remained in 
power until 1991. 
ANSWER: Kenneth David  
Kaunda 
015-11-30-03208 
9. Known as the “father of the string quartet,” this composer’s  
Farewell Symphony 
 called for the musicians 
to stop playing and walk off the stage. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer of over one hundred symphonies, including  
Drumroll 
 and  
Surprise 
. 
ANSWER: Franz Joseph  
Haydn 
[10] Haydn was widely acclaimed for this oratorio, which uses the Book of Genesis and Paradise Lost to 
describe scenes like the emergence of bodies of water and the defeat of Satan. 
ANSWER:  
The  Creation 
 [or  
Die  Schöpfung 
] 
[10] This symphony, which reworks some of his incidental music for a Jean-Francois Regnard play, 
includes a finale in which the musicians realize they have not tuned their instruments and begin doing so on 
stage. 
ANSWER: Symphony No.  
60 
 [or  
the  Distracted 
] 
015-11-30-03209 
10. Aztecs were often buried with a cremated dog, who helped them get here. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this nine-leveled underworld of Aztec myth. 
ANSWER:  
Mictlan 
[10] This feathered serpent, the chief deity of Aztec myth, created mankind from the bones of the dead that 
he retrieved from Mictlan. 
ANSWER:  
Quetzalcoatl 
[10] Quetzalcoatl was aided in that task by this twin brother of his, often depicted as a skeleton. He guides 
the sun on its nightly trip through Mictlan. 
ANSWER:  
Xolotl 
079-11-30-03210 
11. During the Revolutionary War, this state was the site of the Battle of King’s Mountain and Pyle’s 
Massacre. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this state whose governor William Tryon prompted a protest by building a massive palace at 
New Bern. 
ANSWER:  
North Carolina 
[10] That 1768-1771 North Carolina uprising was known by this name, and ended when the militia 
defeated its namesake movement at Alamance Creek. 
ANSWER: War of the  
Regulation 
 [or  
Regulator 
 War; accept equivalents] 
[10] Forces calling themselves regulators also fought this 1787 rebellion in western Massachusetts that 
revealed some weaknesses in the Articles of the Confederation. 
ANSWER:  
Shays 
’ Rebellion 
015-11-30-03211 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  8 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
12. She wrote “come and see my shining palace built upon the sand!” in “Second Fig.” For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this American poet of  
The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver 
 and  
A Few Figs from Thistles 
. 
ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent  
Millay 
[10] Millay’s most famous verse concerns on of these objects that “burns at both ends” and “will not last 
the night.” 
ANSWER:  
candle 
[10] Millay wrote “East and West will pinch the heart that can not keep them pushed apart” in this poem, 
which built her reputation and which begins “All I could see from where I stood was three long mountains 
and a wood.” 
ANSWER: “ 
Renascence 
” 
015-11-30-03212 
13. This object and its companions are bridged by a stream that is a notable example of a high velocity 
cloud. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this irregular dwarf galaxy, the third closest galaxy to the Milky Way, and which contains the 
Tarantula Nebula. 
ANSWER:  arge  agellanic  loud 
L M C 
[10] This relatively recent type II supernova of Sanduleak occured in the LMC. 
ANSWER: SN  
1987A 
[10] Because the LMC contains many of these standard candles, they are often used to measure its distance 
from Earth. A systematic uncertainty in these object's period-luminosity relationship is the effect of 
metallicity. 
ANSWER:  
Cepheid variable 
s 
066-11-30-03213 
14. Answer some questions about formal syntax, for 10 points each. 
[10] This syntactician revised his X-bar theory of binary syntax into the Minimalist program. He also 
believes transformations are an innate part of universal grammar and publishes left-wing tracts at MIT. 
ANSWER: Avram Noam  
Chomsky 
[10] In the X-bar model of English syntax, this necessary component of a phrase is modified afterwards by 
complements and beforehand by up to one specifier. Examples include the word “go” in the verb phrase 
“never go shopping.” 
ANSWER:  
head 
 word [accept  
head 
 phrase] 
[10] Chomsky used this five-word nonsense sentence in  
Syntactic Structures 
 to demonstrate that syntax is 
independent of meaning. 
ANSWER: \" 
colorless green ideas sleep furiously 
\" 
104-11-30-03214 
15. In this novel, Boris kills himself during an initiation into a student secret society when the pistol they 
give him is accidentally is with real bullets. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which Edouard plans to write a book of the same name and has an affair with 
Oliver, whose younger brother George gets caught up in a criminal ring. 
ANSWER:  
The  Counterfeiters 
 [or  
Les  Faux-monnayeurs 
] 
[10] This 20th century French author of  
 The Counterfeiters 
 wrote about shocking adventures of Michel in  
The Immoralist 
. 
ANSWER: Andre  
Gide 
[10] Gide wrote an essay for the collection  
 The God That Failed 
, which also featured an essay this author 
who wrote about Nicholas Rubashov's imprisonment in  
Darkness at Noon 
. 
ANSWER: Arthur  
Koestler 
015-11-30-03215 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  9 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
16. This man’s novel  
The Last Puritan 
 was a surprise best seller. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Spanish American philosopher who wrote that “Those who cannot remember the past are 
condemned to repeat it” in  
The Life of Reason 
. 
ANSWER: George  
Santayana 
[10] In the title of one work, Santayana paired this philosophy with “animal faith.” Aenesidemus founded 
the ancient school of this philosophy known as Pyrrhonism. 
ANSWER:  
skepticism 
[10] While at Harvard, Santyana argued that understanding why something is beautiful enables an 
understanding of the separation between the transitory and the universal in this book on aesthetics. 
ANSWER:  
The  Sense of Beauty 
015-11-30-03216 
17. The author of this novel excerpted a court martial scene as the play  
Clevinger’s Trial 
. For 10 points 
each: 
[10] Name this Joseph Heller novel in which Yossarian serves in the U.S. Air Force on the island of 
Pianosa. 
ANSWER:  
Catch-22 
[10] This character from  
Catch-22 
 is a profiteer who tries to solve his cotton glut by covering cotton in 
chocolate and selling it in the mess hall. 
ANSWER:  
Milo 
 Minderbinder [or Milo  
Minderbinder 
] 
[10] This man is Yossarian's navigator and often appears smoking a pipe. He rapes the peasant girl Michela 
rather than buying a prostitute because he \"has never had to pay for it.\" 
ANSWER: Captain  
Aardvark 
 [or  
Aarfy 
] 
015-11-30-03217 
18. This is also known as the hard sphere radius. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this radius used to model the volume an atom or molecule takes up. Its Dutch namesake also 
names an equation of state. 
ANSWER:  
van der Waals 
 radius 
[10] This special case of the Mie potential models interactions between molecules uses a negative twelth 
term for repulsive forces and a negative sixth power for attractive London dispersion forces. 
ANSWER:  
Lennard-Jones 
 potential 
[10] This function denoted g(r) (g of r) gives the probability of finding a molecule in a distance r from 
another molecule. 
ANSWER:  
radial distribution function 
 [or  
pair correlation function 
] 
001-11-30-03218 
19. Name these London buildings for 10 points each: 
[10] This cathedral designed by Christopher Wren after the Great Fire contains a “whispering gallery” and 
a bell known as “Great Tom.” 
ANSWER:  
St. Paul 
’s Cathedral 
[10] This name is shared by a 1923 stadium known for its “twin towers” and a 2007 stadium which will 
host the soccer finals in the 2012 Olympics. 
ANSWER:  
Wembley 
 Stadium 
[10] Instead of building the Millennium Tower at the site of the Baltic Exchange at 30 St. Mary Axe, 
Norman Foster designed this building, which has been called “the towering innuendo” and is named for its 
resemblance to a vegetable. 
ANSWER:  
Gherkin 
015-11-30-03219 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  10 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
20. On Earth, the gravitational type of this is equal to mass time 9.8 meters per second squared times 
height. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this type of energy that is dependent on configuration or position. 
ANSWER:  
potential 
 energy 
[10] This theorem states that for a stable, self-gravitating aggregation of objects, the gravitational potential 
energy is twice kinetic energy. 
ANSWER:  
virial 
 theorem 
[10] Traditionally, in a force field, this is the location where potential energy is defined as zero. 
ANSWER:  
infinity 
 [accept any answer indicating a non finite distance away] 
001-11-30-03220 
21. This author riffed on the Antony and Cleopatra story in his  
All for Love 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Restoration poet and playwright of the allegorical  
Absalom and Achitophel 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Dryden 
[10] Dryden savaged fellow poet Thomas Shadwell in this poem, which begins “All humane things are 
subject to decay.” 
ANSWER: \" 
Mac Flecknoe 
\" 
[10] Dryden wrote his allegory  
The Hind and the Panther 
 after converting from this sect to Catholicism. A 
major shift in T. S. Eliot’s poetry occurred after he converted to this sect. 
ANSWER:  
Anglican 
ism [or  
Church of England 
] 
015-11-30-03221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
NASAT 2011     Round 3     Page  11 of 11 
© 2011 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
