VHSL Regular Season 
Round 23 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. An event in this city in 1968 led to the arrest of Luis Echeverria Alvarez in 2006. That event in this city was named the 
Tlatelolco Massacre. In 1913, this city was the site of The Ten Tragic Days during its country's civil war. This city was captured 
by the forces of Augustin Iturbide in 1821. In 1520, La Noche Triste occurred at the location of this present-day city and resulted 
in a major defeat for Hernan Cortez. For 10 points, name this city that is located on the site of the Aztec capital Tenochitlan. 
ANSWER:   
Mexico City 
 [or  
Ciudad de Mexico 
] 
030-09-2-08101 
2. In one of this composer's symphonies, the second part of the minuet is the same as the first part played in reverse, leading to its 
nickname  
The Palindrome. 
 One other work of this composer, whose works were catalogued by Anthony van Hoboken, features a 
persistent ticking rhythm, while in another, the performers depart the stage in the fourth movement. The second movement of 
another features a sudden fortissimo. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the  
Clock Farewell Surprise 
,  ,  , and over a 
hundred other symphonies.  
ANSWER: Franz Joseph  
Haydn 
025-09-2-08102 
3. This Supreme Court case overturned  
Betts v. Brady 
, which established that a certain law only applied to capital cases. Abe 
Fortas represented the defendant in this case. The majority opinion by Hugo Black in this case agreed that the defendant's sixth 
amendment rights had been violated.  Like  
Miranda v. Arizona 
, this case was heard by the Earl Warren court and helped to reform 
the criminal justice system. For 10 points, name this Supreme Court case that established a defendant's right to be provided with 
an attorney. 
ANSWER:   
Gideon  v. Wainwright 
 [or  
Wainwright v.  Gideon 
] 
028-09-2-08103 
4. One poem by this author compares the night, stars, and the sun to the faces, eyes, and souls of \"My People.\" This man writes 
that life is \"no crystal stair\" in his poem \"Mother to Son.\" Another of his poems describes a scene \"down on Lenox Avenue the 
other night\" of a man \"droning a drowsy syncopated tune.\" This describes building a hut near the Congo and raising the pyramids 
above the Nile in a poem that mentions Abraham Lincoln's journey down the Mississippi to New Orleans. For 10 points, name this 
author of \"The Weary Blues\" and \"The Negro Speaks of Rivers,\" a leader of the Harlem Renaissance. 
ANSWER:    James Mercer Langston  
Hughes 
036-09-2-08104 
5. The book named for this man includes the statement that \"Assyria [is] the rod of my anger\" because Tiglath-Pileser III was 
leading an invasion westward. Along with Micah, he discussed how nations will beat their swords into plowshares and not take up 
arms against each other in the second chapter of his book. The Septuagint translation of his prophesy claims a virgin will 
\"conceive and bear a son\" who was called Immanuel. For 10 points, name this prophet who warned Israel that its immorality 
would lead to an invasion, whose namesake book is found between the  
Song of Songs 
 and  
Jeremiah 
. 
ANSWER:   
Isaiah 
 [or  
Isaias 
; or  
Yesha’yahu 
] 
027-09-2-08105 
6. Abnormal alpha-synuclein (AL-fuh-sin-NEW-clee-in) proteins known as Lewy bodies were first discovered in patients 
suffering from this disease. The severity of this disease is measured from one to five on the Hoehn and Yahr Scale. This disease is 
caused by damage to the pars compacta of the substantia nigra, which is part of the basal ganglia. This disease results in less active 
dopamine pathways in the brain, which is why it is sometimes treated with L-dopa. For 10 points, name this neural disease that 
results in a loss of motor skill, often causing tremor and rigidity in muscles. 
ANSWER:   
Parkinson 
's Disease 
036-09-2-08106 
7. The Treaty of Kiel ceded this country to Sweden. This country's king Harold Hardrada lost the Battle of Stamford Bridge. This 
country was traditionally ruled by kings named Haakon. This nation was converted to Christianity under its king St. Olaf. During 
World War II, this country was led by the Nazi collaborator Vidkun Quisling. For 10 points, name this Scandinavian country 
whose capital is Oslo. 
ANSWER:  Kingdom of  
Norway 
 [or Kongeriket  
Norge 
] 
004-09-2-08107 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 23     Page  1 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. Richard Dawkins created an \"extended\" version of this concept to include manifestations of behavior, such as beaver dams. 
Silent mutations are called \"silent\" because they do not alter this feature. Heterozygous crosses display a three to one ratio for this 
quality, which is part of a distinction advanced by Wilhelm Johannsen. For 10 points, name this term for the physical 
manifestation of a genetic sequence, the complement to an organism's genotype. 
ANSWER:   
phenotype 
022-09-2-08108 
9. Nanny worries that this novel's protagonist will become a \"mule\" after observing a kiss with Johnny Taylor. The protagonist of 
this novel is the daughter of Leafy, and is unsatisfied with her marriage to Logan Killicks. The protagonist of this novel runs away 
with Jody Starks, who becomes the mayor of Eatonville. The protagonist of this novel falls in love with a man with whom she 
survives a hurricane, though that man, Tea Cake, later becomes infected with rabies. For 10 points, name this work in which Tea 
Cake is shot by Janie Crawford, a novel by Zora Neale Hurston. 
ANSWER:    
Their Eyes Were Watching God 
023-09-2-08109 
10. Hesiod's  
Theogony 
 begins by noting that this group bathes in the Permessus River, which flows from Mount Helicon, a 
mountain sacred to this group. Hyacinth was the son of one member of this group, and another member of this group was the 
mother of the Sirens. In addition to Clio and Melpomene, this group included Urania, whose dominion was astronomy, and Erato, 
who governed love poetry. These sisters were all daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne (nuh-MOSS-in-ee). For 10 points, give the 
collective name of this group of nine goddesses who inspired man's creation of the arts. 
ANSWER:  
Muse 
s 
003-09-2-08110 
11. This man's \"The Last Instructions to a Painter\" is a verse satire on the Dutch War, and he wrote extended conceits in such lyric 
poems as \"A Dialogue between Body and Soul.\" Another poem by this author imagines finding rubies by the Ganges, and claims 
that the speaker's \"vegetable love\" will grow \"vaster than empires, and more slow.\" That poem by this author states that \"I always 
hear time's winged chariot drawing near\" in urging a woman to consummate her love. For 10 points, which metaphysical poet 
wished for \"world enough and time\" in his poem \"To His Coy Mistress?\" 
ANSWER:   Andrew  
Marvell 
045-09-2-08111 
12. A 2009 exhibition of armor, weaponry, and clothing at the Tower of London celebrated the 500th anniversary of this 
monarch's ascension to the throne. This ruler is praised as one of the founders of the British navy. The destruction of churches and 
monasteries from 1536 until 1541 remains one of this man's more infamous acts. Thomas More was beheaded for siding with the 
Pope on the question of this king's first marriage. For 10 points, who was this second Tudor king, who was the father of both Mary 
I and Elizabeth I? 
ANSWER:    
Henry VIII 
 of England 
045-09-2-08112 
13. His poems include \"Bad Roads in Spring,\" which recounts his abduction by partisans, and he wrote \"nothing can avert the final 
curtain's fall\" in his poem \"Hamlet.\" This character was held captive by the cocaine-addicted Liberius and the Forest Brotherhood. 
At the end of the work in which he appears, this character's brother Evgraf agrees to take care of this character's daughter Tania. 
For 10 points, name this lover of Lara and a physician, a character created by Boris Pasternak. 
ANSWER:  Dr. Yuri  
Zhivago 
 [accept Boris  
Pasternak 
 before \"This character.\"] 
030-09-2-08113 
14. Juan Prim led a revolution against one queen of this name, who was opposed by the Carlists. Another queen of this name was 
the mother of Juana the Mad and issued the Alhambra Decree. The first queen of this name unified her kingdom of Castile with 
Aragon by marrying her husband. That queen of this name ruled Spain from 1474 to 1504. For 10 points, give this name of the 
Spanish queen who financed Columbus's expedition to the New World along with her husband Ferdinand. 
ANSWER:   
Isabella 
004-09-2-08114 
15. This nation contains the southern portion of the La Amistad International Peace Park, in the Cordillera de Talamanca. Punta 
Mariato is the southernmost point of this nation, on the Azuero Peninsula which is bound by the Pacific Ocean and a gulf of the 
same name as this nation. The Chagres River flows from this nation's Gatun Lake, and the Darien Gap is in the eastern portion of 
this nation and is the only break in the Pan-American  Highway. For 10 points, name this nation on an isthmus, southeast of Costa 
Rica and north of Colombia and home to a canal connecting two oceans. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Panama 
036-09-2-08115 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 23     Page  2 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 23 
Directed Round 
1A. The namesake animal of what thought experiment dies if a Geiger counter detects the presence of radioactive decay, and can 
thus be considered both alive and dead? 
ANSWER:   
Schrodinger's Cat 
1B. What Russian author wrote the novels  
Crime and Punishment 
 and  
The Brothers Karamazov 
? 
ANSWER:  Fyodor  
Dostoyevsky 
2A. What Italian word meaning \"soon\" or \"quickly\" denotes a tempo marking faster than allegro? 
ANSWER:   
presto 
2B. It is measured on a scale from zero to one. Give the term for an object's reflectivity of the sun's radiation. 
ANSWER:   
albedo 
3A. What political party, led by Yukio Hatoyama, defeated the long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party in Japan's 2009 elections? 
ANSWER:   
Democratic Party of Japan 
 [or  
DPJ 
] 
3B. Give the term for a short comment that a character in a play speaks to the audience, which is not heard by the other characters 
in the play. 
ANSWER:   
aside 
4A. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the median of the following numbers: 35, 27, 51, 44, 49, 52, 31, 12, and 44. 
ANSWER:      
44 
4B. This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the slope of a line perpendicular to the line y = 3x + 4? 
ANSWER:      
-1/3 
5A. Name the social critic who argued that American society was becoming dominated by the interlocking \"higher circles\" of 
military, political, and economic elites in his book  
The Power Elite 
. 
ANSWER:  Charles Wright  
Mills 
5B. Barack Obama nominated what federal judge on the Second Circuit Court of Appeals to replace David Souter on the Supreme 
Court? 
ANSWER:  Sonia  
Sotomayor 
6A. This is a 20-second calculation question. How many radians are in a 75 degree angle? 
ANSWER:      
5/12 
 radians 
6B. This is a 20-second calculation question. Convert the binary numbers 1111, 1010, 1100, and 1110 to hexadecimal. Give your 
answers in order. 
ANSWER:      
FACE 
 [or  
F, A, C, E 
] 
7A. Name the stage of the cell cycle that occurs immediately after mitosis, in which the cytoplasm is split between two daughter 
cells. 
ANSWER:  
cytokinesis 
7B. What second-largest saltwater lake in the United States is located just north of New Orleans in Louisiana? 
ANSWER:  Lake  
Pontchartrain 
8A. Name the painting by Sandro Botticelli that portrays Flora strewing flowers next to the three Graces, who dance next to 
Mercury in front of a forest. 
ANSWER:   
Primavera 
8B. What British chemist proposed the first atomic theory of chemistry, as well as a namesake law of partial pressures? 
ANSWER:  John  
Dalton 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 23     Page  3 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9A. This is a 30-second calculation question. Identify ALL the x-intercepts of the following function: y = x^3 - 3x^2 + 2x. 
ANSWER:      
x = 0, x = 1, and x = 2 
 [or any answer with those three answers in any order; or  
(0,0), (1,0), and (2,0) 
; or any 
answer with those three points in any order] 
9B. This is a 30-second calculation question. Timmy’s basketball team plays 20 games in the season. They start off on a hot streak 
and win the first 5 games, but then lose their star player and lose the next 4. If the team must win at least 70% of their games to 
qualify for the state tournament, how many of the remaining games must they win? 
ANSWER:      
9 
10A. What actor starred as Tyler Durden in  
Fight Club 
 and played the title role in  
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button 
? 
ANSWER:  Brad  
Pitt 
10B. This wide receiver successfully kicked extra points for the Bengals in the 2009 NFL preseason. Name the wide receiver who 
changed his last name from Johnson to the Spanish word for his uniform number. 
ANSWER:  Chad  
Ochocinco 
004-09-2-08116 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 23     Page  4 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 23 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. At the age of 17, this character tries to adopt his ten year old niece when he is seeking a medicine for an illness. When he is 26, 
this character puts himself into self-imposed exile, where he dreams that his dead father tells him to go out to sea. This performer 
of the \"Waves of the Blue Sea\" dance prays to Rokujo's ghost so that his wife will get better. This characters accepts a request to 
marry Nyosan so the former Emperor can become a Buddhist Monk. He also marries Princess Aoi. For 10 points, name this 
Japanese prince whose \"Tale\" titles a work by Lady Murasaki. 
ANSWER:   Prince  
Genji 
 [accept  
The Tale of  Genji 
; accept  
Genji  Monogatari 
] 
033-09-2-08117 
2. In one song by this group, the male vocalist declares \"you know you got me by a string, baby,\" and in another, the singer 
describes how the titular objects \"drive these brothers crazy.\" This group's album  
Monkey Business 
 included \"Don't Phunk with 
my Heart.\" A more recent song by this group features the line \"you're so 2000 and late,\" and another of their songs requests \"some 
guidance from above\" before asking the titular question. For 10 points, name this hip-hop group whose members include will.i.am 
and Fergie, which is known for songs such as \"Boom Boom Pow,\" \"My Humps,\" and \"Where is the Love?\" 
ANSWER:    
Black Eyed Peas 
038-09-2-08118 
3. All metals have values for this quantity near 25 Joules per mole Kelvin by the Law of Dulong and Petit. If the \"molar\" type of 
this quantity is used, then it is multiplied by the number of moles and the change in temperature to find the heat energy. For water, 
it is defined as one calorie per gram degree Celsius, which is higher than that for any other substance. For 10 points, name this 
quantity that equals the amount of heat needed to raise a unit of mass of a substance by one degree. 
ANSWER:  
specific heat 
 capacity [accept  
molar heat capacity 
 until \"molar\"; prompt on  
heat capacity 
] 
003-09-2-08119 
4. This author wrote  
Nana 
 as part of his twenty-volume series titled  
Les Rougon-Macquart 
. That series contains this author's novel 
about a coal mining strike called  
Germinal 
. This author is best-known for an letter to Felix Faure published in Georges 
Clemenceau's newspaper. That letter by this author states that an act of espionage was committed by Major Esterhazy and that 
anti-Semitism resulted in the banishment to Devil's Island. For 10 points, name this French author who defended Alfred Dreyfus 
in his letter  
J'Accuse 
.  
ANSWER:    Émile Édouard Charles Antoine  
Zola 
020-09-2-08120 
5. Paul Gauguin painted this artist painting sunflowers, which were the first of his ideas for decorating the Yellow House. This 
artist painted women in blue working under a yellow sky in  
The Red Vineyard 
, and showed a billiards table in a red room in 
another painting. He painted a peasant family eating under an oil lamp, and this artist of  
The Night Café 
 also painted swirls in his 
scene of the sky above Saint-Remy. For 10 points, name this Post-Impressionist painter of  
The Potato Eaters 
 and  
Starry Night 
, 
who cut off one of his own ears. 
ANSWER:  Vincent  
Van Gogh 
036-09-2-08121 
6. The Morley-Vine-Matthews Hypothesis cited geomagnetic reversals in igneous rock as proof of this phenomenon. This 
phenomenon generally involves passive upwelling from the mantle and is not found at active margins or convergent boundaries. 
This phenomenon was first proposed by Harry Hess, and it is currently explained by convection in the asthenosphere. For 10 
points, name this occurrence in which tectonic plates are formed at mid-ocean ridges, notably occurring at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. 
ANSWER:  
Seafloor Spreading 
036-09-2-08122 
7. Bayard Rustin was responsible for organizing the logistics of this event. John Lewis, the youngest person to speak at this event, 
controversially criticized John F. Kennedy in his speech. The most famous speech given at this event mentioned coming to this 
event's location to \"cash a check\" and expressed hope that \"this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed\". For 
10 points, name this 1963 protest rally \"for Jobs and Freedom\" that featured Martin Luther King's \"I Have a Dream\" speech, 
which took place at the Lincoln Memorial. 
ANSWER:  the 1963  
March on Washington 
 for Jobs and Freedom 
038-09-2-08123 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 23     Page  5 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. This man's book  
Boston 
 examined the Sacco and Vanzetti case. The purposeful creation of a financial panic on Wall Street by 
Steel Trust head Dan Waterman is the subject of this man's novel  
The Money Changers 
. The protagonist goes hunting with 
Hermann Goering in this man's novel  
Dragon's Teeth 
, which one of this author's many books that feature Lanny Budd. This 
author's novel  
Oil! 
 was the basis for the film  
There Will Be Blood 
. This man also wrote a novel about Jurgis Rudkus' experiences 
in the Chicago meatpacking industry. For 10 points, name this author of  
The Jungle 
. 
ANSWER:   Upton Beall  
Sinclair 
030-09-2-08124 
9. The conservation of this quantity is due to the translational invariance of the Lagrangian, according to Noether's theorem. The 
De Broglie wavelength of a particle is equal to Planck's constant divided by this quantity for the particle.  Heisenberg's 
Uncertainty Principle was originally given in terms of errors in position and this quantity. This quantity is conserved in both 
inelastic and elastic collisions, and the change in this quantity is equal to force times time, also known as impulse. For 10 points, 
name this quantity symbolized  , equal to mass times velocity. 
p 
ANSWER:  linear  
momentum 
028-09-2-08125 
10. The Macartney Embassy was a British trade negotiation team sent to this country. One leader of this country was advised by 
Vinegar Joe Stillwater. Clair Chennault led the small air force group called the Flying Tigers in this country. The Marco Polo 
Bridge incident in this country led to a war that is sometimes identified as the first stage of World War II. For 10 points, name this 
country which suffered through the Rape of Nanking and was led by Chiang Kai-shek. 
ANSWER:  People's Republic of  
China 
 [or  
Zhonghua 
 Renmin Gongheguo; or  
PRC 
] 
015-09-2-08126 
11. One theorem named for this man says that if a prime p divides \"a times b,\" then either p divides a or p divides b, and this man 
proved that there are infinitely many primes. The solutions predicted by the Chinese Remainder Theorem can be found using the 
extended form of this man's namesake algorithm, which finds the greatest common divisor of two numbers. Hyperbolic 
geometries arise when a statement of this man does not hold; that statement is known as his fifth postulate, or parallel postulate.  
For 10 points, name this Greek mathematician who created a treatise on geometry, the  
Elements 
. 
ANSWER:   
Euclid 
028-09-2-08127 
12. Major theories in this discipline include structural functionalism and symbolic interactionism. This discipline studies mores 
[mor-ays] and folkways, and an early thinker in this discipline developed the concept of anomie. A classic study in this field 
analyzed the way Calvinism led to the development of the modern economic system, and is titled The Protestant Ethic and the 
Spirit of Capitalism. For 10 points, name this social science whose classic thinkers include Emile Durkheim and Max Weber, the 
study of human society. 
ANSWER:  
sociology 
004-09-2-08128 
13. This man proved that the halting problem is not generally solvable except in cases of fewer than four states, and Tibor Rado 
developed a type of an object named for him that finds the most work one can do, the busy beaver. This man names a thesis about 
the equivalence of the lambda calculus and another system along with Church. For 10 points, name this British computer scientist 
who helped break the Enigma cipher and whose namesake test is a benchmark for artificial intelligence and whose namesake 
machines are abstracted computers. 
ANSWER: Alan  
Turing 
022-09-2-08129 
14. One of this man's novels involves a murder mystery surrounding a serial killer who draws elephants on his victims stomachs. 
In addition to  
A Son of the Circus 
, this author wrote a novel about Patrick Wallingford, a reporter for the \"disaster network\" who 
lost his hand to a circus lion,  
The Fourth Hand 
. The son of the feminist Jenny Fields is the title character of another novels, and 
Dr. Wilbur Larch runs St. Cloud's orphanage in another of his works. For 10 points, name this author of <The World According to 
Garp and  
The Cider House Rules 
. 
ANSWER: John  
Irving 
030-09-2-08130 
15. This President attempted to intervene with the government of Egypt to save Israeli spies behind the Lavon affair. In Operation 
Blue Bat, this man sent 15,000 troops to Lebanon as part of his namesake \"doctrine\" to intervene in countries threatened by 
Communism. This President oversaw the creation of the Interstate Highway System. This man forced the Arkansas National guard 
to integrate the Little Rock Nine. Before becoming president, this man served as the first Supreme Commander of NATO. For 10 
points, name this World War II general and president of the U.S. 
ANSWER:  Dwight David  
Eisenhower 
 [or Ike  
Eisenhower 
] 
015-09-2-08131 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 23     Page  6 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
VHSL Regular Season 
Round 23 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. The reproduction of these organisms is often undertaken by releasing diaspores, usually either in the soredia or isidia form.  
They were previously placed in the phylum mycophycophyta, and they are typically classified by growth forms such as \"crustose,\" 
\"filamentous,\" and \"fruticose.\"  They can subsist in extreme environments, but their extreme susceptibility to pollution makes 
them useful gauges of air quality and ozone depletion.  One of them known as  
R. tinctoria 
 is boiled to yield the pH indicator 
litmus.  For 10 points, name these organisms that are symbiotic combinations of a fungus and an alga. 
ANSWER:  
lichen 
s 
026-09-2-08132 
2. When this man died in a lab filled with hydrogen cyanide, the fireman appearing on the scene allegedly asked, \"Does anyone 
know who this guy is?\". That lab was at Berkeley, where this man, along with his student Harold Urey, discovered deuterium. 
This man also coined the term \"photon\" and hypothesized the covalent bond. A diagram named after this man uses lines to 
represent those bonds and dots to represent free electrons. For 10 points, name this American chemist with namesake electron dot 
structures. 
ANSWER: Gilbert Newton  
Lewis 
003-09-2-08133 
3. One character in this novel buys a flower pot and a table that used to be owned by Mortimer. Mr. Quinian is present when the 
title character of this novel meets a man that eventually moves to Australia with Little Em'ly. Another character in this novel ends 
up praising prison after being exposed by Mr. Micawber. Betsey Trotwood is the aunt of this novel's protagonist, who used to love 
Dora Spenlow. The mother of title character of this novel marries the abusive Edward Murdstone. For 10 points, name this 
Dickens novel featuring Uriah Heep, titled after Agnes Wickfield's husband. 
ANSWER:    
David Copperfield 
 [accept  
The Personal History, Adventures, Experience and Observation of  David Copperfield  the 
Younger of Blunderstone Rookery (which he never meant to publish on any account) 
] 
033-09-2-08134 
4. In one of this composer's works, an opening series of timpani beats is followed by brass instruments repeatedly playing a theme 
beginning with the notes B-flat, F, and a higher B-flat. This composer included the movements \"Buckaroo Holiday,\" \"Corral 
Nocturne,\" and \"Hoedown\" in his ballet Rodeo. Another of his works includes variations on the Shaker hymn \"Simple Gifts\" and 
is named for a mountain chain in the eastern United States. For 10 points, name this American composer of Fanfare for the 
Common Man and Appalachain Spring. 
ANSWER: Aaron  
Copland 
004-09-2-08135 
5. This thinker wrote that the point of philosophy is not to interpret the world but to change it in his  
Theses on Feuerbach 
. This 
author of  
The Critique of the Gotha Program 
 claims that all history is the \"history of class struggles\" in a work that begins by 
stating that a \"spectre is haunting Europe\". For 10 points, name this German philosopher who exclaimed \"workers of the world, 
unite!\" in  
Das Kapital 
 and, with Fredrick Engels, wrote  
The Communist Manifesto 
. 
ANSWER:  Karl  
Marx 
005-09-2-08136 
VHSL Regular Season     Round 23     Page  7 of 7 
© 2009 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
