National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 11 
Tossups 
1. One massacre in this war is commonly called the Great Swamp Fight. This war broke out with fighting 
in Swansea after the execution of the alleged murderers of John Sassamon. The forces of one side in this 
war were led by governor Josiah Winslow. The other side of this conflict was supported by forces of 
Nipmucks and Narragansetts. A soldier under Benjamin Church killed this war's namesake at Mount Hope. 
For 10 points, name this late seventeenth century conflict in New England, in which colonists fought 
against the namesake leader of the Wampanoag. 
ANSWER:  
King Philip's 
 War [or  
Metacom 
et's War; or equivalent terms] 
023-09-12-11102 
2. One character in this play has a hallucination of a book whose pages contain a great flaming Aleph. That 
character is treated by a nurse named Belize, who joins several of its main characters at the Bethesda 
Fountain in its epilogue. A being known as the Continental Principality informs one character in this play 
that God left heaven in 1908 and orders humanity to stop changing. In the second part of this play, Ethel 
Rosenberg sings the Kaddish along with Louis Ironson, and Joe Pitt reveals that he is gay to his mentor 
Roy Cohn, who becomes God’s attorney after dying of AIDS. For 10 points, name this play divided into 
parts called  
Millennium Approaches 
 and  
Perestroika 
 and written by Tony Kushner. 
ANSWER:  
Angels in America 
015-09-12-11103 
3. In April of 2009, a political leader of this country was shot by gunmen while his car was at a petrol 
station, with the shooting potentially blamed on this country’s military. In that same month, this country 
saw mass anti-government protests which disrupted this country’s New Year celebrations. It currently sees 
a political struggle between groups known as the “red shirts” and “yellow shirts.” It earlier saw the 
People’s Power Party opposed by the People’s Alliance for Democracy, while now the United Front of 
Democracy Against Dictatorship opposes the government of its current prime minister, Abhisit Vejjajiva. 
For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian country ruled by the House of Chakri which has its capital at 
Bangkok. 
ANSWER:  
Thailand 
052-09-12-11104 
4. A quantum electrodynamical vacuum can change this property through the spontaneous creation of 
virtual electron-positron pairs. The magnitude of change in this due to traversing a diamagnetic material is 
given by the path length times the magnetic field times the Verdet constant; that change in the angle of this 
is known as Faraday rotation. This property is described by the Jones calculus. The transmission coefficient 
for an item that imparts this property is equal to the cosine squared of a characteristic angle according to 
Malus' law. The simplest types of this are circular and linear. For 10 points, name this property of light 
waves that describes the direction that fields comprising the light oscillate in and that can be imparted a 
filer. 
ANSWER:  
polarization 
 [accept word forms like  
polarized 
 or  
polarizing 
] 
059-09-12-11105 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  1 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
5. This case overturned an earlier decision concerning a Colorado man who was illegally performing 
abortions. That case was  
Wolf v. Colorado 
. Justice Clark wrote the majority opinion for this case, which 
was argued for by attorney A. L. Kearns. This case was prompted when Carl Delau received a tip from Don 
King. That tip led to a woman being suspected of harboring a bombing fugitive, resulting in a raid by 
members of the Cleveland Police Department. That raid instead found \"lewd and lascivious books, pictures, 
and photographs.\" For 10 points, name this 1961 Supreme Court case concerning the use of illegally 
obtained evidence in criminal trials. 
ANSWER:  
Mapp  v. Ohio 
 [accept either order] 
064-09-12-11106 
6. John Leech drew members of this group wearing Victorian clothing in a satirical 1850s drawing that 
implicitly places them in a pub. In another painting, a man on horseback and a naked man duel while a 
member of this group lies at the bottom. Besides that work by Pablo Picasso, a sculpture showing one 
member of this group also depicts a crouching bearded man lifting his hand to his face with a shocked 
expression. In two 1630s paintings of this group by the same artist, a man in a red robe stands to the upper 
left and makes a hand signal to begin the title action. This group’s \"intervention\" to prevent war was 
depicted by Jacques-Louis David. Giambologna and Nicolas Poussin painted this group in their role as 
victims. For 10 points, name this female group whose \"rape\" by the Romans is a frequent artistic subject. 
ANSWER: the  
Sabine women 
 [prompt on  
Sabine 
s; accept  
The Rape of the  Sabine Women 
; or  
The 
Intervention of the  Sabine Women 
] 
052-09-12-11107 
7. The protagonist of this play is mortally wounded by an object dropped from a roof on the way to one of 
his weekly visits to a nunnery. It opens at the Hôtel de Burgundy Theatre where the actor Montfleury is 
ordered to get off the stage. In one subplot of this play, a central character convinces a friar that a letter 
from the wicked Count de Guiche is ordering him to marry her to her lover. That lover dies fighting the 
Spanish on the battlefield and is rendered mute during a balcony scene with the female lead. This play ends 
as its title character recites a letter from memory, forcing Roxanne to realize that the shy, ineloquent 
Christian had enlisted him into writing her love letters. For 10 points, name this Edmond Rostand play 
about a poet and soldier with a large nose. 
ANSWER:  
Cyrano de Bergerac 
015-09-12-11108 
8. Treating a solid variant of this class of molecules with six equivalents of alkali metal results in the A6 
phase which has a filled t  (“T sub 1U”) pi-molecular orbital. These molecules were first produced 
1u 
through the laser vaporization and then cooling via helium gas of their component atoms in an experiment 
named after Smiley and Krato. One variant of this class of molecules often produced via the 
Kratschmer-Huffman method draws its strength from its sp  bonds, has single and double walled varieties, 
2 
and is known as the nanotube. For 10 points, name this class of molecules, the most famous example of 
which has formula C . 
60 
ANSWER:  
Fullerene 
 [Do not accept “Buckminsterfullerene”] 
059-09-12-11109 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  2 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
9. This figure's ashes were placed in a golden urn on the Rhoetean promontory. This figure prayed to Zeus 
to lift some fog so he can fight in the light of day. In one duel, he hurled a giant rock and killed Phorkys 
and his allies for burning a ship. He fended off enemies while his then-ally loaded a body onto a chariot. 
This wielder of a seven-cowhide shield and massive spear was not given an item for aiding Odysseus in 
burying Patroclus and Achilles. As a result of not getting that armor, this figure fell upon a sword that 
Hector had earlier gifted him. For 10 points, name this son of Telamon and king of Salamis who commited 
suicide in the  
Iliad 
. 
ANSWER:  
Ajax 
 the Greater [or Telamonian  
Ajax 
 or  
Ajax 
 the Great; do not accept \"Ajax the Lesser\"] 
059-09-12-11110 
10. A cult of the dead in this present-day nation left behind an underground burial chamber at Hal Saflieni. 
Its population asked for authority over it be transferred to the British in protest of the provisions of the 
Treaty of Amiens. This polity was awarded the George Cross, Britain's highest civilian decoration, due to 
its people's bravery in the face of Axis bombings in World War II, and the Italian fleet surrendered to the 
Allies in its capial in 1943. This country was ceded by Charles V to the Knights of Rhodes, and the 
building of its capital was commissioned by Jean Parisot de la Valette. For 10 points, name this 
Mediterranean island nation that sucessfully withstood a 1565 Ottoman siege. 
ANSWER:  
Malta 
030-09-12-11111 
11. One section of this work imagines those \"healthy-minded\" individuals who cannot understand how 
those who appear to suffer from \"folk diseases\" see them as corpselike. This work analyzes the etymology 
of a word that stems from \"goat-song\" in order to claim that a certain body was originally composed of 
satyrs. This work was reissued with the subtitle \"Or: Hellenism and Pessimism,\" and its author appended an 
\"Attempt at Self-Criticism\" to it. It argues that Socrates issued in the Apollonian age, but that the music of 
Richard Wagner hails back to the earlier Dionysian spirit. For 10 points, name this work that analyzes a 
Greek dramatic form, an early philosophical book by Friedrich Nietzsche. 
ANSWER:  
The  Birth of Tragedy  from the Spirit of Music 
 [or  
Die  Geburt der Tragödie  aus dem Geiste der 
Musik 
] 
026-09-12-11112 
12. These structures are protected by the shelterin complex. In yeast, these structures bind to the SIR2/3/4 
complex, and these structures form stacks of G-quadruplexes. Inhibition of Fbx4, which degrades the TRF1 
protein that binds to these structures, is one possible mechanism for a universal anti-cancer drug. These 
parts of a larger structure contain G-rich repeat sequences, and their uncapping can lead to the senescence 
of somatic cells. The Hayflick limit occurs due to shrinking of these structures after multiple cell divisions, 
as a result of the end replication problem. For 10 points, name these genetic structures at the ends of 
chromosomes, whose shortening is associated with aging. 
ANSWER:  
telomere 
s [do not accept or prompt on \"chromosomes\"] 
032-09-12-11113 
13. Fernando Sor's opus nine consists of variations for guitar of a theme by this composer. Another theme 
by this composer provided the basis for the variations and fugue by Max Reger. He wrote his clarinet 
concerto in A major for Anton Stadler, and composed a fugue based on five themes in the fourth movement 
of his last symphony. Tchaikovsky's fourth orchestral suite is based on works of this composer, including 
his setting of the  
Ave verum corpus 
. According to legend, he transcribed Giorgio Allegri's  
Miserere 
 from 
memory at age twelve, and his works are categorized by Köchel numbers. For 10 points, name this 
composer of the  
Jupiter 
 symphony and  
Eine Kleine Nachtmusik 
. 
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus  
Mozart 
030-09-12-11114 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  3 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. This man called himself \"George Certain\" in coded letters addressed to \"Lambert Certain.\" His  
Apology 
dated his ancestry back to Otto II. His first territorial acquisition, done entirely without his knowledge, 
occurred after a ferryman vastly overestimated the size of de la Mark's forces; that acquisition was 
commemorated in a poem celebrating the stealing of the spectacles of the Duke of Alva. This man gave 
letters of marque to the Sea Beggars, which allowed them to raid Spanish ships. He was shot by Balthasar 
Gerard, a Jesuit priest. For 10 points, name this leader in the war for Dutch Independence, whose grandson 
of the same name ascended to the English throne during the Glorious Revolution. 
ANSWER:  
William the Silent 
 [or  
William of Nassau 
-Dillenberg; prompt on  
William of Orange 
] 
003-09-12-11115 
15. This author wrote a satirical poem accusing rhyming poetry of \"wresting words from their true calling\" 
and \"propping verse for fear of falling.\" This author of \"A fit of rhyme against rhyme\" wrote a play that 
ends with its characters being invited to dinner by Adam Overdo, who visits the title event along with 
Winwife and Littlewit. One of this playwright's title characters jumps out of his bed and attempts to seduce 
the wife of Corvino by singing \"Come, my Celia, let us prove / While we may, the sports of love.\" In 
another of this author's plays, characters like Abel Drugger and Sir Epicure Mammon are cheated by the 
team of Dol Common, Subtle, and Face. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan playwright of  
Bartholomew 
Fair Volpone 
,  , and  
The Alchemist 
. 
ANSWER: Ben  
Jonson 
034-09-12-11116 
16. A preface to this book claims that it is worth memorizing and consuming daily, like the \"daily bread of 
the soul.\" This book contains verses on \"patient continuance in well-doing\" and those who \"worketh not, 
but believeth,\" a central conflict to the  
Sola gratia 
 versus  
Sola fide 
 controversy. One theologian states that 
its usage of \"ho alazon\" does not imply a denunciation of hypocritical Jews. This book's author claims not 
to be \"ashamed\" and advances the idea that Jews and Gentiles are equal before God in the \"dual-covenant.\" 
For 10 points, name this Pauline epistle, the first one in order, in which Paul addresses a church in Italy. 
ANSWER: Paul's  
Epistle to the  Romans 
 [accept word order variants including  
Romans 
] 
026-09-12-11117 
17. This character is forced to resign from the board of the Providential Premium Reassurance Society in a 
scandal over Elderson's corrupt investments in the German mark and the firing of Butterfield. Earlier, he 
hires Philip Bossiney to build an estate at Robin Hill in order to please his wife Irene. He is ultimately 
killed by a falling painting while saving his daughter Fleur from a house fire in  
Swan Song. 
 Earlier, he had 
arrived at his uncle Old Jolyon's estate upon hearing of the engagement of his niece June. For 10 points, 
name this \"man of property,\" the protagonist of a John Galsworthy \"saga.\" 
ANSWER: Soames  
Forsyte 
 [or  
Soames 
 Forsyte] 
019-09-12-11118 
18. One automated approach to this is dynamic slicing. One systematic approach to this is known as delta. 
The value DEADBEEF has been used historically to aid in this. It often involves the use of after-the-fact 
data such as core dumps. Commands in the namesake programs of this process are often equivalent to 
\"step\", \"next\", and \"continue,\" which can be called after setting a breakpoint. One technique in this 
procedure is stack tracing, which shows the stack of current function calls. A widely used program 
designed to do this os gdb. It often involves looking at the values of variables over the course of a 
program's execution. For 10 points, name this process of fixing errors and problems in a computer program. 
ANSWER:  
debug 
 (or  
debugging 
; accept other close equivalents) 
001-09-12-11119 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  4 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
19. Deutsch and Gerard showed that this action is performed more often at higher degrees of uncertainty. 
Stanley Milgram found that the French do this less often than Norwegians, and Whittaker and Meade found 
that this occurs more often among the Bantu, which have sanctions against not doing it, than among 
Lebanese. The two major types of this behavior are conversion and compliance. The most famous 
experiment involving this action told participants it was actually a vision test, and pressured subjects to 
assert that an incorrect line was closer in length to another line after a group of confederates also identified 
the wrong line. For 10 points, name this action studied by Solomon Asch, in which a person subjugates his 
private attitudes in the face of implied social norms. 
ANSWER:  
conform 
ing [or word forms such as  
conformity 
] 
003-09-12-11120 
20. The missing arm of a work by this sculptor may have clutched a bunch of grapes. Two works attributed 
to this artist are the disembodied  
Leconfield Head 
 and  
Aberdeen Head 
. He depicted a goddess draping a 
robe over an urn with her left hand while covering her genitals with her right. Another work by this 
sculptor depicts an animal on a tree-trunk, about to be smote by a god's outstretched right hand. This 
sculptor of the bathing  
Aphrodite of Cnidos 
 (NYE-dus) and lizard-killing  
Apollo Sauroktonos 
 created a 
sculpture of the messenger of the gods holding a young god. For 10 points, name this Greek sculptor of  
Hermes Bearing the Infant Dionysus 
. 
ANSWER:  
Praxiteles 
024-09-12-11121 
21. The protagonist of this story hears several whispers in a language he doesn't recognize after seeing 
some unfamiliar stars in strange constellations. That protagonist is distracted from thinking about his wife 
and children by \"a sharp, distinct, metallic percussion\" that turns out to be the ticking of his watch. One 
character in this story tells of a great quantity of driftwood that would easily burn; that character is given 
water by the protagonist's wife and later revealed to be a Federal scout. The protagonist of this story 
imagines meeting his wife on his veranda after swimming through some rapids and dodging the bullets of 
Union soldiers. For 10 points, name this short story in which Peyton Fahrquhar imagines his escape after 
being hung from the title structure, a work of Ambrose Bierce. 
ANSWER: \"An  
Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge 
\" 
034-09-12-11122 
22. In this group of organisms, Late Embryogenesis Abundant proteins are thought to play a role in 
preventing damage during droughts. Members of one of its divisions use multi-cellular, branched rhizoids 
as anchor. Their life cycles include a stage as protonema, a product of spore germination. Although 
alternation of generation occurs, gametophytes tend to dominate sporophytes, and they require free water to 
reproduce. For 10 points, name the group of non-vascular plants, which include hornworts, liverworts, and 
mosses. 
ANSWER:  
bryophytes 
 [accept  
Bryophyta 
; prompt on  
mosses 
] 
034-09-12-11123 
23. One story about this man says that he killed his half-brother with a bow and arrow after that man, 
Bekhter, stole his hunting spoils. He was served by a general known as the “Arrow,” who led this man’s 
military campaign against the Kara-Khitan region. One of his greatest accomplishments was winning the 
Battle of the Badger Mouth, while another victory saw him ferociously smash the Khwarezmi empire and 
destroy their capitals of Urgench and Samarkand. Another story says that he ordered that his son Jochi be 
poisoned to allow the more reliable son Ogedei to serve as successor. For 10 points, name this man who 
had the real name of Temujin, the founder of the Mongol Empire who was later succeeded by grandson 
Kublai. 
ANSWER:  
Genghis 
 Khan [accept  
Temujin 
 until mentioned] 
052-09-12-11124 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  5 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
National All-Star Academic Tournament 
Round 11 
Bonuses 
1. Late in his career, this author moved significantly to the right and wrote the anti-Communist novels  
Most 
Likely to Succeed 
 and  
The Great Days 
. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this American author who provided a dizzying look at the early history and culture of 
twentieth-century America in his trilogy  
U.S.A. 
. 
ANSWER: John Roderigo  
Dos Passos 
[10] The  
U.S.A. 
 trilogy ends with Mary French unsuccessfully protesting the verdict in this case, which 
inspired Maxwell Anderson to write  
Winterset 
. 
ANSWER: the  
Sacco 
 and  
Vanzetti 
 trial 
[10] The major villain in the  
U.S.A. 
 trilogy may be this character, who is ironically born on the fourth of 
July. He runs an influential advertising agency which employs his protege, Dick Savage, and has a talent 
for performing skilled public relations for corrupt companies. 
ANSWER: John Ward  
Morehouse 
 [or  
J. Ward 
; or  
J. W. 
] 
052-09-12-11201 
2. All three stanzas of this song end with the title two words, which are repeatedly sung after the line 
\"Jammo, jammo 'ncoppa, jammo jà.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this song composed in 1880 by Luigi Denza to lyrics by Peppino Turco. It celebrates the 
opening of the first inclined railway up Mount Vesuvius. 
ANSWER: \" 
Funiculi, Funicula 
\" 
[10] This other Neapolitan song was composed by Eduardo Di Capua in 1898. Its singer remarks \"What a 
beautiful thing is a sunny day,\" but then sings that his brighter sun is \"upon your face.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
O Sole Mio 
\" 
[10] This Italian tenor sang renowned versions of \"Funiculi, Funicula\" and \"O Sole Mio.\" He sang with 
Plácido Domingo and José Carreras as the Three Tenors. 
ANSWER: Luciano  
Pavarotti 
004-09-12-11202 
3. This god was killed by the dwarves Fjalar and Galar, who fermented his blood to create the mead of 
poetry. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this wisest of the Norse gods, who was created from the combined saliva of the Aesir and the 
Vanir. 
ANSWER:  
Kvasir 
[10] This god persuaded Sutting's daughter Gunnlod to let him drink the mead of poetry. He rode the 
eight-legged horse Sleipnir and was devoured by the wolf Fenrir during Ragnarok. 
ANSWER:  
Odin 
 [or  
Wodan 
; or  
Wotan 
] 
[10] Fjalar and Galar also murdered Gilling, a member of this race of giants with superhuman strength that 
lived in a eponymous densely forested realm. 
ANSWER:  
jötunn 
 [or  
jötunnheimr 
] 
004-09-12-11203 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  6 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
4. Walter Model was to lead to forces attacking south from Orel, while forces under the command of Erich 
von Manstein attacked from Kharkov, which was to the north. For 10 points each, 
[10] That formed the basis of Operation Citadel, the German plan of attack that led to which battle? 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Kursk 
[10] The Battle of Kursk saw the largest engagement in the history of the world between this type of 
vehicle; Soviet ones used during World War II include the Kliment Voroshilov and the T-26. 
ANSWER:  
tank 
s 
[10] One of the German commanders at Kursk, Gunther von Kluge, later killed himself before being 
arrested for participating in what scheme to assassinate Hitler in 1944? 
ANSWER: twentieth of  
July plot 
040-09-12-11204 
5. After getting in a knife fight, the leading male character in this movie is expelled from the circus run by 
Mr. Giraffe. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this neorealist movie in which Anthony Quinn plays the strongman Zampanò, whose brutish 
nature is finally changed by the death of Gelsomina. 
ANSWER:  
La  strada 
 [or  
The  Road 
] 
[10]  
La strada 
 was directed by this filmmaker, who also directed  
Eight and a Half 
 and  
La Dolce Vita 
. 
ANSWER: Federico  
Fellini 
[10] Fellini is an influential director from this nation, which also spawned films such as  
The Bicycle Thief 
and  
Life is Beautiful 
, which starred Oscar-winner Roberto Benigni. 
ANSWER:  
Italy 
 [or  
Italian Republic 
; or  
Republica italiana 
] 
004-09-12-11205 
6. The Axe Murder Incident occurred in this region in 1976. For 10 points each: 
[10] Give this term for the border between North and South Korea along the 38th parallel. 
ANSWER:  
DMZ 
 [or  
Demilitarized Zone 
] 
[10] This village in the Demilitarized Zone was site of the signing of an armistice ending the Korean War. 
ANSWER:  
Panmunjom 
[10] Until the Axe Murder Incident, this bridge along the Demilitarized Zone was used to exchange 
prisoners between North and South Korea. 
ANSWER:  
Bridge of No Return 
064-09-12-11206 
7. This work's chapters consider Odysseus, Juliette, and elements of anti-semitism. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1944 book by Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer. 
ANSWER:  
The  Dialectic of Enlightenment 
[10]  
The Dialectic of Enlightenment 
 coined this two word phrase in a chapter subtitled \"Enlightenment as 
Mass Deception.\" This entity is described as a factory which churns out mass produced content that keeps 
the masses obedient to the markets. 
ANSWER:  
culture industry 
[10] Adorno and other Frankfurt School thinkers were deeply influenced by this author of  
On Narcissism 
. 
He wrote about the development of religion in  
The Future of an Illusion 
 and coined the term \"Oedipus 
complex.\" 
ANSWER: Sigmund  
Freud 
040-09-12-11207 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  7 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
8. \"Prolapse\" of this structure usually results in a heart murmur. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this structure that, when normally working, prevents blood from prematurely entering the left 
ventricle or splashing back into the left atrium. 
ANSWER:  
mitral valve 
 [or  
bicuspid valve 
; prompt on heart  
valve 
] 
[10] These structures connect the mitral valve to the papillary muscles and are pulled taut during systole. 
ANSWER:  
chordae tendonae 
[10] At the other end of the left ventricle is this other heart valve that opens to let blood into its namesake 
largest artery in the body. 
ANSWER:  
aortic 
 valve 
003-09-12-11208 
9. Comic relief in this play is provided by Tony, who sings a drinking song that begins \"Let schoolmasters 
puzzle their brain / With grammar, and nonsense, and learning.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play about Charles Marlow, who overcomes his nervousness courting Kate Hardcastle when 
she pretends to be a barmaid. 
ANSWER:  
She Stoops to Conquer 
[10]  
She Stoops to Conquer 
 was written by this Irish author, a close friend of Samuel Johnson. He wrote 
about Reverend Charles Primrose in his novel  
The Vicar of Wakefield 
ANSWER: Oliver  
Goldsmith 
[10] Goldsmith wrote \"Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey / Where wealth accumulates and men 
decay\" in this poem written as a reaction to the Inclosure Acts. It describes the former vibrant life of the 
title location, which the speaker calls \"Sweet Auburn.\" 
ANSWER: \"The  
Deserted Village 
\" 
064-09-12-11209 
10. This movement inspired Caribbean authors such as Patrick Chamoiseau, Raphaël Confiant and Jean 
Bernabé to develop the ideology of \"creolity.\" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this literary and cultural movement founded by Léon Damas, Aimé Césaire, and Léopold 
Senghor, which affirmed and celebrated a black African identity separate from the colonial West. 
ANSWER:  
Negritude 
[10] This Nigerian author declared that \"a tiger does not proclaim its tigritude\" to criticize the 
self-absorption of Negritude. He drew from Yoruban cultural traditions to write his plays  
The Strong Breed 
and  
Death and the King's Horseman 
. 
ANSWER: Wole  
Soyinka 
[10] Césaire coined the word negritude in this long poem, which proclaims that the speaker's negritude 
\"plunges into the red flesh of the soil\" instead of being \"a white speck of dead water on the dead eye of the 
earth.\" It uses surreal prose paragraphs to imagine coming back to Martinique. 
ANSWER: \" 
Notebook of a Return to my Native Land 
\" [or \" 
Notebook of a Return to the Native Land 
\"; or \" 
Cahier d’un retour au pays natal 
\"] 
004-09-12-11210 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  8 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
11. Name the following things somewhat related to working with uranium, for 10 points each. 
[10] This law, which is useful in uranium purification, states that the rate that a gas leaks through a pinhole 
is inversely proportional to the square root of the molar mass of that gas. 
ANSWER:  
Graham 
's Law of Effusion 
[10] PUREX, a procedure for recovering fuel from nuclear waste, is a variation on this chemical technique, 
in which a substance selectively chooses between an aqueous and organic phase. The corresponding phase 
is then removed. 
ANSWER: Liquid-Liquid  
extraction 
[10] Liquid-liquid extractions commonly occur in a separating funnel, which contains one of these valves at 
the bottom. They are also found in burets. 
ANSWER:  
Stopcock 
023-09-12-11211 
12. For 10 points each, name these battles from twentieth-century Italy. 
[10] Operation Judgment was the codename for this World War II British air raid on the Italian navy that 
was launched from the  
HMS Illustrious; 
 the Italians lost nearly half of their naval power in one day. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Taranto 
 [or Battle of  
Tarentum 
] 
[10] John Lucas initially led the amphibious assault at this marshy site in Lazio, but the preperations of 
General Kesselring turned what could have been a swift victory to a several month long affair. It allowed 
Allied forces to enter Italy. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Anzio 
[10] This \"twelfth battle of the Isonzo\" was Italy's biggest World War I disaster, and saw around half of the 
country's army captured by Austria. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Caporetto 
040-09-12-11212 
13. [NOTE TO MODERATOR: Please do not read the alternative answer to the second part, but obviously 
do accept it if given.] 
The Airy disk is the intensity pattern when this phenomenon occurs around a circular aperture. For 10 
points each: 
[10] Name this bending of waves around obstacles. 
ANSWER:  
diffraction 
[10] This principle can be used to explain diffraction as the result an initial wavefront emitting secondary 
waves, some of which make it around an obstacle or through an aperture. 
ANSWER:  
Huygens 
' principle [or the  
Huygens-Fresnel 
 principle] 
[10] Huygens' principle is especially useful in characterizing this diffraction regime, which occurs when the 
dimensionless number obstacle-size-squared over wavelength times observer distance is large. 
ANSWER:  
near-field 
 diffraction [or  
Fresnel 
 diffraction] 
032-09-12-11213 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  9 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
14. He introduced the use of stenciled letters into Cubism with a 1910 still life of a newspaper, which 
included the letters \"B-A-L\" across the top,  
The Portuguese. 
 For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painter who co-founded the Cubist movement with Picasso. 
ANSWER: Georges  
Braque 
[10] Braque depicted the title resident-less \"Houses\" of this town in Aix-en-Province as orange prisms 
jutting at various angles, interrupted only by trees. 
ANSWER:  
L'estaque 
 [or  
Houses at L'estaque 
] 
[10] This art critic accused Braque of only painting \"cubes,\" thus naming the Cubist movement. He had 
earlier coined the name of Fauvism when he exclaimed \"Donatello among the wild beasts!\" 
ANSWER: Louis  
Vauxcelles 
 (vah-SAY) 
019-09-12-11214 
15. In rituals they are often summoned by a Bokor. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these spirits, intermediaries between mankind and Bondye, often syncretized with Catholic 
saints. Papa Legba helps them communicate with humans. 
ANSWER:  
Loa 
 (Low-ah) 
[10] The loa are the spirits of this religion, whose priests and priestesses are the houngan and mambo. This 
religion and its variants are observed in West Africa, Haiti, and Louisiana. 
ANSWER:  
vodou 
n [or  
voodoo 
] 
[10] This loa of death often is depicted well dressed and with a prominent hat. He is also said to be fond of 
rum and tobacco. 
ANSWER: Baron  
Samedi 
002-09-12-11215 
16. This prime minister's policy of unrestricted reciprocity with the United States was rejected in the 1891 
general election. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this politician who oversaw the creation of the provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan during 
his term as the Prime Minister of Canada, which lasted from 1896 to 1911. 
ANSWER: Sir Wilfrid  
Laurier 
[10] From 1887 to 1919, Laurier was the leader of this Canadian political party, which opposed Robert 
Borden's Conservative Party. 
ANSWER:  
Liberal 
 Party 
[10] In 1878, this Conservative politician was elected Prime Minister under the slogan \"The Old Flag, The 
Old Policy, The Old Leader,\" defeating Wilfrid Laurier. After the passage of the British North America Act 
of 1867, he was selected as Canada's first Prime Minister. 
ANSWER: Sir John Alexander  
MacDonald 
004-09-12-11216 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  10 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
17. Answer these questions about the accomplishments of Augustin-Louis Cauchy, for 10 points each. 
[10] The Cauchy test can determine whether a series has this property, which comes in absolute and 
uniform varieties. Other tests for it include the ratio and root tests. 
ANSWER:  
convergence 
 [accept  
divergence 
; accept word forms like  
converge 
] 
[10] For two vectors x and y, the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality states that the square modulus of this 
operation between x and y is less than or equal to this operation between x and itself times operation 
between y and itself. This two-parameter operation maps vectors to numbers. One form of it is the 
Euclidian dot. 
ANSWER:  
inner product 
 [or  
scalar product 
] 
[10] The Cauchy-Riemann differential equations determine if a differentiable function has this property. A 
Function with this property on a set has an unambiguous complex derivative at every point on the set. 
ANSWER:  
holomorphic 
 [or  
analytic 
; accept  
entire 
] 
064-09-12-11217 
18. “His Sayings” includes Jeems Rober’son’s last illness. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this narrator of several collections of American folktales including \"The Wonderful Tar-Baby 
Story.\" 
ANSWER: Uncle  
Remus 
[10] This character found in several of Uncle Remus stories tricks Fox into throwing him a patch of thorny 
plants. 
ANSWER:  
Br'er Rabbit 
[10] This author of  
 The Shadow Between His Shoulder-Blades 
 wrote the Uncle Remus tales. 
ANSWER: Joel Chandler  
Harris 
001-09-12-11218 
19. Stewart Van Vliet was dispatched by William Harney to this territory with a letter indicating concern 
over the treatment of Judge Stiles. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this territory that was the site of an 1857-58 conflict that attempted to install Alfred Cumming 
as its governor and included the destruction of Fort Bridger. 
ANSWER:  
Utah 
[10] The Utah War was a dispute between U.S. forces and members of this faith that were led at the time by 
Brigham Young. 
ANSWER:  
Mormon 
s 
[10] A Mormon brigade during the conflict was named after this Illinois town where Joseph Smith had 
founded a prominent Mormon community. 
ANSWER:  
Nauvoo 
040-09-12-11219 
20. In this play, Hugo Pludek's parents arrange an appointment with him to see Mr. Kalabis, who works at 
the Liquidation Office. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which Pludek's identity is eroded to the point where his parents cannot recognize 
him. 
ANSWER:  
The  Garden Party 
 [or  
Zahradni slavnost 
] 
[10] The languages of ptydepe and chorukor feature in the plot of this other play which begins with Josef 
Gross receiving the title communication. 
ANSWER:  
The  Memorandum 
 [or  
Vyrozumeni 
] 
[10]  
The Garden Party 
 and  
The Memorandum 
 are both plays by this author who was also the first president 
of the Czech Republic. 
ANSWER: Vaclav  
Havel 
040-09-12-11220 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  11 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
21. This structure contains sphingolipids, and structures like lipid rafts and caveolae that contain 
particularly large amounts of cholesterol. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these structures, formed from a bilayer of phospholipids, which are described by the fluid 
mosaic model. 
ANSWER:  
cell membrane 
s 
[10] The cell membranes of different cells host these structures, which employ cadherins cell-cell adhesion. 
Hemi- ones use proteins like integrins to attach cells to the extracellular matrix. 
ANSWER:  
desmosome 
s 
[10] Desmosomes anchor these parts of the cytoskeleton to the cell membrane. They include keratins and 
vimentins and have no known associated motor proteins. 
ANSWER:  
intermediate filament 
s [do not accept \"microfilaments\" or \"actin filaments\"] 
022-09-12-11221 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
National All-Star Academic Tournament     Round 11     Page  12 of 12 
© 2010 HSAPQ. Questions may be distributed to teams in attendance at this tournament only, in paper form only. 
