VHSL States 2012 
Round 3 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Philip II Augustus recognized this ruler as heir to the throne of England in the Treaty of Goulet. This 
man tried to gain his brother's land by overthrowing Chancellor William Longchamp. Innocent III 
excommunicated this man for not recognizing Stephen Langton as the Archbishop of Canterbury. This 
man's forces under Otto IV were defeated at the Battle of Bouvines. For 10 points, name this English king 
who was forced by the barons to sign the Magna Carta in 1215. 
ANSWER:  
John 
 of England [or  
John 
 Lackland] 
079-12-56-03101 
2. This work's minor characters include Goodhue, who locks himself in his attic to protest the Civil War 
and dies of starvation. In the last lines of this work, one of the principal narrators vehemently denies that he 
\"hates the South,\" in response to a question from his Harvard roommate Shreve. This novel begins with 
Rosa Coldfield telling the central story to Quentin Compson. For 10 points, name this William Faulkner 
novel about Charles Bon and Henry, the sons of Thomas Sutpen. 
ANSWER:  
Absalom, Absalom! 
142-12-56-03102 
3. This leader received a sword of honor for his victory at the Battle of Sant'Antonio. In fighting the 
tyranny of Juan Manuel de Rosas, this leader was put in charge of the Uruguayan navy. His victory at the 
Battle of Milazzo allowed him a path towards Messina while he traveled with his Expedition of the 
Thousand. For 10 points, name this Italian patriot who helped the House of Savoy by leading the Redshirts 
in conquering Sicily and Naples for the unification of Italy. 
ANSWER: Giuseppe  
Garibaldi 
130-12-56-03103 
4. An afrikaans folksong details a visit to Cape Town by members of this military force. That vessal 
belonging to this fleet was built in Great Britain, leading to a series of namesake \"claims,\" and was defeated 
in a French port by the Kearsarge. One member of this fleet sank the Cumberland before fighting the USS  
Monitor 
 to a stalemate in the Battle of Hampton Roads. For 10 points, name this group of ships that 
included the  
Alabama 
 and the  
Virginia 
, which were both labeled as \"CSS.\" 
ANSWER:  
Confederate Navy 
 [or  
Navy 
 of the  
Confederate 
 States of America; accept equivalents] 
002-12-56-03104 
5. Similar to the thymus, this organ only contains efferent lymphatic vessels. Unlike many other abdominal 
organs, it comes from mesenchymal (meh-sen-KIE-mull) tissue. This organ recycles iron and holds a 
reserve of blood in the event of hemorrhagic shock. In processing hemoglobin, this organ turns the 
substance into amino acids and bilirubin (BIH-lih-roo-bin), that latter of which is removed in the liver. For 
10 points, name the organ whose red pulp and white pulp areas filter red blood cells and act as a large 
lymph node. 
ANSWER:  
spleen 
147-12-56-03105 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  1 of 10 
6. Near the end of this work, one character exclaims, \"Why, you're one of my babies. You're one of my 
own children!\" after a man says that \"there's no pleasure but meanness.\" One character in this short story 
secretly brings the cat Pitty Sing with her and complains that she would rather go to Tennessee than 
Florida. In this short story, the grandmother pesters Bailey into taking a detour, resulting in her and her 
family's murder by the Misfit. For 10 points, identify this short story by Flannery O'Connor. 
ANSWER: \"A  
Good Man Is Hard to Find 
\" 
126-12-56-03106 
7. In this work, the narrator reads a story about a knight named Ethelred who wins a shield after killing a 
dragon. That story,  
The Mad Trist, 
 is read to a man who later recites a work about \"evil things\" which 
\"assailed the monarch's high estate\". The poem \"The Haunted Palace\" appears in this short story, which 
sees the unnamed narrator visit his sickly friend Roderick, who entombs his sister Madeline alive. For 10 
points, name this Edgar Allen Poe short story which ends with the collapse of the title residence. 
ANSWER: \"The  
Fall of the House of Usher 
\" 
064-12-56-03107 
8. Matthew Arnold argued the goal of this practice was “to see the object as in itself it really is” in an essay 
about the function of this practice “at the present time.” I. A. Richards showed the difficulty of close 
reading in a book titled for the “practical” type of this. Richards was a founding member of a movement 
called the “New” type of this practice. In  
The Anatomy 
 of this practice, Northrop Frye argued it should 
involve more description and fewer value judgments. For 10 points, name this discipline, the evaluation of 
literature. 
ANSWER: literary  
criticism 
121-12-56-03108 
9. This kind of sort belongs to the order of n squared, making it inefficient for large data sets, although it is 
both stable and adaptive. The list elements subject to it only go through a comparison algorithm obeying 
transitivity and trichotomy. For presorted lists, it is better than many sorts like quicksort, but still not as 
good as insertion sort. For 10 points, name the sorting algorithm that stops after a complete run through a 
set causes no elements to float to one end or the other. 
ANSWER:  
bubble 
 sort [or  
sinking 
 sort] 
147-12-56-03109 
10. The \"actual malice\" standard for this act was extended to public figures in  
Gertz v. Welch Rosenbloom 
.  
v. Metromedia 
 established a \"matter of public concern\" standard for this act, which must be \"of and 
concerning\" the plaintiff, false, and injurious to reputation. John Peter Zenger was charged with the 
\"seditious\" type of this act that an Alabama police commissioner sued over in  
New York Times v. Sullivan 
. 
For 10 points, name this written type of defamation that is contrasted with slander. 
ANSWER:  
libel 
 [prompt on  
defamation 
; do not accept \"slander\"] 
124-12-56-03110 
11. In one poem by this writer, the speaker talks about “pangs unfelt before, unpitied and alone.” That 
poem ends with the lines, “Teach me to love and to forgive, exact my own defects to scan, what others are, 
to feel, and know myself a man.” This poet of \"Hymn to Adversity\" wrote that “where ignorance is bliss, 
‘tis folly to be wise” in \"Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College.\" Another of his poem's states, “The 
paths of glory lead but to the grave.” For 10 points, name this English poet of “Elegy Written in a Country 
Churchyard.” 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Gray 
130-12-56-03111 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  2 of 10 
12. One myth about the creation of this structure tells of how it was created by two boys playing in the mud 
after a rain. One of the explorers who discovered this structure also found the nearby Lake Amadeus and a 
similar structure to this one, now known as Kata Tjuta. This large red structure is sacred to the Anangu 
people and is located in the southwest corner of a state with capital at Darwin. For 10 points, name this 
large sandstone formation in Australia’s Northern Territory. 
ANSWER:  
Uluru 
 [or  
Ayer’s Rock 
] 
141-12-56-03112 
13. Ballets by composers from this country include  
The Red Poppy, Raymonda, 
   and  
The Seasons. 
 This 
country was also home to the composer of a piano piece whose difficulty Ravel attempted to surpass with  
Gaspard de la nuit 
 (gas-PAHR de la NWEE). That composer of  
Islamey 
 (iz-LAH-may) was a member of a 
group that also included the men behind \"The Flight of the Bumblebee\" and  
Night on Bald Mountain 
, the 
latter of whom also composed  
Pictures at an Exhibition 
. For 10 points, name this country whose \"Mighty 
Five\" composers included Modest Mussorgsky (mus-SOHRG-skee). 
ANSWER:  
Russia 
040-12-56-03113 
14. In one story by this author, a friar receives a fart from his patron and tries to divide it equally between 
twelve of his friends. This writer told a story in which three drunk friends plan to kill Death, but end up 
killing one another for greed. He also wrote about Emily, sister of Hippolyta (hih-PAHL-ih-tuh), for whom 
the friends Palamon and Arcite (ARK-ih-tay) compete. This author wrote the line \"Whan that Aprill with 
his shoures soote\" to open a collection of stories told by pilgrims like the Summoner, the Pardoner, and the 
Knight. For 10 points, name this Middle English poet of  
The Canterbury Tales. 
ANSWER: Geoffrey  
Chaucer 
080-12-56-03114 
15. On this holiday, a certain type of traditional bread is prepared in circular form. Afterwards, participants 
throw pieces of bread into a body of water to symbolize the casting away of sins. This holiday is 
immediately followed by the Fast of Gedalia and occurs at the beginning of the ten \"days of awe.\" This 
holiday takes place on the first and second days of Tishrei. Apples dipped in honey are eaten on this 
holiday which, like Yom Kippur, sees the blowing of a ram's horn called a shofar. For 10 points, name this 
holiday celebrating the Jewish New Year. 
ANSWER:  
Rosh Hashanah 
064-12-56-03115 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 3 
Directed Round 
1A.  Name the Atlanta-based rap artist who produced a series of  
Thug Motivation 
 albums with songs 
including “F.A.M.E.” and “Soul Survivor.” 
ANSWER:  
Young Jeezy 
 [or Jay Wayne  
Jenkins 
] 
1B.  What 2011 film follows Oakland A’s manager Billy Beane? 
ANSWER:  
Moneyball 
2A.  Golden examples of which fruit belonged to Idun in Norse myth and were guarded by the Hesperides 
in Greek myth? 
ANSWER:  
apple 
s 
2B.  What phenomenon is characterized by high sea surface temperature in the Pacific Ocean and results 
from the weakening of the Walker Circulation? 
ANSWER:  
El Niño 
 Southern Oscillation [or  
ENSO 
; prompt on  
Southern Oscillation 
; do not accept  
La 
Niña 
] 
3A.  This is a 10-second calculation question. What is the arcsin of the fourth-quadrant angle whose cosine 
is 3/4? Express your answer in simplest radical form. 
ANSWER:  
-sqrt(7)/4 
 [or  
negative 
 square  
root 
 of   all  
7 over 4 
] 
3B.  This is a 10-second calculation question. Two independent random variables are uniformly distributed 
on the interval [0,1]. What is the probability that their sum is greater than 0.5? 
ANSWER:  
0.875 
 [or  
7/8 
4A.  What leader of the Free French Forces was the first President of France's Fifth Republic? 
ANSWER: Charles Andre Joseph Marie  
de Gaulle 
4B.  What American writer wrote about the courage of Alexandra Bergson in  
O Pioneers! 
 and about the 
title immigrant in  
My Antonia 
? 
ANSWER: Willa  
Cather 
 [or Wilella Sibert  
Cather 
] 
5A.  What country's two main political parties are the National Congress Party and the BJP? 
ANSWER:  
India 
5B.  What Giuseppe Verdi opera concerns Violetta, a courtesan who falls in love with Alfredo but dies of 
tuberculosis? 
ANSWER:  
La  Traviata 
6A.  Which Republican presidential candidate dropped out of the race in January 2012 after a disappointing 
third place finish in New Hampshire? 
ANSWER: Jon  
Huntsman 
6B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Find all points of intersection between the ellipse given by 
the equation x /9 + y /16 = 1 and the circle given by the equation x  + y  = 16. 
2 2 2 2 
ANSWER:  
(0,4) and (0, -4) 
 [do not accept or prompt on partial answer] 
7A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What is the equation of the line, passing through the point 
(0,a), perpendicular to a line running through both (a,b) and (b,a)? 
ANSWER:  
y = x + a 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  4 of 10 
7B.  The French word “marron” and the Spanish word “marrón” refer to what color? 
ANSWER:  
brown 
8A.  What element is found in the chemotherapy drug cisplatin (sis-PLAH-tin) and catalytic converters? 
ANSWER:  
platinum 
8B.  What woman helped Watson and Crick determine the structure of DNA through her work with x-ray 
crystallography? 
ANSWER: Rosalind  
Franklin 
9A.  What director frequently worked with John Wayne in Westerns like  
Stagecoach 
 and  
The Man who 
Shot Liberty Valance 
? 
ANSWER: John  
Ford 
9B.  The Sharpesville Massacre occured when police fired on crowds protesting what national policy of 
racial segregation? 
ANSWER:  
apartheid 
10A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. Let AB be a diameter of circle O. Let C be a point on O 
such that angle CAB measures 30 degrees. Let D be the point of intersection between an extension of AB 
and the tangent to O passing through C. If the radius of O is  , what is the area of triangle CAD? 
r 
ANSWER:  
3/4*r*sqrt(3) 
 [or  
three-fourths times r times the square root of 3 
; or  
r times three square 
root of three over four 
] 
10B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. An unfair coin has a 3/4 probability of showing heads when 
flipped and a 1/4 probability of showing tails. What is the standard deviation of the number of heads shown 
when the coin is flipped 12 times? Note that this a binomial experiment. 
ANSWER:  
3/2 
 [or  
1.5 
] 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 3 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. The Chivela Pass, located in this country, has an important role in wind strength in the surrounding area. 
This country also contains the Isthmus of Tehuantepec (teh-JUAN-teh-pec). The tallest mountain in this 
country is the Pico de Orizaba (or-ith-AH-buh). The Paricutin volcano suddenly erupted in this country in 
the twentieth century. Major cities in this country include Guadalajara and Veracruz. For 10 points, name 
this country, home to the popular tourist destination of Cancun. 
ANSWER:  
Mexico 
140-12-56-03117 
2. Included in this treaty was a provision for the protection of the Sloo Grant that would allow for the 
construction of the southern part of the transcontinental railroad. This treaty acquired the area of La Mesilla 
in what would become the thirty thousand square feet of southern Arizona and southern New Mexico. For 
10 points, name this 1853 treaty signed by Franklin Pierce that expanded on what the United States gained 
through the Treaty of Guadalupe Hildalgo following the Mexican-American War. 
ANSWER:  
Gadsden 
 Purchase 
130-12-56-03118 
3. The inaugural version of this event occurred in 1984 with nine contestants and was won by Larry Nance. 
In 2008, the second-place finisher in this event blew out a candle in a cupcake, but lost to a player who put 
on a Superman cape. The 2011 version of this event was won by jumping over a Kia. For 10 points, name 
this annual All-Star Weekend event, won most recently by Blake Griffin, that involves players creatively 
slamming a basketball through a basket. 
ANSWER: NBA Slam  
Dunk Contest 
023-12-56-03119 
4. This function is equal to e  plus e  all divided by two. Its corresponding hyperbolic function describes a 
x -x 
catenary. When converting polar to rectangular coordinates, the x-value is proportional to this function of 
theta. This function is positive in quadrants I and IV. This periodic, even function is the reciprocal of secant 
(SEE-kant) and the derivative of sine, which is also its cofunction. For 10 points, name this trigonometric 
function defined as adjacent over hypotenuse. 
ANSWER:  
cos 
ine 
142-12-56-03120 
5. In one essay, this philosopher claimed that experiences are not physical or mental, yet are part of one’s 
mind. In another essay, this man argued that while faith leads to truth, it is acceptable to have conflicting 
ideas. This author of  
Essays in Radical Empiricism 
 and “The Sentiment of Rationality” described 
\"saintliness\" and \"the sick soul\" in  
The Varieties of Religious Experience. 
 Another of his books gave a 
name to a movement founded by Charles Sanders Peirce. For 10 points, name the American philosopher 
who authored  
Pragmatism. 
ANSWER: William  
James 
140-12-56-03121 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  6 of 10 
6. A function can be transformed into this quantity's namesake domain by the Fourier Transform. The 
product of this quantity and Planck's constant gives the energy of a photon. Harmonics are integer multiples 
of its fundamental type. It's angular type is multiplied by two pi radians. For a pendulum, it is one over two 
pi times square root of   over length. It is equal to the speed of light over wavelength. For 10 points, name 
g 
this quantity equal to one over the period and measured in Hertz. 
ANSWER:  
frequency 
079-12-56-03122 
7. One novel by this author opens with a dismissal given by Von Hagen and includes a scene in which a toy 
gun is given to Willy. In another novel by this writer, a minor fever prevents a visiting wife from having 
sex with her husband Lewandowski. That novel shows an ignorant and pompous schoolmaster named 
Kantorek placing the intense pressure of patriotic duty on Paul Baumer. For 10 points, name this German 
writer who wrote  
The Road Back 
 and  
All Quiet on the Western Front. 
ANSWER: Erich Maria  
Remarque 
 (reh-MARK) 
130-12-56-03123 
8. The discovery that this force violated parity solved the tau-theta puzzle. The interaction of two protons 
via this force initiates the nuclear fusion reaction that takes place in the sun. Salam, Glashow and Weinberg 
unified this force with electromagnetism. Neutrinos only interact via this force. The gauge bosons of this 
force are the W and Z particles. For 10 points, name this fundamental force that governs beta decay, a 
nuclear force several orders of magnitude less strong than the strong force. 
ANSWER:  
weak 
 nuclear force [or  
weak 
 interaction] 
142-12-56-03124 
9. This state's capital lies at the eastern end of Treasure Valley and forms a metropolitan area with Nampa. 
Its city of Coeur d'Alene was the site of a deadly 1892 mining strike. Its northern cities of Moscow and 
Lewiston are in its panhandle. The Bitterroot Mountains forms part of its eastern border, while part of its 
western border is formed by the Snake River, which flows through Twin Falls and Pocatello. For 10 points, 
name this northwestern state which is the namesake of America's most popular cultivar of potato. 
ANSWER:  
Idaho 
064-12-56-03125 
10. The Tim/Tom complex is found in this organelle that contains an enzyme composed of an F  and F 
0 1 
complex. This organelle's matrix fills the inside of the series of cristae (KRIH-stay) that make up this 
organelle's interior. The presence of DNA in this organelle has led scientists to theorize that like the 
chloroplast it was once a separate organism, known as the endosymbiotic (enh-doh-sim-bie-AH-tick) 
theory. For 10 points, name this organelle, whose role in ATP production causes it to be known as the 
\"powerhouse\" of the cell. 
ANSWER:  
mitochondria 
 [or  
mitochondrion 
] 
002-12-56-03126 
11. One character in this work gets her information from the housekeeper Zillah. Another character in this 
novel gets revenge on Edgar by marrying Edgar's sister Isabella. The main story of this novel is told by the 
housekeeper Nelly Dean to a new tenant at Thrushcross Grange named Mr. Lockwood. Hindley mistreats a 
character who eventually becomes the master of the title manor in this work. For 10 points, name this novel 
about the doomed love of Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff, a work by Emily Bronte. 
ANSWER:  
Wuthering Heights 
023-12-56-03127 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  7 of 10 
12. At constant temperature, the partial derivative of this quantity with respect to volume is equal to the 
partial derivative of pressure with respect to temperature at constant volume according to one of the 
Maxwell relations. This conjugate variable to temperature is proportional to the log of the number of 
microstates. Clausius defined the change in it as the heat over the temperature. It should theoretically be 
zero at absolute zero. For 10 points, name this thermodynamic measure of disorder of a system. 
ANSWER:  
entropy 
 [prompt on  ] 
S 
020-12-56-03128 
13. This anthropologist discussed a ritual plunging into cold water as described by Percival Lowell. In that 
same work, she described  
giri, 
 or self-denial in the name of duty. In that work, she contrasted the “guilt 
culture” with the “shame culture” of a certain country. For 10 points, name this anthropologist who 
practiced “anthropology at a distance” to analyze the culture of Japan in  
The Chrysanthemum and the 
Sword 
 and also wrote  
Patterns of Culture. 
ANSWER: Ruth  
Benedict 
141-12-56-03129 
14. This man worked with Edward Rowan to found the short-lived Stone City Art Colony. He designed the 
then-largest American stained glass window for the Veterans Memorial Building. He painted a horseman 
dashing past a church in  
The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere 
. This artist used his sister Nan and his family 
dentist as models in a painting whose name was inspired by the upper window of a house in the 
background. That painting depicts a woman standing next to a man who holds a pitchfork. For 10 points, 
name this Iowa artist of  
American Gothic 
. 
ANSWER: Grant  
Wood 
015-12-56-03130 
15. This term can also refer to folds of the peritoneum membrane as well as the remnants of tubular 
structures form the fetal period of life. Composed of collagen fibers, they tend to be arranged in crossing 
patterns that prevent too much looseness, although the ones in people with hyperlaxity who are 
double-jointed tend to be longer. For 10 points, name the slightly stretchy, connective tissues similar to 
fasciae and tendons that hold bones together. 
ANSWER:  
ligament 
s 
147-12-56-03131 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL States 2012 
Round 3 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This element blocks NMDA receptors, and it forms a salt with citrate used as an extremely strong 
laxative. In liquid form, this element is used to make titanium in the Kroll process. Eclampsia 
(eh-CLAMP-see-uh) is treated with its sulfate, which is called Epsom salt. It forms a complex with 
phosphate groups in ATP, and it initiates the Calvin cycle by binding to RuBisCo. It is found in Grignard 
(GRIN-yard) reagents and the porphyrin ring of chlorophyll. For 10 points, name this alkaline earth metal 
with symbol Mg. 
ANSWER:  
magnesium 
079-12-56-03132 
2. This playwright created a Chicago mobster who runs a cauliflower racket. This author of  
The Resistible 
Rise of Arturo Ui 
 wrote a play in which the peasant Grusha adopts Michael. In another of his plays, Eilif, 
Katrin, and Swiss Cheese die in the Thirty Years War. This pioneer of epic theater wrote  
The Caucasian 
Chalk Circle 
 and created Mack the Knife in a musical collaboration. For 10 points, name this German 
playwright of  
Mother Courage and Her Children 
 and  
The Threepenny Opera. 
ANSWER: Bertolt  
Brecht 
 [or Eugen Berthold Friedrich  
Brecht 
] 
079-12-56-03133 
3. One of this author’s protagonists has an illegitimate daughter named Briggita, and another has an affair 
with Helen Rolt. Thomas Fowler befriends Alden Pyle during the Indochina War in one of his novels. 
Sarah Miles promises God that she will stop seeing Maurice Bendrix in one novel by this creator of Major 
Scobie. This author of  
The Quiet American 
 also described a mestizo who betrays an unnamed whiskey 
priest. For 10 points, name this Catholic British novelist who wrote  
The Power and the Glory. 
ANSWER: Henry Graham  
Greene 
079-12-56-03134 
4. During this President's first term in office, he vetoed the Maysville Road bill. Another event during his 
presidency was the Petticoat Affair. This President's unofficial advisors were sometimes called the 
\"Kitchen Cabinet.\" This leader ordered government land to be paid for with gold or silver when he issued 
the Specie Circular, directly causing the Panic of 1837. Known for his Indian removal policies, for 10 
points, name this President nicknamed \"Old Hickory\" who appears on the twenty dollar bill. 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Jackson 
126-12-56-03135 
5. One member of this group of element is used to test for the presence of starch. Two atoms of one 
element in this group are bonded to the central carbonyl (car-BAH-nill) group in phosgene (FAHS-jean). 
Astatine is the heaviest member of this group that have the highest electron affinities on the periodic table. 
This is the only group on the period table to have members that are solid, liquid, and gas at room 
temperature. For 10 points, name these elements found in group 17 that include iodine and chlorine. 
ANSWER:  
halogen 
s [accept  
group 17 
 elements before mentioned] 
020-12-56-03136 
What scale measures the wind speed and damage caused by tornadoes with a number between 0 and 5? 
ANSWER:  
Fujita 
-Pearson scale [prompt on   scale] 
F 
020-12-56-03137 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  9 of 10 
This is a calculation question. How many distinct positive, real roots does the polynomial x  - 4x  + x  - 4x 
4 3 2 
- 4 have? 
ANSWER:  
1 
020-12-56-03137 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL States 2012     Round 3     Page  10 of 10 
