VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 3 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. Joseph Brant led a part of this group to settle Quebec. A series of treaties between this group and the 
English was called the Covenant Chain. This group ceded land in the Treaty of Fort Stanwix. The 1722 
Treaty of Albany recognized this group as the Six Nations. Traditionally, this group claimed to have been 
created by an alliance between Dekanawidah and Hiawatha. For 10 points, name this confederation of 
tribes such as the Mohawks and Oneida, a Native American league in upstate New York. 
ANSWER:  
Iroquois 
 League [or  
Iroquois 
 Confederacy; or  
Five Nations 
; or  
Six Nations 
 before mentioned; 
or  
Mohawk 
 before \"Six Nations\"] 
121-12-71-03101 
2. This poet wrote that \"whatever a sun will always sing is you\" in \"i carry your heart with me.\" Though not 
Ernest Hemingway, he described being arrested as an ambulance driver in World War I in  
The Enormous 
Room. 
 One of his poems consists of the words \"a leaf falls\" parenthetically inserted within the word 
\"loneliness.\" He described a character who \"sang his didn't\" and \"danced his did\" in \"anyone lived in a 
pretty how town.\" For 10 points, name this 20th-century American writer who often did not capitalize 
letters in his poems. 
ANSWER: E. E.  
Cummings 
 [or Edward Estlin  
Cummings 
] 
080-12-71-03102 
3. An object in this country named for Augustus Gregory is advertised as the “world’s largest monolith.” 
Its southern portion is home to an almost treeless region called the Nullarbor Plain. One island belonging to 
this country is where the Royal Penguin population goes to breed and is named “Macquarie Island.” This 
country’s central lowlands are home to its largest river systems, the Murray-Darling Basin and the Lake 
Eyre Basin. Off this country’s eastern coast is the Great Barrier Reef. For 10 points, name this country 
which is also the world’s smallest continent. 
ANSWER:  
Australia 
052-12-71-03103 
4. This organelle is the site of pectin synthesis in plants. The GAAP protein is localized in this body, aiding 
the cell in apoptosis control. This organelle interacts with vesicles tagged with the COPII protein. It adds 
mannose-six-phosphate to items intended for the lysosome, and is made up of folds called cisternae. This 
organelle's primary function is packaging proteins and lipids for transport to other parts of the cell. For 10 
points, name this organelle that is named for an Italian scientist. 
ANSWER:  
Golgi 
 body [or  
Golgi 
 apparatus] 
192-12-71-03104 
5. In October 2012, Turkish fighter jets forced an Airbus flying from Moscow into this country to land in 
Ankara after being suspected of carrying \"nonmilitary cargo.\" Riad Hijab is a former prime minister of this 
country, which has seen protests in Hama. Significant points of conflict within this country have been the 
cities of Aleppo and Homs. For 10 points, identify this Middle Eastern country which has witnessed violent 
conflicts between rebels and the regime of Bashar Al-Assad. 
ANSWER:  
Syria 
n Arab Republic [or As- 
Surya 
; or al-Jumhuriyah Al-Arabiyyah As- 
Surya 
] 
189-12-71-03105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  1 of 10 
6. In 1766, this composer became “Kapellmeister,” or music director, for the Esterhazy family. This man 
composed a work in which the last movement features each musician snuffing out a candle and leaving the 
stage. In another of this composer’s works, the second movement is interrupted by a fortissimo chord 
during a quiet piano theme. Several of his works were composed during a visit to England and were known 
as the “London symphonies.” For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the “Farewell” and 
“Surprise” symphonies. 
ANSWER: Franz Joseph  
Haydn 
052-12-71-03106 
7. One leader of this country had his church burned down in the St. Jean Bosco massacre. American forces 
removed a military regime in this country in 1991's Operation Uphold Democracy. A secret police force in 
this country was the Tonton Macoutes. This country was once led by the priest Jean-Bertrand Aristide and 
by the ruthless father and son dictators Papa Doc and Baby Doc Duvalier. For 10 points, name this 
Caribbean country that suffered a devastating earthquake in January 2010. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Haiti 
 [or Republique d' 
Haiti 
; or Repiblik d' 
Ayiti 
] 
052-12-71-03107 
8. This quantity is equal to minus one third times the trace of the stress tensor. The Venturi effect describes 
the reduction of this quantity at a constriction. The internal energy resulting from this is called its namesake 
\"head.\" The term one-half rho v squared is added to this quantity and its gauge variety in an equation 
stating that this quantity decreases as speed increases. By multiplying rho times g times the depth of a 
liquid, one can find the difference between the total amount of this and the atmospheric amount. For 10 
points, name this scalar with units of pascals, defined as the force divided by the area. 
ANSWER:  
pressure 
020-12-71-03108 
9. One member of this discipline, who championed explaining behaviors in context through “thick 
description,” was Clifford Geertz. At Barnard, Zora Neale Hurston was trained in this discipline by its 
American founder Franz Boas, who also taught Margaret Mead. This field pioneered the technique of 
participant observation, which can help practicioners write ethnography. For 10 points, name this social 
science which studies other cultures to learn more about man. 
ANSWER:  
anthropology 
 [or cultural  
anthropology 
; prompt “ethnography” before it is read] 
104-12-71-03109 
10. One character in this novel has cufflinks made out of human molars. The title character of this work 
attended St. Olaf's College and was mentored by Dan Cody. That man's funeral is attended only by 
Owl-Eyes. The narrator deals with Meyer Wolfsheim and dates a female golfer named Jordan Baker. In a 
pivotal scene in this novel, Myrtle Wilson is run over by a car driven by Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, 
name this novel set in West Egg, narrated by Nick Carraway, and written by F. Scott Fitzgerald. 
ANSWER:  
The  Great Gatsby 
192-12-71-03110 
11. This company made a failed attempt at allying with the Pennsylvania Railroad in the South 
Improvement Scheme. Henry Demarest Lloyd exposed this company years before its practices were 
attacked in a series of articles published in  
McClure's 
 in a \"History\" of this company written by Ida Tarbell. 
Founded in Cleveland, this company was broken up into 34 smaller companies in 1911 under the Sherman 
Antitrust Act. For 10 points, name this corporation founded by John D. Rockefeller from which Exxon and 
Mobil were split off. 
ANSWER:  
Standard Oil 
 Company and Trust 
080-12-71-03111 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  2 of 10 
12. A major form of this process, the contact form, can occur in an area called an aureole near a cooling 
pluton. This process is distinct from diagenesis, which occurs at lower temperatures. The other major type 
of this process is regional, which often results in the products of this process being foliated. For 10 points, 
identify this process that transform sedimentary or igneous rocks at high temperatures or pressures. 
ANSWER:  
metamorphism 
066-12-71-03112 
13. At the end of this song's music video, a character played by Holden Nowell gives his number to the 
singer's band-mate, which reveals that he is actually gay. Its singer finished third on  
Canadian Idol 
 and has 
also sung \"This Kiss.\" Parodies of this song include one about sharing cookies by the Cookie Monster, and 
a cover lip-synched by the Harvard baseball team. It begins by saying \"I threw a wish in the well.\" For 10 
points, name this song by Carly Rae Jepsen, where she suggests the title action after saying \"this is crazy, 
but here's my number.\" 
ANSWER: \" 
Call Me Maybe 
\" 
192-12-71-03113 
14. One character in this novel, who owns a dog named Gray, is shot after collapsing while marching and is 
named Platon. Another character's marriage prospects are thwarted by her seduction by Anatole. Much of 
this novel is a series of digressions about the author's theories of history. This novel ends as Natasha 
Rostova marries the protagonist, Pierre Bezukhov, who had earlier participated in the Battle of Borodino. 
For 10 points, name this long novel that includes an account of Napoleon's invasion of Russia, by Leo 
Tolstoy. 
ANSWER:  
War and Peace 
 [or  
Voyna i Mir 
] 
192-12-71-03114 
15. In one poem by this author, the speaker wonders \"was it a vision, or a waking dream?\" after seeing a 
\"light-winged Dryad of the trees\" that \"wast not born for death.\" That poem begins by describing how \"a 
drowsy numbness pains\" the speaker, and another of his poems describes a \"still unravished bride of 
quietness\" and concludes \"beauty is truth, truth beauty, that is all ye need to know on earth, and all ye need 
to know.\" For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of \"Ode to a Nightingale\" and \"Ode on a Grecian Urn.\" 
ANSWER: John  
Keats 
020-12-71-03115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  3 of 10 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 3 
Directed Round 
1A.  What collection, which was translated into English by Richard Burton, features characters such as 
Sinbad, Aladdin, and Ali Baba? 
ANSWER:  
The  Arabian Nights 
 [or  
One Thousand and One Nights 
; or  
The  Arabian Nights' 
Entertainment 
] 
1B.  What swamp is drained by the Suwanee and St. Mary’s rivers and is located in southeastern Georgia 
and northern Florida? 
ANSWER:  
Okefenokee 
 Swamp 
2A.  John Quincy Adams and Henry Clay helped negotiate what treaty that came before the Battle of New 
Orleans and ended the War of 1812? 
ANSWER: Treaty of  
Ghent 
2B.  Which chemist defined acids as electron acceptors, and is also the namesake of certain electron dot 
structures? 
ANSWER: Gilbert Newton  
Lewis 
3A.  What Greek letter names the strongest type of covalent bond in atoms, represents the standard 
deviation of a population, and in its upper-case version, represents summation? 
ANSWER:  
sigma 
3B. What opera, which features the aria \"Summertime,\" is set in Catfish Row and was written by George 
Gershwin? 
ANSWER:  
Porgy and Bess 
4A.  In which comedy does Duke Orsino marry Sebastian's twin, Viola, who pretends to be a man named 
Cesario after being stranded on the coast of Illyria? 
ANSWER:  
Twelfth Night 
4B.  Nearly 25 percent of a European country's population was culled by what agricultural disaster from 
1845 to 1852? 
ANSWER:  
Irish Potato Famine 
 [or  
Great Famine 
; or  
Gorta Mor 
; or  
Drochshaol 
] 
5A.  What range of the electromagnetic spectrum, formerly used for long-distance phone calls and now 
used for television satellites, consists of waves with a wavelength from one millimeter to one meter long, or 
a frequency of three hundred millihertz to three hundred gigahertz? 
ANSWER:  
microwave 
 radiation 
5B.  What mythical creatures, which include Nessus and Chiron, are part human, part horse? 
ANSWER:  
centaurs 
6A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. In a population with mean 64 and standard deviation 2, what 
is the z-score for a data point of 68? 
ANSWER:  
2 
6B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. The combined score of both teams in a football game was 41, 
and the home team won by 7 points. How many points did the losing team score? 
ANSWER:  
17 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  4 of 10 
7A. What literary term is used to describe the repeated usage of sounds at the beginnings of successive 
words or phrases? 
ANSWER:  
alliteration 
7B.  What longest European river flows into the Caspian Sea after meeting the Don River? 
ANSWER:  
Volga 
 River 
8A.  In what 2012 movie sequel does Liam Neeson play a retired CIA agent who rescues his wife from an 
Albanian crime syndicate? 
ANSWER:  
Taken 2 
8B.  During which holy month of the Islamic calendar, whose end is marked by the celebration of Eid 
Al-Fitr, do Muslims engage in fasting every day? 
ANSWER:  
Ramadan 
9A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. A second-quadrant angle has a sine equal to 2/3. Find the 
cosine of that angle. 
ANSWER:  
negative 
 square  
root 
 of  
five 
, all  
over 3 
 [or mathematical equivalents] 
9B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. An isosceles triangle has base 6 and perimeter 30. Find the 
cosine of either base angle. 
ANSWER:  
1/4 
10A.  The Spanish prepositions  
por 
 and  
para 
 can both be translated as what English word? 
ANSWER:  
for 
10B. What curve, defined as the locus of points equidistant from the directrix and focus, is the shape taken 
by a quadratic function? 
ANSWER:  
parabola 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  5 of 10 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 3 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This franchise has retired #12 as a tribute to its fans. One running back for this team broke a 
single-season touchdown record with twenty-eight before landing on the cover of Madden 07. This team 
defeated the Saints in the 2010-11 playoffs despite having a 7-9 regular season record. In one playoff game, 
this team's quarterback Matt Hasselbeck threw an interception after claiming \"we're gonna score,\" while its 
current quarterback is a rookie out of Wisconsin. For 10 points, name this NFC West team that plays in 
Qwest Field, whose current stars include Marshawn Lynch and Russell Wilson. 
ANSWER:  
Seattle 
 Seahawks [or Seattle  
Seahawks 
] 
192-12-71-03117 
2. One's complement is a method of representation in this system. This type of coded decimal can be used 
to display digits on a digital clock. This system has the second-highest radix economy after the ternary 
system. This system names a tree in which each parent node has at most two child nodes. This system is 
easily converted to the octal and hexadecimal systems. The most basic unit of information in this system is 
a bit. For 10 points, identify this numeral system used by computers. 
ANSWER:  
binary 
 numeral system [or  
base-2 
 number system] 
066-12-71-03118 
3. This man's \"April Theses\" called for open opposition to the Provisional Government. This leader called 
for the formation of a \"revolutionary vanguard\" in his pamphlet  
What Is To Be Done? 
 This man replaced a 
policy of War Communism with his New Economic Policy to save the Russian economy. This leader 
established the Cheka, a secret police force that became part of the NKVD under Joseph Stalin. For 10 
points, name this leader of the Bolshevik Revolution. 
ANSWER: Vladimir Ilich  
Lenin 
 [or Vladimir Ilich  
Ulyanov 
] 
186-12-71-03119 
4. This character observes Mrs. Dilber taking his stolen possessions to sell to a fence named Old Joe. At the 
end of the work in which he appears, he visits his nephew Fred and orders a turkey to be delivered to his 
employee. Formerly apprenticed to Mr. Fezziwig, this man once partnered with the recently deceased Jacob 
Marley, and after a supernatural visit, this character is encouraged to treat Bob Cratchit and Tiny Tim 
better. For 10 points, name this miser, the protagonist of Charles Dickens’s novella  
A Christmas Carol. 
ANSWER: Ebenezer  
Scrooge 
 [or  
Ebenezer 
 Scrooge] 
052-12-71-03120 
5. One mathematical object named for this scientist is equal to the Ricci tensor minus one half times the 
curvature times the metric tensor. Along with Satyendra Bose, he theorized a state of matter occurring near 
absolute zero. One of his theories introduced the concepts of length contraction and time dilation as well as 
the mass-energy equivalence. For 10 points, name this German physicist who developed the theories of 
general and special relativity. 
ANSWER: Albert  
Einstein 
014-12-71-03121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  6 of 10 
6. In this poem, Apollo comes down from heaven to persuade a young hero to withdraw with the line, 
\"Thus one goes to the stars.\" The antagonist of this poem declares, \"Fortune favors the bold!\" and takes the 
belt of Pallas after killing him. This work's pious hero slays Turnus, descends to the underworld to speak 
with Anchises, and has a lengthy dalliance with the Carthaginian queen Dido. It follows a Trojan prince 
who goes to Italy so that his descendants can found Rome. For 10 points, name this Latin epic written by 
Vergil. 
ANSWER: the  
Aeneid 
 [or  
Aeneis 
] 
080-12-71-03122 
7. St. Peter’s Basilica holds this artist’s sculpture of Mary holding the dead body of Jesus, one of the most 
well-known  
Pieta 
s. This artist also sculpted into a naked man with a sling over his shoulder before a battle 
with Goliath. This creator of that marble  
David 
 portrayed himself in skin held by St. Bartholomew in his 
painting  
The Last Judgement 
. For 10 points, name this Renaissance artist who painted two fingers nearly 
touching in  
The Creation of Adam 
, one of his frescoes on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. 
ANSWER:  
Michelangelo 
023-12-71-03123 
8. Some treatments of this disease use drugs that inhibit monoamine oxidase-B. This condition is partly 
caused by the destruction of the substantia nigra due to the buildup of Lewy Bodies. Symptoms of this 
condition include dementia and a still facial expression. This disease is treated by L-Dopa because it often 
features a decrease in dopamine pathway action. For 10 points, name this neurological disease, sometimes 
called \"shaking palsy,\" associated with the inhibition of motor skills. 
ANSWER:  
Parkinson's 
 disease 
192-12-71-03124 
9. The protagonist of this work disdains younger men who say \"el mar\" instead of \"la mar\" and attempts to 
deal with the pain in his hand by thinking of a day-long arm-wrestling match he won. In this story, \"the 
boy,\" Manolin, is forbidden to accompany a man considered  
salao 
 for his eighty-four-day streak of bad 
luck. Despite fending off many sharks, the protagonist of this work, Santiago, must give up the giant marlin 
he catches. For 10 points, name this novella about a Cuban fisherman by Ernest Hemingway. 
ANSWER:  
The  Old Man and the Sea 
080-12-71-03125 
10. An arch in this painting features tiles based on those in the ceiling of the Vatican Palace. Two giant 
statues of Apollo and Athena stand in the background of this painting, which features a sly self-portrait 
staring at the viewer on the far right. A man in blue reclines on a staircase in this painting, which features 
Plato and Aristotle arguing in its center. For 10 points, name this painting by Raphael that shows an array 
of philosophers, scientists, and artists from across history in the title Greek city. 
ANSWER:  
The  School of Athens 
192-12-71-03126 
11. These molecules release acetyl CoA through beta oxidation. The position of double bonds in these 
molecules can be described using either delta notation or omega notation. Although most of those double 
bonds are  
cis 
 in nature, processed foods can contain a \"kink\" in these molecules due to  
trans 
 double bonds. 
For 10 points, name this class of carboxylic acids that contain long hydrocarbon chains and are often found 
in oils. 
ANSWER:  
fatty acid 
s [or  
unsaturated fatty acid 
s; prompt on  
fat 
; prompt on  
lipids 
] 
003-12-71-03127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  7 of 10 
12. One portion of this document concerned the removal of fish-weirs from waterways, and another portion 
of this document concerns the levying of \"scutage\" money. This document was signed a year after the 
Battle of Bouvines, and one of its clauses led to the First Barons' War. This document codified the right of 
habeas corpus and limited the power of the English throne. For 10 points, identify this document signed by 
King John at Runnymeade in 1215 that has a name in Latin meaning \"Great Charter.\" 
ANSWER:  
Magna Carta 
 [or  
Great Charter 
 before read] 
189-12-71-03128 
13. One thinker from this philosophical movement discussed Johannes de Silentio's complicated courtship 
of Cordelia in a section of his  
Either/Or 
. Another thinker from this movement discussed the deliberate 
actions of a waiter in explaining \"bad\" faith; that thinker from this movement wrote  
Being and Nothingness 
. For 10 points, identify this philosophical movement associated with Soren Kierkegaard and Jean-Paul 
Sartre, which deals in part with the nature of the individual's existence. 
ANSWER:  
existentialism 
 [accept word forms; accept an early buzz of  
Christian existentialism 
] 
189-12-71-03129 
14. This set is represented by a blackboard letter Z. Diophantine equations are those which allow only 
solutions from this set of numbers. The floor function gives the largest number from this set that is less than 
the function's input. The positive types of these are the natural numbers. Rational numbers are those which 
can be written as a finite ratio of these numbers. For 10 points, name this set of whole numbers and their 
negatives. 
ANSWER:  
integer 
s 
121-12-71-03130 
15. This country hired lobbyists to oppose the passage of the Magnitsky Bill. Hillary Clinton presented this 
country with a button marked \"overcharge\" that was meant to say \"reset.\" In 2010, it signed the New 
START treaty with the US. In March 2012, Barack Obama was caught on an open mike telling its president 
he would \"have more flexibility\" after the election. This country has repeatedly vetoed Security Council 
resolutions to intervene in Syria. For 10 points, name this country where Dmitri Medvedev was succeeded 
as president by Vladimir Putin. 
ANSWER:  
Russia 
080-12-71-03131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  8 of 10 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2 
Round 3 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. The enzyme which produces this molecule includes a gamma subunit connecting its F0 and F1 
complexes. This molecule is produced by a namesake synthase and is used up in processes such as active 
transport. Glycolysis results in the production of two of these molecules, whose energy is released by the 
breaking of a phosphate bond. For 10 points, identify this molecule which is known as the \"energy 
currency\" of cells. 
ANSWER:  
ATP 
 [or  
adenosine triphosphate 
] 
189-12-71-03132 
2. This group was reconstituted in 1915 from members of the Knights of Mary Phagan under the leadership 
of William Simmons. Some members of this group murdered Viola Liuzzo. Other members of this group 
killed 4 young girls by perpetrating the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing. This organization, whose first 
leader was Nathan Bedford Forrest, had ranks including \"Grand Cyclops\" and \"Grand Wizard.\" For 10 
points, name this Southern organization whose white-robed members terrorized blacks during 
Reconstruction. 
ANSWER: Ku Klux  
Klan 
 [or  
KKK 
] 
080-12-71-03133 
3. This scientist names a museum that is located at St. Mary’s Hospital where he made his most notable 
discovery. This man modestly praised his partners Howard Florey and Ernest Boris Chain for their work in 
his most famous discovery. He himself dismissed the popular story that he saved the young Winston 
Churchill from death. This man’s most famous discovery came after he grew a mould while studying 
staphylococci. For 10 points, name this Scottish biologist who discovered the antibiotic penicillin. 
ANSWER: Sir Alexander  
Fleming 
052-12-71-03134 
4. One member of this family is calmed down by a reading of the “Mad Trist,” a work of Sir Launcelot 
Canning. A member of this family sings the poem “The Haunted Palace” to his boyhood friend. That 
member of this family is hypersensitive to light and sound, while his twin falls into deathlike trances. One 
member of this family, Roderick, buries alive his twin sister, Madeline, and their home is last seen being 
broken in two as the narrator escapes. For 10 points, name this literary family created by Edgar Allan Poe 
in a story about the fall of their house. 
ANSWER:  
Usher 
052-12-71-03135 
5. Malcolm McKenna and Susan Bell developed a scheme for organizing this class of organisms. It is 
divided into the subclasses Theria and Prototheria, and one of its largest orders, Chiroptera, uses 
echolocation to find food. Organisms in this class feature a structure primarily made of pyramidal neurons, 
the neocortex. This class includes monotremes and rodents, and most of them give birth to their young live. 
For 10 points, name this class of vertebrates whose members have a set of namesake milk-producing 
glands. 
ANSWER:  
Mammalia 
 [or  
mammals 
] 
192-12-71-03136 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  9 of 10 
Which leader, known as the \"scourge of God,\" was the brother of Bleda and the most famous leader of the 
Huns? 
ANSWER:  
Attila 
 the Hun 
This is a 20-second calculation question. If you roll two fair, six-sided die, what is the chance that the sum 
of those two die is less than four? 
ANSWER:  
1/12 
 [or  
3/36 
] 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 2 of 2     3     Page  10 of 10 
