VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 12 
First Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This author’s longest play opens with a prologue in the theater between a manager, a poet, and a clown. 
His prose works include the bildungsroman  
Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship 
 and an epistolary novel 
about a youth who shoots himself out of unrequited love for Lotte (LAH-tuh). This author of  
The Sorrows 
of Young Werther 
 (VAIR-ter) also created a scholar who impregnates and abandons Gretchen after making 
a pact with Mephistopheles (meff-ih-STAH-fuh-lees). For 10 points, name this German writer of the 
two-part drama  
Faust. 
ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von  
Goethe 
 (GURR-tuh) 
014-12-70-12101 
2. The probability that this law is seemingly violated on small scales is given by the fluctuation theorem, 
which was used to explain away Loschmidt's paradox. One method of stating it sets the line integral of dQ 
over T around a closed path as equal to or less than zero, which is called Clausius' theorem. This law limits 
the maximum possible efficiency for a Carnot (CAR-nough) engine and rules out the possibility of a 
perpetual motion machine. For 10 points, name this law which states that the entropy of a closed system 
always increases. 
ANSWER:  
second law of thermodynamics 
 [accept obvious equivalents] 
048-12-70-12102 
3. An expedition of this force prompted a speech at Tilbury by a woman who claimed to \"have the heart 
and stomach of a king.\" This force was prevented from meeting up with troops of the Duke of Parma at the 
Battle of Gravelines, where it was defeated by Francis Drake. Storms that blew this force off course were 
called the \"Protestant Wind\" by this force's English enemies. For 10 points, name this Spanish fleet that 
failed to invade England in 1588. 
ANSWER: Spanish  
Armada 
 [or Invincible  
Armada 
; or  
Armada 
 Espanola; or  
Armada 
 Invencible] 
121-12-70-12103 
4. This organelle is responsible for O-linked glycosylation of the proteoglycans used in the extracellular 
matrix. The subject of the vesicular transport model, this organelle has a \"cis\" phase and a \"trans\" face and 
is made up of a number of stacks called \"cisternae.\" Its functions include modifying and sorting proteins 
delivered in vesicles from the endoplasmic reticulum. For 10 points, name this organelle named for an 
Italian scientist, where various molecules are \"packaged\" for delivery. 
ANSWER: the  
Golgi 
 apparatus [or  
Golgi 
 bodies] 
080-12-70-12104 
5. This author wrote about Joel Harrison Knox being sent to live with his father at Skully’s Landing in  
Other Voices, Other Rooms. 
 He is thought to have been the basis for Dill in  
To Kill a Mockingbird 
 because 
of his friendship with Harper Lee. This author wrote a novel which follows the New York life of Holly 
Golightly, and he wrote about the real life murder of the Clutter family in another work. For 10 points, 
name this author of  
Breakfast at Tiffany’s 
 and  
In Cold Blood. 
ANSWER: Truman  
Capote 
 [or Truman Streckfus  
Persons 
] 
015-12-70-12105 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  1 of 9 
6. This animal names a short needle attached to a flexible tube and flanked by two rubber appendages. Both 
Bates and Muller discovered their namesake types of mimicry while studying these animals. Their pupal 
stage is known as the chrysalis. Due to their sensitivity to initial conditions, chaotic systems are said to 
exhibit an effect named for them. For 10 points, identify these animals whose larval form, like moths, is the 
caterpillar. 
ANSWER:  
butterfly 
066-12-70-12106 
7. This scientist names a type of reflecting telescope with a concave primary mirror and flat diagonal 
secondary mirror and was the first fully functional one. One law named for this man has a proportionality 
constant that was measured with a torsion balance by Cavendish. That law governs a solely attractive 
inverse-square force. Another of his results states that force is equal to mass times acceleration. For 10 
points, name this man who outlined three laws of motion in his  
Principia Mathematica 
. 
ANSWER: Isaac  
Newton 
048-12-70-12107 
8. In this play, Si Crowell repaces his older brother Joe as the paper boy, and Mrs. Soames likes to gossip 
about the drunken antics of the choirmaster Simon Stimson. The third act of this play takes place in a 
cemetery, where the protagonist speaks from the grave after dying in childbirth. It concerns the courtship 
and marriage of George Gibbs and Emily Webb in the small town of Grover’s Corners. For 10 points, 
name this play which is narrated by a Stage Manager, a work by Thornton Wilder. 
ANSWER:  
Our Town 
015-12-70-12108 
9. One of these locations features a semicircular portion known as the Garganta del Diablo, or Devil's 
Throat. Another one of these sites starts on the Auyan-Tepui, or Devil's Mountain, and was named for an 
American who crash-landed his plane nearby. The largest one of these sites creates a mist that led it to be 
named \"The Smoke that Thunders\" and occurs along the course of the Zambezi River. Iguazu, Angel, and 
Victoria all name, for 10 points, what areas of rapidly descending rivers? 
ANSWER:  
waterfall 
s 
023-12-70-12109 
10. The majority of the standard array of these things were developed by Maurice Hilleman. Max Theiler 
remains the only person to win a Nobel for developing one of these things. The development of the most 
successful of these saw a little boy variolated after being injected with pus from a milkmaid's blisters. That 
one was developed by Edward Jenner using what we now know to be cowpox. For 10 points, identify these 
things used to confer immunity to infectious agents and which include the smallpox one. 
ANSWER: viral  
vaccine 
s 
066-12-70-12110 
11. This man founded a law practice with Oliver Tambo and delivered the \"I Am Prepared to Die\" speech 
during the Rivonia Trial. For his activities as a leader of the Spear of the Nation, he was imprisoned at 
Robben Island. This man established the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate human rights 
abuses under a certain policy. In the 1990s, his negotiations with F.W. de Klerk successfully ended 
apartheid. For 10 points, name this first black president of South Africa. 
ANSWER: Nelson Rolihlahla  
Mandela 
014-12-70-12111 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  2 of 9 
12. The unnamed narrator of one story by this author barely escapes an Inquisition torture device when rats 
gnaw through his ropes. He wrote another story in which the narrator turns himself into the police when he 
hears the beating of the title object under his floorboards. This author of “The Pit and the Pendulum” and 
“The Tell-Tale Heart” also wrote about Montresor, who takes revenge on Fortunato by bricking him in. For 
10 points, name this American author of “The Cask of Amontillado.” 
ANSWER: Edgar Allan  
Poe 
015-12-70-12112 
13. At St. Augustine's Church, this organization initiated its Free Breakfast for Children program. One 
leader of this organization described how he raped women as an act of rebellion in his book  
Soul on Ice 
. 
This group used the phrase \"What We Want What We Believe\" to preface their Ten-Point program. This 
organization was led for a time by Eldridge Cleaver and was founded by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale in 
Oakland. For 10 points, name this radical black nationalist organization. 
ANSWER:  
Black Panther 
 Party for Self-Defense 
020-12-70-12113 
14. This author compared Mary Datchet and Katharine Hilbery in her novel  
Night and Day. 
 One novel by 
this author concludes with Lily Briscoe finishing her painting and the long-awaited trip to the title location 
by what remains of the Ramsay family. Another of her novels depicts the suicide of Septimus Smith and a 
party thrown by the title woman. For 10 points, name this female modernist author of  
To the Lighthouse 
and  
Mrs. Dalloway. 
ANSWER: Virginia  
Woolf 
 [or Adeline Virginia  
Woolf 
] 
191-12-70-12114 
15. This artist tried to downplay his youthful apprenticeship to Ghirlandaio. He painted a self-portrait as the 
flayed St. Bartholomew in his fresco of  
The Last Judgment 
. In one of his paintings, the outstretched hand of 
Adam nearly touches the index finger of a reaching God. That fresco,  
The Creation of Adam 
, is the most 
famous of the paintings this artist did for the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. For 10 points, name this 
Renaissance artist who also sculpted a marble  
David 
. 
ANSWER:  
Michelangelo 
015-12-70-12115 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  3 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 12 
Directed Round 
1A.  What Italian sculptor created the first free-standing nude since antiquity with his bronze statue of 
David? 
ANSWER:  
Donatello 
1B.  A 1908 race riot in this city led to the founding of the NAACP. Name this state capital, also the home 
of Abraham Lincoln’s tomb. 
ANSWER:  
Springfield 
, Illinois 
2A.  In which U.S. state is Todd Akin, who was criticized for remarks about rape, running for Senate 
against incumbent Claire McCaskill? 
ANSWER:  
Missouri 
2B.  This is a 20-second calculation question. Consider a normal distribution with a mean of 50 and a 
standard deviation of 10. What is the z-score for a value of 35? 
ANSWER:  
-1.5 
 [or  
negative 3/2 
] 
3A.  This is a 20-second calculation question. What values of A and B satisfy the equation (3+5x^2+9x) * 
(3x -2x+1) = 15x  + 17x  +Ax  + Bx + B. 
2 4 3 2 
ANSWER:  
A = -4 
 and  
B = 3 
3B.  Which branch of economics focuses on measuring and studying the operations of an entire economy 
rather than the role of individual players within the economy? 
ANSWER:  
macroeconomics 
4A.  Newton's method, polynomial factoring, and the quadratic formula are all ways to compute what 
values for a function? 
ANSWER:  
roots 
 [or  
zeros 
] 
4B.  What character from American folklore has a giant axe and owns a blue ox named Babe? 
ANSWER:  
Paul Bunyan 
5A.  Name the brass instrument played by jazz composer and bandleader Glenn Miller. 
ANSWER:  
trombone 
5B.  What branch of Buddhism popular in Japan favors quiet meditation and riddle-like koans? 
ANSWER:  
Zen 
 Buddhism 
6A.  King Letsie III occasionally intervenes in politics in what country, which is entirely surrounded by 
South Africa? 
ANSWER:  
Lesotho 
6B.  Immanuel Kant’s  
Critique of Judgment 
 is considered a foundational text in what subfield of 
philosophy, which analyzes questions such as the definition of art and whether there is an objective 
standard of beauty? 
ANSWER:  
aesthetics 
 [or  
aesthetic 
 philosophy; prompt on  
philosophy of art 
] 
7A.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the volume, in terms of pi, of a sphere of radius 5/2? 
ANSWER:  
125/6 pi 
 units 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  4 of 9 
7B.  This is a 30-second calculation question. What is the area of a parallelogram with length and width 
both equal to 6 and an angle of 135 degrees? 
ANSWER:  
18 root 2 
 square units [or  
18 radical 2 
 square units] 
8A.  Octavia Spencer won an Oscar for playing Minny Jackson in what 2011 movie documenting the lives 
of Mississippi domestic workers? 
ANSWER:  
The Help 
8B.  What Alawite dictator of Syria has used the plain-clothed Shabiha to assault protesters against his 
regime? 
ANSWER: Bashar al- 
Assad 
9A.  Chuck D and Flavor Flav were members of what pioneering rap group whose songs included \"Fight 
the Power\" and \"He Got Game?\" 
ANSWER:  
Public Enemy 
9B.  Name the Jewish American author of  
Portnoy's Complaint 
 and  
American Pastoral. 
ANSWER: Philip  
Roth 
 [or Philip Milton  
Roth 
] 
10A.  Name the war in which Matthew Ridgway replaced Douglas MacArthur in command after a 
successful landing by American forces at Inchon. 
ANSWER:  
Korean 
 War 
10B.  What scientist restructured the periodic table by moving the lanthanides and actinides below the main 
body? 
ANSWER: Glenn  
Seaborg 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  5 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 12 
Third Period, Fifteen Tossups 
1. This condition is linked with the phosphorylation of a microtubule assembling protein called tau, which 
ultimately leads to the development of neurofibrillary tangles. This disease is also linked with deficiencies 
in the synthesis of acetylcholine. In general, this disease is characterized by complications in the 
cytoskeletons of neurons in the cerebral cortex. For 10 points, identify this disease characterized by loss of 
memory and dementia, named for a German. 
ANSWER:  
Alzheimer 
's disease 
189-12-70-12117 
2. This form follows clauses such as \"dudar que\" (doo-DAR kay) and \"en cuanto (en QUAN-toe)\" in 
impersonal expressions. When creating this verb form, an indicative verb whose infinitive form ends in 
\"c-a-r\" changes the \"c\" to \"q-u\" before \"e.\" Regular -\"ir\" verbs take endings that start with \"a\" and \"-ar\" 
verbs take endings that start with \"e\" in this mood. For 10 points, identify this Spanish verb mood that is 
also used to express doubt, uncertainty, and other situations not described by the indicative mood. 
ANSWER: Spanish  
subjunctive 
 mood [or  
subjuntivo 
] 
019-12-70-12118 
3. This player’s first coach, Jerry Glanville, said it would take a plane crash to have this man crack the 
Atlanta Falcons starting roster. Replacing Don Majkowski at his most famous team, he threw for four 
touchdowns in a 2003 game a day after his father died. Claiming to retire in 2008, he came back and played 
for both the Jets and the Vikings. For 10 points, name this man who spent over a decade as the quarterback 
for the Green Bay Packers and is the NFL’s leader in touchdown passes. 
ANSWER: Brett Lorenzo  
Favre 
052-12-70-12119 
4. One poem by this author tells of an Assyrian army that \"came down like the wolf on the fold.\" In 
addition to \"The Destruction of Sennacherib,\" this author wrote an epic poem in which the title character 
pursues a romance with Haidee after fleeing Spain. A poem by this author notes how \"all that's best of dark 
and bright meet in her aspect and her eyes,\" describing a woman who is \"like the night of cloudless climes 
and starry skies.\" For 10 points, name this British Romantic poet of  
Don Juan 
 who died in Greece. 
ANSWER: George Gordon, Lord  
Byron 
194-12-70-12120 
5. This organ is responsible for absorbing vitamin B12 because of its production of intrinsic factor with 
parietal cells. The mucosal lining of this organ can become the residence of  
H. pylori 
, which causes ulcers. 
This organ is connected to the duodenum by the pyloric sphincter. For 10 points, identify this digestive 
organ that uses enzymes and strong acids to break down food, and which is located between the esophagus 
and small intestine in humans. 
ANSWER:  
stomach 
066-12-70-12121 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  6 of 9 
6. The perpetrator of this event was initially arrested for killing J.D. Tippitt. Abraham Zapruder supplied 
the best known film of this event, in which Governor John Connally was wounded. Jack Ruby fatally shot 
the man responsible for this event, which was the focus of the Warren Commission. This shooting is 
believed to have occurred from the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository. For 10 points, name 
this November 22, 1963, event that resulted in the death of the 35th US President. 
ANSWER:  
assassination 
 of  ohn Fitzgerald  
J Kennedy 
 [or  
assassination of JFK 
; accept other words for 
\"assassination\" such as  
killing 
; prompt on  
assassination of Kennedy 
] 
131-12-70-12122 
7. The baryon-to-photon ratio can be used to compute the products of the nucleosynthesis predicted by this 
theory. As originally posited, this theory suffers from the flatness, horizon, and monopole problems, which 
prompted Guth and Linde to develop inflation. This theory, which was partly confirmed by Penzias and 
Wilson's discovery of the CMB, was originally posited by Lemaitre after Hubble discovered redshift. For 
10 points, name this theory which states that a singularity of infinite density and temperature exploded into 
the universe. 
ANSWER:  
big bang 
 theory 
048-12-70-12123 
8. This character speaks with unusual affection to his mentor Brunetto Latini, and his companion protects 
him from Malacoda. Later in his narrative, he describes a man who holds his severed head in front of him 
like a lantern named Bertran de Born. Initially pursued by a leopard, a lion, and a she-wolf, this character is 
guided by Beatrice through Paradise after traversing Purgatory and Hell with Virgil. For 10 points, name 
this protagonist and author of  
The Divine Comedy. 
ANSWER:  
Dante 
 Alighieri [or Dante  
Alighieri 
] 
014-12-70-12124 
9. Augustin de Candolle demonstrated these phenomena using the action of a plant's leaves. These 
phenomena can be shifted by stimulating the suprachiasmatic nuclei in the hypothalamus, and they are 
influenced by cues known as zeitgebers. These phenomena are partially influenced by melatonin, though 
they are more heavily influenced by environmental cues such as light. For 10 points, identify these 
\"biological clocks\" which influence our daily cycles and sleep patterns. 
ANSWER:  
circadian rhythm 
s 
189-12-70-12125 
10. Noah Claypole torments the protagonist of this novel when he works in the home of Sowerberry the 
undertaker. Mr. Bumble gives a locket to the protagonist's half-brother, Monks, who tries to take him away 
from Rose Maylie and Mr. Brownlow. This novel's protagonist first meets Brownlow when he is caught 
stealing a handkerchief under the guidance of the Artful Dodger. For 10 points, name this novel by Charles 
Dickens whose title orphan famously asks for more food at the workhouse. 
ANSWER:  
Oliver Twist 
121-12-70-12126 
11. This substance's \"pillow\" type is formed underwater. Another type of this substance advances as a 
series of toes and lobes extruding from a cooled crust and is pahoehoe (pa-HO-ay-HO-ay). This non-solid 
substance can be classified into felsic, intermediate, mafic and ultramafic. When this substance solidifies, it 
forms igneous rock. For 10 points, identify this term for molten rock above the Earth's surface, which is 
expelled in many volcanic eruptions. 
ANSWER:  
lava 
 [prompt on  
magma 
] 
066-12-70-12127 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  7 of 9 
12. Pope Alexander II ordered the construction of Battle Abbey as penance for the bloodshed in this battle. 
The loser in this battle had defeated Harrald Hardrada two weeks earlier at the Battle of Stamford Bridge. 
This battle is depicted on the Bayeux (buy-YOU) Tapestry, which depicts Halley's Comet and Harold 
Godwinson taking an arrow to the eye. This battle resulted in Norman control over England. For 10 points, 
name this 1066 victory of William the Conqueror. 
ANSWER: Battle of  
Hastings 
015-12-70-12128 
13. These devices contain parallel concentric, or spiral, tracks, which are divided into blocks. The time it 
takes the actuator arm to move the head to a track is the seek time of these devices. One type of failure in 
these devices occurs when that read/write head comes into contact with a rotating platter, which is coated 
with a magnetic oxide. For 10 points, name these secondary, or non-volatile, storage devices devices that 
commonly come in sizes of two point five and three point five inches. 
ANSWER:  
hard 
 disk  
drive 
 [or  
HDD 
; or  
disk drive 
; or  
computer disk 
] 
066-12-70-12129 
14. This composer responded to the death of his daughter Maria with a song cycle setting poems by 
Friedrich Rückert, entitled  
Kindertotenlieder. 
 This composer set German translations of poems by Li Bo in 
his unnumbered symphony  
Das Lied von der Erde. 
 His eighth symphony in E-flat major is often 
nicknamed for the large chorus it calls for. For 10 points, name this early 20th-century Austrian composer 
of the “Symphony of a Thousand.” 
ANSWER: Gustav  
Mahler 
014-12-70-12130 
15. The \"D-\" and \"L-\" configurations of these molecules are distinguished in the Fischer Projection. The 
absence of these compounds can force the body into ketosis and accelerate the breakdown of proteins into 
amino acids for use in gluconeogenesis. More complex examples of these compounds are built up from 
several of them linked by glycosidic bonds. These compounds include chitin and starches. For 10 points, 
name these molecules including glucose and other sugars that are made up of hydrogen, oxygen, and 
carbon. 
ANSWER:  
Carbohydrates 
 [or  
sugars 
 before it is read; or  
saccharides 
 before it is read; or poly 
saccharides 
; or di 
saccharides 
; or mono 
saccharides 
] 
080-12-70-12131 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  8 of 9 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2 
Round 12 
Tiebreaker Questions 
1. This President allegedly had an African-American ancestor according to William Chancellor. As 
President, this man established the Bureau of Veteran Affairs in addition to releasing Eugene Debs from 
prison. This man campaigned on the promise of a \"return to normalcy.\" His presidency was hurt by Albert 
Fall's leasing of oil reserves in the Teapot Dome Scandal. For 10 points, name this President who came into 
office after World War I and Woodrow Wilson. 
ANSWER: Warren Gamaliel  
Harding 
149-12-70-12132 
2. August Kohler developed an optimal method of illumination for use with the simplest type of this device. 
Another type of this device uses a sputter coater to make samples conductive and is the scanning electron 
type. A cover slip is placed over a slide to hold a specimen for viewing with the simplest type of this 
device. Extensive observations with this device were made by Anton van Leeuwenhoek . For 10 points, 
identify these devices used to magnify objects too small for the human eye to see, such as bacteria. 
ANSWER:  
microscope 
066-12-70-12133 
3. After this event, one perpetrator attempted to commit suicide by consuming a cyanide pill and jumping 
into a shallow river. This event took place during a military inspection near the Latin Bridge, and it was 
perpetrated by a member of the Black Hand. One casualty in this action was Duchess Sophie. After this 
event, several European powers mobilized their armies. For 10 points, identify this incident perpetrated by 
Gavrilo Princip that ultimately led to World War I. 
ANSWER:  
assassination 
 of Archduke  
Franz Ferdinand 
 [accept equivalents for \"assassination\"; accept 
additional information mentioning Duchess Sophie] 
189-12-70-12134 
4. In F. Scott Fitzgerald’s “Babylon Revisited,” a resident of this city named Charlie Wales tries to get 
back his daughter Honoria. Hemingway’s  
A Moveable Feast 
 is set here, as is  
The Autobiography of Alice B. 
Toklas. 
 Gertrude Stein described some residents of this city as a “lost generation,” referring to the group of 
expatriate American artists and writers who came to live here after World War I. For 10 points, name this 
European capital. 
ANSWER:  
Paris 
015-12-70-12135 
5. This character resolves to have bloody thoughts after he passes a group of soldiers heading to Poland to 
dispute a worthless piece of land. This character decides not to kill his enemy at prayer, since that would 
send him to heaven. After shouting, \"How now, a rat?\" he blindly thrusts his sword through an arras, killing 
Polonius. This character declares Prince Fortinbras to be his successor as he dies in Horatio’s arms after 
killing Claudius. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean Prince of Denmark. 
ANSWER:  
Hamlet 
153-12-70-12136 
This is a calculation question. What are the roots of the polynomial x  + 12x + 36 = 0? 
2 
ANSWER: x =   [or  
-6 -6 and -6 
] 
This layer marks the transition from the mixed surface water layer to the deep water layer. In what layer of 
water does water temperature decrease rapidly with depth? 
ANSWER:  
thermocline 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
VHSL Regular Season 2013 Part 1 of 2     12     Page  9 of 9 
