2015 NSC - Official Scoresheet
Round

05

Room

Bracket
Reader

Team

Team

Player
Names

Q#

Bonus

Steals

Ques.
Total

Run.
Score

Bonus

Steals

Ques.
Total

Run.
score

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
TB1
TB2
TB3
SD
Player
20s
Player
10s
Point
totals

Final
score
Out:
Out:

Substitutions before Tossup 11
In:
In:

Out:
Out:

Substitutions before Tossup 11
In:
In:

Circle winning team above. Clearly mark if game goes to OT/SD. Fill out “Point totals” row completely.
If there are substitutions, please note tossups by each player in “20s” and “10s” rows. Below is for Tab Room use only:

RH

RS

BH

BS

Left

Right

BH

BS

RH

RS

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 1 of 13

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Tossups
1. This group is represented by a dove in the Book of the Three Birds, written by a Welsh member of this
group named Morgan Llwyd (HLOO-id). A member of this religious group adopted the pseudonym
"Martin Marprelate" to pen a series of attacks against authorities. A thousand of them presented the king
with the Millenary Petition, enabling them to receive a voice at the Hampton Court Conference. The
mortal enemy of this religious group was William (*) Laud, the Archbishop of Canterbury. Between 1620 and
1640, large numbers of these people left England for Holland, though many were dissatisfied with their lives there.
For 10 points, name these English Protestants who settled in New England, whose name is now synonymous with
extreme straight-laced piety.
ANSWER: Puritans [or Separatists; prompt on Protestants; prompt on Nonconformists; prompt on
Dissenters] <Gupta>
2. This person once poisons a mantle richly decorated with precious stones, but the gift is not delivered
since its bearer is burnt to coals. In another story, this person makes a replica of an object that protects its
bearer from dying from blood loss, giving the real one to Sir Accalon of Gaul. This person is described
peddling healing ointments at the wedding of Erec and Enide by Chretien de Troyes, who calls her a
"chief physician." This unhappy wife of Urien gives her name to a (*) mirage seen off the coast of Sicily. She
unsuccessfully competes for the affection of Lancelot with Guinevere. Along with Morgause, this woman is a
daughter of Igraine and Gorlois, making her a half sister to Arthur. For 10 points, name this wicked sorceress in
Arthurian myth.
ANSWER: Morgan le Fey [or Morgane; or Morgaine; or Fata Morgana] <Gupta>
3. An annual festival devoted to this dance is held in the Finnish town of Seinajoki, which was hit by a
worldwide craze over this dance in 1913. The International and American styles of this dance are
characterized by an 8-count basic step. Music for this dance often features a bandoneón, a type of
accordion imported from Germany. The French-born Carlos Gardel was its leading vocalist during the
early 20th century, and its popular tunes include (*) "El Choclo" and "La Cumparsita," the latter of which is
danced by Jack Lemmon in Some Like it Hot. Astor Piazzola blended it with jazz and classical music, and it was
popularized in the U.S. by Rudolph Valentino in Four Horseman of the Apocalypse. For 10 points, name this partner
dance from Argentina and Uruguay.
ANSWER: tango <Rosenberg>
4. During the 1960 presidential campaign, a woman with this married name was telephoned by John F.
Kennedy after her husband was jailed for driving with an out-of-state license. George Holliday videotaped
a notorious action carried out against a man with this last name by Stacey Koon. A man with this surname
gave the controversial speech, "Beyond Vietnam: A Time to Break Silence" in 1967. That same man never
had a chance to organize a (*) Poor People's March after stopping over to support a strike by sanitation workers.
The acquittal of police officers who beat a man with this surname sparked riots that damaged much of Koreatown
in LA in 1992. For 10 points, give this surname shared by the man shot by James Earl Ray and who gave the "I
Have a Dream" speech.
ANSWER: King [or Coretta Scott King; or Rodney King; or Martin Luther King, Jr.]<Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 2 of 13

5. The metacentric point is the intersection of two vectors representing this force. This force is represented
by the isothermal compressibility times temperature difference between surroundings and surface in the
numerator of the Grashof number, which compares it to viscous forces. The magnitude of this force is
assumed not to be constant in the Boussinesq approximation. In a gas, the neutral type of this force
exactly balances (*) gravity. This force opposes the direction of the hydrostatic pressure gradient, and its
magnitude equals the density times gravity times the volume of an object. The center of this force must be close to
the center of gravity for a ship to be stable. For 10 points, name this force whose magnitude is equal to the weight
of the fluid displaced and which causes objects to float.
ANSWER: buoyancy [or the buoyant force] <Silverman>
6. A play by this author ends with a student warning the audience about the inescapability of sin after the
main character reveals that the hyacinth girl is the daughter of the Colonel. Many of this author's chamber
plays were staged in his "Intimate Theater". In another play by this man, the Officer spends years pining
for the actress Victoria and visits Foulstrand and Fairhaven after rescuing Agnes, the daughter of (*) Indra.
The reversal of power between the upper and lower classes is represented by Serena the canary's decapitation in a
work by this author of A Dream Play and The Ghost Sonata. In that play by this man, the Count arrives shortly before
the title character takes a razor from Jean to commit suicide. For 10 points, name this Swedish author of Miss Julie.
ANSWER: August Strindberg [or Johan August Strindberg] <Smart>
7. A piano piece of this type in A minor begins with a four-bar lento fragment of the main theme before
suddenly switching to allegro con brio for the rest of the piece. Claude Debussy's first book of these pieces
is organized by intervals, and the first piece in that book was inspired by Carl Czerny. Franz Liszt wrote
"Paysage" and "Feux Follets" as two of his (*) 12 exceedingly difficult "Transcendental" pieces of this type.
Pieces of this type make up Frederic Chopin's Opus 10 and 25, which include ones nicknamed "Winter Wind" and
"Tristesse," as well as a piece supposedly inspired by Poland's November Uprising, which is often called the
"Revolutionary." For 10 points, name these pieces which focus on improving technique.
ANSWER: etudes [or studies] <Rosenberg>
8. In geomelting, radioactive waste is turned into this type of material. Lyophilization of pharmaceuticals
occurs at a temperature named for this material. At that temperature, polymers supercooled beyond the
"rubber" state transition into a state named for this material. Sensitive pH electrodes are made out of this
material. Primary network formers of this substance, like phosphorous oxide, have a decreased melting
point because of fluxes, like (*) potash. Hydrofluoric acid reacts with this material to give silicon fluorides. Boric
oxide is mixed into this material to prevent thermal expansion. It consists of amorphous silicon oxide. For 10
points, name this material used to make Pyrex beakers and flasks.
ANSWER: glasses [or spin glasses; or glass transition temperature; or glass electrodes] <Silverman>
9. In 1688, an empire in what became this country executed the Greek-born missionary Constantine
Phaulkon. The phrase "mai pen rai," which loosely means "No problem," is used commonly in this
country, where dance dramas known as khon are based largely on foreign epics. This country allied with
Japan and the Axis Powers on the same week as the Pearl Harbor attack. This country, the non-United
Kingdom signatory of the (*) Bowring treaty, is home to biologically-male people who present as women called
kathoey, or "ladyboys." The resort island of Phuket is off this country's portion of the Isthmus of Kra in the
Andaman Sea. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian country led by King Rama IX, which Westerners once
called Siam.
ANSWER: Thailand [or Prathet Thai] <Jackson>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 3 of 13

10. A 2011 play about this character was produced in collaboration between Rokia Traore, Peter Sellars,
and Toni Morrison. According to some historians, performing this role made Margaret Hughes the first
professional actress in England. She mentions a "poor soul" who "sat sighing by the sycamore tree"
while reciting a ditty learned from her mother's maid Barbara, her "willow song". This character is
compared to a "white ewe" in a scene in which (*) Roderigo and another character wake her father Brabantio.
Her handkerchief is picked up by Emilia, after which it is used to frame Michael Cassio in a scheme that results in
this character being suffocated to death. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean character who is murdered after
Iago dupes her husband Othello.
ANSWER: Desdemona <Carson>
11. The founder of this movement was inspired to develop its style by the stained glass windows he made
for the De Lange (LAHN-guh) House. It's not Cubism, but one member of this group created the abstract
painting The Gray Tree after his more realistic The Red Tree. A house in this style has an upper floor
which can be divided in three using sliding panels. That house was designed for the (*) Schröder Family by
Gerrit Rietveld. Another member of this movement limited himself to mostly primary colors in a painting in which
a yellow grid represents the streets of Manhattan. For 10 points, name this Dutch art movement which produced
Broadway Boogie Woogie, and whose members included Theo van Doesburg and Piet Mondrian.
ANSWER: De Stijl [or the Style or Neoplasticism] <Bentley>
12. Calvin Bridges sketched a specific type of these structures that contain diffuse regions called Balbiani
rings and puffs. Many plants and fungi contain extra "B" examples of these structures. In a widely-used
technique, G-banding stains these structures. The two arms of these structures are denoted with the letters
"p" and "q." Salivary glands in Drosophila are home to over-sized, (*) "polytene" examples of these
structures. Miller-Dieker syndrome and cri-du-chat are examples of abnormalities in these structures, called
"aneuploidies." Three of these structures are present in trisomies like Down syndrome, and can be easily visualized
in a karyotype. For 10 points, name these DNA-containing structures that humans have 23 pairs of.
ANSWER: chromosomes [accept specific kinds, like polytene chromosomes and B chromosomes] <Gupta>
13. This leader spent three days in house arrest during an event masterminded by the "Gang of Eight."
More than a hundred civilians were killed on Black January after this leader ordered an invasion of Baku.
This leader encouraged small-scale private ownership with his Law on Cooperatives and urged economic
acceleration with his slogan uskoreniye. Cartoonists often poked fun at the port wine-colored (*) birthmark
on this leader's forehead. A coup against this man was defeated by his successor, who spoke from atop the turret of
a tank. This leader withdrew his country's troops from Afghanistan and pursued the duel policies of "openness" and
"restructuring." For 10 points, name this coiner of the terms glasnost and perestroika, the final leader of the Soviet
Union.
ANSWER: Mikhail Gorbachev [or Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev] <Gupta>
14. Bryan and Cox conducted influential work in modeling these things. A ground-breaking experiment
that studied these things was the TOPEX satellite. Walter Munk's influential circulation model for these
things built on the work of Sverdrup. Transgression and regression are eustatic changes for these
structures. Curtis Ebbesmeyer, who studies these structures, found that a collection of (*) garbage moves in
accordance with their gyres. Fridtjof Nansen discovered that wind stress on these things creates an Ekman spiral.
Density gradients in these things are driven by the thermohaline circulation. The bottom of these things is bounded
by the abyssal plain. For 10 points, name these bodies of water that include the Atlantic and Pacific.
ANSWER: oceans [or seas; do not accept "lakes"] <Jose>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 4 of 13

15. One member of this family uses an analogy where if B picks up A's hat, B should not examine A's face
for gratitude to explain why he does not expect his family to miss him, and requests books by authors like
Guy de Maupassant in "Hapworth 16, 1924". Eloise Wengler regrets marrying her husband Lew rather
than a member of this family named Walt. Lane Coutell dates a member of this family who repeats the (*)
Jesus prayer over and over, and another member goes swimming at a beach with Sybil Carpenter before shooting
himself. This family's members include Franny, Zooey, and Seymour, the last of whom appears in "Raise High the
Roof Beam, Carpenter" and "A Perfect Day for Bananafish". For 10 points, name this literary family created by J.D.
Salinger.
ANSWER: the Glass family <Nutter>
16. Colin Turnbull depicted one culture from this landmass as callous and alienated in The Mountain
People. Richard B. Lee's work on one culture on this landmass led Marshall Sahlins to use them as an
example of "the original affluent society." One culture on this landmass tells the future using termites and
a ritual called benge (BEN-gay). E. E. Evans-Pritchard studied this landmass's (*) Nuer and the Azande
(uh-ZAN-dee) people. This continent is the origin of the L0 (L zero) haplogroup and Mitochondrial Eve. This
continent is home to nearly all click languages. The multiregional origin hypothesis competes with one termed "outof-" this continent, where Lucy the fossil was discovered. For 10 points, name this continent where humans are
thought to have originated that is south of Europe.
ANSWER: Africa <Kothari>
17. Three statues of sacred oxen are located at a site in this empire's Roluos group of monuments. The
people of this empire believed that its king spent every night with a nine-headed snake woman in a golden
tower, according to Zhou Daguan's account of this empire. Raids on this kingdom by the Champas
damaged its irrigation network, which used water tanks called (*) barays. This empire was preceded by the
Funan Kingdom and the Chenla Kingdom. This empire was home to a site featuring many giant statues of smiling
heads, Bayon. Several kings named Jayavarman and Suryavarman ruled this empire, which also built a massive
temple complex designed to look like Mount Meru. For 10 points, name this Cambodian empire which built
Angkor Wat.
ANSWER: Khmer Empire [or Angkor Empire until "Angkor" is read; prompt on Kampuchea or Cambodia]
<Brownstein>
18. One instance of this activity is performed until the first star is seen in the evening sky, and is called the
"Paramony," or "Preparation." Some Pentecostals practice the particularly severe "Black" type. Isaiah
58:6-7 rebukes Israel for not performing the "acceptable" type of this activity by caring for the poor and
oppressed. By preaching that this activity should not be mandatory, (*) Huldrych Zwingli kickstarted the
Reformation in Switzerland. The four main seasons for this activity in Christianity include three named for the
Dormition, the Nativity, the Apostles, and one starting on Ash Wednesday in which people often give up a luxury
in lieu of performing this action. For 10 points, name this activity performed for forty days during Lent by not
eating meat.
ANSWER: fasting [or abstaining from food; or abstinence from food; or not eating; accept not eating meat and
other answers specific to certain foods] <Gupta>
19. This mountain range is home to the exclave of Llivia, which was unintentionally created by a 17thcentury treaty ceding all of Llivia's surroundings. This mountain range was southwest of the historical
border region of Septimania. The motto "Virtus unita fortior" appears on the coat of arms of a sovereign
entity in this range, whose coat of arms shows the miter hat of its co-leader, the (*) Bishop of Urgell, in the
upper-left. Five citadels known as the "Sons of Carcassonne" were built along this mountain range, where pilgrims
to the Rosary Basilica honor the Lady of Lourdes. This range's Roncevaux Pass opens out near Basque country. For
10 points, name this mountain range home to Andorra, on the border between Spain and France.
ANSWER: Pyrenees [or Pirineos] <Wang>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 5 of 13

20. A character in this novel leads a revolution aiming to smash all of his country's clocks in defiance of
the Empress. A character in this novel is forced to eat his own excrement by the immigration officers
Novak and Stein, and after he finally returns home he loses his job on The Aliens and finds his wife
Pamela Lovelace having an affair. Dreams in this novel include one in which Ayesha leads a pilgrimage
into the ocean and one in which (*) Jahilia is conquered by Mahound. Allie Cone is killed by a character in this
novel who develops schizophrenia after surviving a fall from an exploding airplane. Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel
Farishta are the main characters of, for 10 points, which novel, for which Ayatollah Khomeini declared a fatwa on its
author Salman Rushdie?
ANSWER: The Satanic Verses <Yu>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 6 of 13

21. During this campaign, William Scurry invented a self-firing "drip" rifle whose trigger was attached to a
tin can. After the Battle of Scimitar Hill ended this campaign's failed August Offensive, Charles Monro
replaced Ian Hamilton as Allied commander. At its beginning, minefields sank three Allied warships,
prompting landings at Kum Kale and Cape Helles to clear surrounding artillery. It forced (*) Winston
Churchill to resign as First Lord of the Admiralty and inflicted heavy casualties upon New Zealander and Australian
forces, who are remembered on ANZAC Day. The Allied forces in this campaign were repelled by Mustafa Kemal
Ataturk. For 10 points, name this failed amphibious campaign against the Ottoman Empire in World War I.
ANSWER: Gallipoli Campaign [accept anything that mentions Gallipoli; accept Dardanelles Campaign; accept
Battle of Canakkale] <Wang>
22. Along with chlorophyll and three iron-sulfur proteins, a form of this compound serves as an early
electron acceptor in photosystem I, and is known as phylloquinone. In animals, this compound serves as a
cofactor for reactions that gamma-carboxylate glutamate receptors into Gla receptors. The epoxide form
of this vitamin is reduced by an enzyme targeted by the drug (*) Warfarin. This vitamin, which is abundant in
green leafy vegetables, is needed to activate factors II, VII, IX, and X, and along with vitamins A, D, and E, it is fatsoluble. Hematomas and bruising can result from a deficiency of this vitamin, which is symptomatically similar to
hemophilia. For 10 points, name this vitamin important for blood clotting.
ANSWER: Vitamin K [or phylloquinone before mentioned; or menaquinones] <Gupta>
23. In a Johann Wolfgang von Goethe work named for this genre, a ferryman refuses payment in gold and
demands to be paid in vegetables instead. Andrew Lang produced books of twelve different colors which
contained these works, including "Allerleirauh" (all-err-"lie"-rau). In one work of this type, members of
the title group stand on top of each other to observe and foil a group of thieves in a cottage. In German,
these works are called (*) märchen ("mare"-chen). In another work in this genre, the title characters are
abandoned in the forest by their woodcutter father before they encounter an edible house. For 10 points, name this
type of story, examples of which include "The Town Musicians of Bremen" and "Hansel and Gretel", which appear
in a collection by the Brothers Grimm.
ANSWER: fairy tales [or folk tales; accept Märchen before mention; do not accept "fables"] <Jose>
24. The mnemonic "CLORPT" summarizes Hans Jenny's state equation for these materials' formation.
Ammonium acetate extraction is a way to measure the cation exchange capacity of these materials. The
composition of these materials distinguishes edaphic communities. Their USDA classification has 12
orders, of which inceptisols and entisols are the most common. If their effective stress is near zero, these
materials may undergo (*) liquefaction, as when they are saturated. They form from a parent material through the
process of pedogenesis. The profiles of these materials are divided into layers called horizons, and they contain
decayed organic matter called humus as well as sand and silt. For 10 points, name these mixtures of weathered rock
that support plant life.
ANSWER: soils <Kothari>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 7 of 13

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Bonuses
1. A union of people in this profession led by John Lewis staged a controversial wartime strike in 1943. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this profession. Many people of this profession were killed during the Battle of Blair Mountain in 1921.
ANSWER: miners [or mine workers]
[10] John Lewis broke away from this organization by founding the Congress of Industrial Organizations or CIO,
although that union later reunited with this one under George Meany. This union largely superseded the Knights of
Labor.
ANSWER: AFL-CIO [or American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations ]
[10] The AFL was founded by this man, an English immigrant who got his start working in a cigar factory.
ANSWER: Samuel Gompers <Bentley>
2. This man is the mythological progenitor of the Molossian dynasty that ruled Epirus, from which Olympias, the
mother of Alexander the Great, traced her descent. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this cruel warrior, born in Scyros in the court of Lycomedes, who coldly murders Priam and takes
Andromache as a personal concubine.
ANSWER: Neoptolemus [or Pyrrhus]
[10] Neoptolemus is a son of this very powerful Greek hero, who kills Hector and is killed by Paris. This leader of
the Myrmidons begins fighting in earnest after the death of his beloved companion Patroclus.
ANSWER: Achilles [or Achilleus]
[10] In a play by Sophocles, Neoptolemus accompanies Odysseus on a journey to retrieve Philoctetes, whom the
Greeks had abandoned because he had suffered this kind of injury and his wounds smelled bad. Eurydice is killed in
this manner on her wedding night.
ANSWER: snakebite [or being bitten by a snake; or being bitten by a viper] <Jose>
3. One character in this film decides not to kill himself after wandering into a showing of Duck Soup. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this 1986 Woody Allen film focusing on the life a Mia Farrow-played actress and her family. In one
scene, Michael Caine's character declares his love for his sister-in-law through an e.e cummings poem.
ANSWER: Hannah and Her Sisters
[10] Duck Soup itself featured this comedic group of brothers, who also appeared in Animal Crackers and A Night at
the Opera. They included Chico, Harpo and Groucho.
ANSWER: the Marx Brothers
[10] Woody Allen also directed Manhattan, which opens with a montage of New York City landmarks set to this
musical composition. It accompanies an animated depiction of the city in a segment of Fantasia 2000.
ANSWER: Rhapsody in Blue <Weiser>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 8 of 13

4. Centuries before John Maynard Keynes, this organ was believed to be the origin of "animal spirits," which flowed
through the human body to make it move despite being immaterial themselves. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this structure which, like the corpus callosum, sits between the hemispheres of the brain; for that reason,
a 17th-century Frenchman believed that this part of the brain was the "seat of the soul" within the body.
ANSWER: pineal gland
[10] This Frenchman saw the pineal gland as the center of mind-body interaction. In his Discourse on Method, he
established a firm rational foundation for trusting one's senses using the axiom "I think, therefore I am."
ANSWER: Rene Descartes [or Renatus Cartesius]
[10] This number of meditations exist within Descartes's much shorter Meditations on First Philosophy, intended to be
read at the pace of one per day. This is also the number of sections in The Phenomenology of Spirit, apart from the
Preface and Introduction.
ANSWER: six <Jackson>
5. Early in the poem, this character beats his breast "for he heard the loud bassoon" indicating that a certain
ceremony was about to start, but that is ignored by his interlocutor, a man he calls a "gray-beard loon". For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this character who is told a story that leaves him "a sadder and a wiser man" when "he rose the
morrow morn".
ANSWER: the Wedding-Guest [prompt on guest]
[10] The Wedding Guest listens to the story told by this title character of a Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem. This
character shoots an albatross with his crossbow and is then forced by his fellow sailors to wear the bird around his
neck.
ANSWER: the Ancient Mariner [prompt on "mariner"]
[10] This three-word line from "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" both precedes and follows the line "And all the
boards did shrink" in the second part of the poem.
ANSWER: "Water, water, everywhere" <Bentley>
6. Steven Pinker argues that this phenomenon has decreased over time in his book The Better Angels of Our Nature.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this negative social phenomenon at the focus of the Brown v. EMA media lawsuit. Pinker claims this
destructive phenomenon is motivated by what he calls the Five Inner Demons.
ANSWER: violence [or word forms; prompt on "aggression"]
[10] Pinker was influenced by Norbert Elias' book on the development of this construct of complex society. Freud
argued that instinctual freedom is repressed and sublimated by people living within these social constructs in a book
titled after them and the dissatisfaction they generate.
ANSWER: civilization [or civilizing; or civil society; prompt on "society"]
[10] Pinker's book likens many social problems to this puzzle from game theory, in which each of two captives must
choose to cooperate or to defect to the authorities without knowing the other captive's choice.
ANSWER: prisoner's dilemma <Smart>
7. This author expanded his one-act play People in the Wind into a play that ends with Bo Decker and Cherie heading
to Montana, after which Grace turns out the lights in her restaurant. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American playwright of Bus Stop and The Dark at the Top of the Stairs, who won a Pulitzer for his play
Picnic.
ANSWER: William Inge [or William Motter Inge]
[10] In Bus Stop, Cherie claims to be on her way to this city in order to film a screen test. David Mamet's play Speedthe-Plow and F. Scott Fitzgerald's final novel The Last Tycoon both depict players in this city's film industry.
ANSWER: Los Angeles [or L.A.; or Hollywood]
[10] Doc passes out drunk before he can hit his wife Lola with a hatchet in a scene from this other William Inge
play, whose title refers to a dog owned by the couple which has gone missing.
ANSWER: Come Back, Little Sheba <Bentley>
PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 9 of 13

8. This statement can be used to prove Fick's Second Law, given Fick's First Law and no reaction. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this principle demonstrated by Lavoisier when he burned a piece of wood and showed that the total
weight remained constant. It's the basis of stoichiometry.
ANSWER: law of conservation of mass [or a mass balance]
[10] In stoichiometry, the limiting reactant is the one where the concentration, divided by this parameter, is the
smallest. The stoichiometric ratio is the ratio of two of these values.
ANSWER: stoichiometric coefficients
[10] For any species, the stoichiometric coefficient is guaranteed to be the same as this quantity if the reaction is
elementary. This quantity is empirically determined using the method of initial rates.
ANSWER: reaction order with respect to each species <Silverman>
9. A massive stupa mound was built over the remains of this city, whose artifacts include a seal depicting a horned
god and the four-inch-tall Dancing Girl sculpture. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this city home to a water tank known as the Great Bath, which was located in what is now the Sindh
province in the 3rd millennium BC. The name ascribed to it by archaeologists means "mound of the dead."
ANSWER: Mohenjo-Daro
[10] Along with the Harappa site in Punjab, Mohenjo-Daro was a part of a mysterious early civilization that
flourished in this river's valley. It runs through the Ladakh plateau in what's now Pakistan.
ANSWER: Indus River [or Indus Valley Civilization]
[10] This other site, the southernmost major uncovered city of the Indus valley civilization, is noteworthy as one of
the first uncovered ports of the ancient world, from which it became a center of trade for the bead industry.
ANSWER: Lothal <Kandlikar>
10. Psittacosis and hantavirus are characterized as this type of infectious disease, the opposite of anthroponotic
diseases. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this class of diseases in which a pathogen infecting an animal reservoir can be transmitted to humans,
with or without vectors, but is not dependent on humans to complete its life cycle.
ANSWER: zoonotic disease [or zoonosis; or zoonoses]
[10] People living in close proximity to animals are often exposed to neglected zoonoses described with this term.
This adjective denotes diseases that are naturally maintained at a steady state within a population, unlike epidemics.
ANSWER: endemic
[10] This zoonotic disease is endemic among rodents in the rural southwest, although human infection with its
Yersinia pestis pathogen is very rare in the US. Lymph nodes swell in its bubonic form.
ANSWER: plague [or bubonic plague; or pneumonic plague] <Smart>
11. In Eastern Orthodox traditions, a September 8 celebration called the "Nativity of [this term]" marks the first of
the Twelve Great Feasts. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Greek title that literally translates to "God-bearer" and explicitly refers to the Incarnation as opposed
to Mary as "Mother of God".
ANSWER: Theotokos
[10] The title Christotokos was rejected in a decree by this AD 431 council convened by Theodosius II. This council
confirmed the original Nicene Creed and denounced Nestorianism.
ANSWER: Council of Ephesus [prompt on third ecumenical council]
[10] The Theotokos further complicates this already-complicated idea, that the three expressions of God are the
Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
ANSWER: Trinity <Smart>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 10 of 13

12. This monarch uses a sword called Joyeuse. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this white-bearded monarch. In his primary literary appearance, his armies face off against King Baligant
of Babylon after a pitched battle against the armies of the pagan king Marsile.
ANSWER: Charlemagne [or Charles I of France; or Charles the Great]
[10] This nephew and paladin of Charlemagne dies heroically at Roncesvalles in an Old French chanson de geste named
for him. Later Italian tales about him changed his name to Orlando.
ANSWER: Roland
[10] Roland dies when he finally agrees to take this cautionary measure; he performs this act with such intensity that
his brains burst out of his head.
ANSWER: blowing the Oliphaunt horn to call for reinforcements [or blowing the Oliphaunt; accept answers that
involve using a horn; prompt on answers such as "calling for help"] <Jackson>
13. The normalization of a Slater determinant equals one over the square root of this function of the number of
electrons. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this function. To avert the Gibbs paradox, this function of the number of indistinguishable gas particles
must be included in the partition function as a normalization factor.
ANSWER: factorial
[10] The factorial term is necessary because the number of these things decreases if the particles are
indistinguishable. Boltzmann's formula for entropy takes the natural log of the number of these things.
ANSWER: microstates
[10] Defects in these objects also have factorial-dependent entropy. The entropy of these perfectly-ordered, periodic
systems is zero at absolute zero.
ANSWER: crystals [or lattices; or word forms] <Silverman>
14. This composer's third symphony uses the recurring cryptogram 'F-A-F' for "Frei aber Froh," or "Free but
happy." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer of the Academic Festival Overture, whose first symphony is sometimes called "Beethoven's
Tenth."
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms
[10] Brahms's longest piece is this sacred work which, unlike most others in its genre, uses text from the Lutheran
bible rather than Roman Catholic liturgy.
ANSWER: A German Requiem [or Ein deutsches Requiem]
[10] Brahms was especially fond of this rhythmic device, in which a two-beat pattern is juxtaposed against a threebeat meter or vice versa.
ANSWER: hemiola <Rosenberg>
15. This nation poured a huge amount of national resources into athletics, and as such its athletes took home 20
gold medals at the 1972 Summer Olympics. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Communist nation ruled by men such as Walter Ulbricht. A border separating this nation from its
capital neighbor contained Checkpoint Charlie.
ANSWER: East Germany [or German Democratic Republic or GDR; do not accept or prompt on "Germany"]
[10] This was the name for East Germany's secret police. Officially called the Ministry for State Security, this
organization allowed Libyan agents free passage in East Berlin to carry out the 1986 discotheque bombings.
ANSWER: Stasi [or Ministry for State Security; or Staatssicherheit]
[10] This vehicle produced by VEB Sachsenring could seat four passengers but was notorious for its polluting
exhaust and awful performance on the road. As with the similar Wartburg car, production of this vehicle ceased
following reunification.
ANSWER: Trabant <Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 11 of 13

16. This author wrote about traveling with his companion Kawai Sora in his book The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Japanese poet whose collections Record of a Travel-Worn Satchel and Monkey's Raincoat contain
numerous haiku.
ANSWER: Matsuo Basho [or Matsuo Basho; or Matsuo Chuemon Munefusa]
[10] One of Basho's most famous haikut describes the sound that one of these animals makes when it jumps into a
pond.
ANSWER: frog [or toads; or kawazu]
[10] Another Japanese poet, Ueda Akinari, wrote the Ugetsu Monogatari, a collection of nine works in this genre. A
Warning to the Curious is among the compendia of stories in this genre by M. R. James, who wrote a number of them
from the perspective of an antiquary.
ANSWER: ghost stories [or horror stories; or supernatural stories; or kaidanshu; or kwaidanshu; accept
synonyms for "stories" like "tales"] <Jose>
17. Answer the following about the Renaissance predilection for painting yourself in non self-portraits, for 10
points each.
[10] This artist painted himself as St. Bartholomew holding his flayed skin, watching Jesus mete out the fates of
sinners and do-gooders in his massive painting The Last Judgment.
ANSWER: Michelangelo [or Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni]
[10] This man may have painted himself as a dwarf in the fresco cycles he executed for the Peruzzi and Bardi
chapels in Santa Croce (KROE-chay). Judas kisses Jesus in a painting from a cycle this artist painted at Padua.
ANSWER: Giotto [or Giotto di Bondone]
[10] This quattrocento artist may have painted himself as a sleeping soldier in his Resurrection, in which Christ rises
from a sarcophagus holding a flag. He also painted The Flagellation.
ANSWER: Piero della Francesca [or Piero della Francesca] <Gupta>
18. The Clay Mathematics Institute awards one million dollars for the correct solution to any of these problems. For
10 points each:
[10] Name this set of seven problems that includes the Hodge Conjecture. The Poincare conjecture is the only one
of these problems to have been solved.
ANSWER: Millennium prize problems
[10] One of the Millennium Prize Problems is to prove or disprove that the nontrivial zeroes of this function have a
real part of one-half. Over ten trillion zeroes of this function have been verified to have that property, but the
problem remains unsolved.
ANSWER: Riemann zeta function [prompt on Riemann hypothesis]
[10] Evaluating the Riemann zeta function at this value yields Apéry's constant. Almost all numbers can be written
as a sum of at most this many squares.
ANSWER: three <Karas>
19. Answer the following about the profession of the scribe, for 10 points each.
[10] Assyrian or Babylonian scribes probably also produced works in the namesake language of this empire which
was commonly spoken throughout Mesopotamia. The founder of this empire, Sargon the Great, won the Battle of
Uruk.
ANSWER: Akkadian Empire
[10] Roman scribes, who could employ rustic or uncial script, often belonged to this class of people made up of
former slaves. In the US, a bureau for this sort of person was set up during Reconstruction.
ANSWER: freedmen [or liberti]
[10] Jean Mielot was a translator and scribe in the court of this Duke of Burgundy and father of Charles the Bold,
who held the Feast of the Pheasant in an attempt to raise support for a Crusade.
ANSWER: Philip the Good [or Philip III; or Philippe le Bon; prompt on Philip] <Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 12 of 13

20. In 2014, the US Supreme Court refused to hear a case appealing a New York court's ruling against this country
on debt owed to NML Capital and other creditors. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Latin American country that was almost brought to default in 2014 by hedge fund manager Paul
Singer. It has defaulted eight times, most recently under its current president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner.
ANSWER: Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]
[10] NML Capital is technically based in this British Caribbean archipelago, which has been used as tax haven by
Bain Capital and many other businesses.
ANSWER: Cayman Islands
[10] In 2012, NML Capital had an Argentine warship detained off the coast of this country, which is led by John
Mahama. Long power outages called dumsor have afflicted it in 2015 due to low water levels behind the Akosombo
Dam.
ANSWER: Republic of Ghana <Bentley>
21. During this campaign, a heckler asked, "Why don't you hang Jefferson Davis?" to which the president
scandalously replied, "Why don't you hang Thad Stevens and Wendell Phillips?" For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 1866 campaign to drum up support for moderate candidates in the midterm elections. It didn't
work out for the president.
ANSWER: the Swing around the Circle campaign
[10] The Swing around the Circle campaign was undertaken by this unpopular president, who was impeached but
not convicted by Congress for violating the Tenure of Office Act.
ANSWER: Andrew Johnson [prompt on Johnson]
[10] Johnson tried to fire this Secretary of War who engineered the elaborate funeral procession of Lincoln's body
from Washington, D.C. to his resting place in Illinois.
ANSWER: Edwin McMasters Stanton <Bentley>
22. The pompous main character of this story is shaken when she is told "Go back to hell where you came from,
you old wart hog", which later causes her to shout "Who do you think you are?" at God while cleaning out her own
hog sty. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this short story in which a college student named Mary Grace hurls her Human Development textbook at
Ruby Turpin's face.
ANSWER: "Revelation"
[10] This Southern Gothic writer of "Revelation" also wrote "Everything That Rises Must Converge" and "A Good
Man is Hard to Find". Her protagonists generally experience a moment of divine grace.
ANSWER: Flannery O'Connor [or Mary Flannery O'Connor]
[10] In this O'Connor story, Tom T. Shiftlet scams Mrs. Crater out of her car by agreeing to marry her daughter
Lucynell, then abandoning the latter at a diner. Its title appears on a series billboards urging the viewer to "drive
carefully".
ANSWER: "The Life You Save May Be Your Own" <Gerr>
23. Identify the following about some properties of algorithms, for 10 points each.
[10] Problems in this computational complexity class can be solved by an efficient algorithm. A difficult unsolved
problem in computational complexity theory is whether this class is equal, or not equal, to NP.
ANSWER: P [or PTIME; or polynomial time]
[10] An in-place algorithms does not perform more than a constant amount of this type of operation, which can be
performed in C using malloc (M AHL-ock). A specific type of this operation can be performed in Java using the
"new" keyword.
ANSWER: memory allocation [or allocating new memory; prompt on creating an object; prompt on obvious
equivalents]
[10] This adjective describes algorithms that do not change the relative order of the input set. For instance, a card
sorting algorithm with this property would preserve the order of suits between cards of the same face value.
ANSWER: stable [or stability] <Bentley>
PACE NSC 2015 - Round 05 - Page 13 of 13

