2015 NSC - Official Scoresheet
Round

02

Room

Bracket
Reader

Team

Team

Player
Names

Q#

Bonus

Steals

Ques.
Total

Run.
Score

Bonus

Steals

Ques.
Total

Run.
score

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
TB1
TB2
TB3
SD
Player
20s
Player
10s
Point
totals

Final
score
Out:
Out:

Substitutions before Tossup 11
In:
In:

Out:
Out:

Substitutions before Tossup 11
In:
In:

Circle winning team above. Clearly mark if game goes to OT/SD. Fill out “Point totals” row completely.
If there are substitutions, please note tossups by each player in “20s” and “10s” rows. Below is for Tab Room use only:

RH

RS

BH

BS

Left

Right

BH

BS

RH

RS

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 1 of 13

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Tossups
1. Ottoman Sultan Abdulmedjid I was forced to scale down his response to this event. The Ballinlass
incident was a notorious eviction during this event, in which Count Paul de Strzelecki was tasked with
dispersing over four hundred thousand pounds. Attempts to aid the victims of this event were often
stymied by the "Gregory clause" of the Poor Law. It's not the Highland Clearances, but people boarded
squalid (*) "coffin ships" to escape this event, which was exacerbated by extreme subdivision of land. Robert Peel
responded to this event by repealing the Corn Laws. The fungus Phytophthora infestans caused this event. For 10
points, name this period from 1845-52, in which a million people starved to death due to a blight in a staple crop.
ANSWER: Irish potato famine [or Great Hunger; or Great Famine; or Irish famine; or An Gorta Mor]
<Bentley>
2. A solo piece for this instrument ends with a movement that quotes folk songs such as "I have been
away from you for so long" and "Cabbages and turnips have driven me away." A two-manual variety of
this instrument plays the Italian Concerto. A solo piece for this instrument ends with a quodlibet (QUADlee-butt) and includes nine canons, one every three movements. This instrument plays a lengthy cadenza in the first
movement of the fifth (*) Brandenburg Concerto. A solo piece for this instrument consists of thirty variations on a G
major aria theme. This instrument cannot create dynamics because it plucks the strings rather than hammering them
like the piano. For 10 points, the Goldberg Variations were written for what Baroque keyboard instrument?
ANSWER: harpsichords [or cembalo; or cembali] <Kim>
3. One of this author's protagonists uses a drug developed by Magnus Lane to experience the 14th-century
unrequited affair between Isolda Carminowe and his doppelganger Roger. In a story by this author of The
House on the Strand, Mr. and Mrs. Trigg are among the victims of a series of attacks that Nat Hocken
realizes occur only at high tide. In one of this author's novels, the protagonist inadvertently attends a ball
wearing a replica of a (*) dress belonging to the deceased title character due to the machinations of Mrs. Danvers.
The unnamed narrator is the second wife of Maxim de Winter in that novel by this author, which opens "Last night
I dreamt I went to Manderley again." For 10 points, name this Cornish woman who wrote "The Birds" and Rebecca.
ANSWER: Daphne du Maurier [or Dame Daphne du Maurier, Lady Browning] <Carson>
4. Sympathetic postganglionic cholinergic neurons unusually innervate the structures responsible for this
sudomotor process. Ceruminous glands and eyelid ciliary glands are modified forms of structures
responsible for this process. This process is used to detect dysfunctional CFTR channels in a namesake
test for (*) cystic fibrosis. After puberty, this process can be performed by axillary apocrine glands, where bacteria
metabolize its products and produce odor. People suffering from heat stroke cannot perform this process. Dogs
pant because they can only perform this thermoregulatory function in their paws. For 10 points, name this process
in which evaporative cooling is achieved with salty fluids secreted from the skin.
ANSWER: sweating [or perspiration; or diaphoresis; prompt on thermoregulation; prompt on temperature
regulation; prompt on cooling] <Smart>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 2 of 13

5. A religious leader in this city was accused of eating lozenges in church at the Synod of the Oak. A
religious conflict began with the excommunication of Michael I Cerularius, the head of a church in this
city. The second-ever ecumenical council was held in this city, and confirmed the Nicene creed. The
Divine Liturgy of a church based in this city was penned by St. John Chrysostom. Anthemius of Tralles
and Isidore of Miletus constructed a church in this city with a (*) gigantic dome supported on pendentives,
which was dedicated to "Holy Wisdom." The Ecumenical Patriarch is the head of a church based in this city that
feuded with a church based in Rome during the Great Schism. For 10 points, name this city, home to the Hagia
Sophia, the seat of Eastern Orthodoxy.
ANSWER: Constantinople [accept Istanbul only after "Ecumenical Patriarch" is read, do not accept or prompt
on it before] <Gupta>
6. Frameworks for assisting in this practice include Selenium and Lime. Thoroughly performing this
action tends to result in high block coverage. Forms of this practice include the integration and regression
types. The term dogfooding is used to describe internal forms of this practice. This process can be
performed using tools such as xUnit. Tools that simulate a high number of concurrent connections are
useful in performing the (*) "load" or "stress" type of this practice. Alternative layouts might be shown to
different groups of users in a website practicing the A/B form of this technique. The public is often asked to
participate in the "beta" form of this process. For 10 points, name this practice that tries to root out bugs in
programs.
ANSWER: software testing [or unit testing; or integration testing; or load testing; or stress testing; or A/B
testing; or beta testing; prompt on software validation] <Bentley>
7. The Byzantine empire gave Geza Arpad one of these objects which is now named for Saint Stephen of
Hungary. These objects name a type of phase-transfer catalyst that segregates cations inside a ring of
ether monomers. During the Social War, Lucius Cornelius Sulla received a "grass" one of these objects,
the highest (*) decoration of the Roman army. In 18th through mid-20th century Britain, these objects named a
type of large silver coin worth five shillings. A white and red one symbolizing the unity of Upper and Lower Egypt
was often shown in pharaohs' inscriptions. Before the Crucifixion, Jesus received one made of thorns. For 10
points, name these items which are usually heavier than a diadem or tiara, a type of royal headgear.
ANSWER: crowns [or Holy Crown of Saint Stephen; or crown ethers; or Grass Crown; or Double Crown; or
crown of thorns] <Jackson>
8. In 1965, a group of French scholars dedicated to Reading this book was led by Louis Althusser, who
later analyzed the hailing of citizens by cops as "interpellation." The "transformation problem" was first
put forth in the last overarching segment of this text, whose title concept becomes prominent due to
"primitive accumulation" and is said to be "vampire-like." The fourth chapter of this book asks whether
"C-M-C" or "M-C-M" is the proper formula for (*) circulation. This book, whose fourth volume was compiled
posthumously, distinguishes "use value" from "exchange value," and warns that viewing products apart from the
laborers exploited to make them leads to commodity fetishism. For 10 points, name this treatise about the
economy, by Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx.
ANSWER: Das Kapital [or Capital] <Jackson>
9. This city's Jewish Ghisolfi family helped found the Bank of St. George, which was granted control over
colonies in Gazaria and the Taman Peninsula. Constantinople's Galata Tower was built by traders from
this city, whose colony of Caffa may have been an entry point for the bubonic plague into Europe. An
admiral from this city led the allied fleet that lost to the Ottomans at the Battle of Preveza. (*)
Crossbowmen from this city, which was once led by Andrea Doria, were outshot by English longbowmen at the
Battle of Crecy. An explorer born in this city appealed to Ferdinand and Isabella for financial support for his four
voyages to the New World. For 10 points, name this Italian city, the birthplace of Christopher Columbus, a major
maritime rival of Venice.
ANSWER: Genoa [or Republic of Genoa] <Wang>
PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 3 of 13

10. After the protagonist of this novel comes home from work, he argues with his mother over whether he
returned before or after two in the morning. In this novel, a lawyer gives a man a wooden cross necklace,
only for it to be thrown away when that man sees the Ku Klux Klan. A couple eats fried chicken at
Charlie's Kitchen Shack to experience (*) black life in this novel, in which the protagonist forges a ransom note
with the signature "Reds." Boris A. Max defends this novel's protagonist, who kills a rat with a skillet in its opening
scene. This novel's protagonist kills Jan Erlone's girlfriend Mary Dalton by suffocating her with a pillow. For 10
points, name this novel about Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright.
ANSWER: Native Son <Sy>
11. A mother of ten named Etta Mae Miller was sentenced to life in prison for violating this legislation.
Violations of this law were changed from misdemeanors to felonies by the Jones Law. This legislation's
namesake, a Minnesota Congressman, also co-sponsored a bill that made farm combines exempt from
anti-trust laws with Arthur Capper. The "padlock" provisions of this law were used to temporarily (*)
close businesses like the Paradise in New York. 13 years after it was passed over Woodrow Wilson's veto, the Blaine
Act made it unconstitutional. This legislation's restriction of 0.5% as the legal limit for certain substances were
ignored by operators of blind pigs and speakeasies. For 10 points, name this legislation which enforced the 18th
Amendment.
ANSWER: Volstead Act [or National Prohibition Act; do not accept "18th Amendment"] <Bentley>
12. A short story character spends the night with some of these people and later dies "with no hopeful
verse upon his tombstone." In a novel about this kind of people, three of them conspire to give Jenny
cancer in revenge for her marriage to Darryl Van Horne, who has affairs with Alexandra, Jane, and Sukie,
residents of a small Rhode Island town. Reverend Hale exclaims "I denounce these proceedings!" in a (*)
court case about this kind of people. John Updike wrote a novel about several of these people in Eastwick, and
Nathaniel Hawthorne's "Young Goodman Brown" is about one of their meetings. Martha Corey and John Proctor
are executed on suspicion of being these people at the end of Arthur Miller's The Crucible. For 10 points, name these
people who hang out in covens.
ANSWER: witches <Mehigan>
13. A cat stares at a caged bird in this artist's group portrait of the Graham Children. Faces taken from
Raphael and Leonardo are contrasted with contemporary profiles in this artist's Characters and
Caricaturas. A child falls from the breast of a woman seated on a flight of stairs in an allegorical etching by
this artist warning against foreign spirits. This man's dog stands next to a tondo self-portrait in The (*)
Painter and his Pug. The title figure of one of his works ends up naked and shackled to the floor of Bedlam,
indifferent to the care of Sarah Young. This artist of Gin Lane created eight paintings of the downfall of Tom
Rakewell. For 10 points, name this English artist of the satirical series, A Rake's Progress.
ANSWER: William Hogarth <Bentley>
14. A potential derived from this law predicts energy quantized by half-integer multiples of Planck's
constant times frequency. This equation predicts the energy required for an IR-active mode, given the
reduced mass of a molecule. In the most common test on an Instron device, this law fails to predict
behavior like work hardening or necking as the load increases. This equation models chemical bond
vibrations with a quadratic potential energy dependence. A straight line on a (*) stress-strain curve is a
consequence of this equation. It uses a proportionality constant which has units of Newtons divided by meters. This
law predicts a restoring force that is negative and proportional to the distance extended from equilibrium. For 10
points, name this law which applies to springs.
ANSWER: Hooke's Law <Silverman>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 4 of 13

15. The Kelvin equation gives solubility as a function of this property. Dynamic light scattering is used to
measure this quantity, which continuously increases due to Ostwald ripening. The mean free path is
proportional to the negative second power of this quantity. This property of a polymer is determined using
chromatography where a gel is the stationary phase. The cross section in (*) collision theory is roughly the
sum of this quantity for the molecules. The difference between a colloid and a suspension is this property for the
particles. The b term in the van der Waals equation accounts for this property, countering the ideal gas law's
assumption that this property for gas molecules is zero. For 10 points, name this quantity which is small for
particles that pass through a filter.
ANSWER: particle size [or volume; or surface area; or radius; or diameter; or chain length; do not accept or
prompt on "mass" or "weight" or "molar mass"] <Silverman>
16. Meredith Monk's dance Juice was first performed at this museum, which is where one can find Al
Held's Untitled Y and The Yellow Cow by Franz Marc. This museum was originally called The Museum
of Non-Objective Painting under the guidance of director Hilla von Rebay. Its architect intended for
visitors to ride to the top of the museum and descend down a single incline while viewing its artworks.
This museum, designed as a "Temple of the Spirit", resembles both an inverted (*) ziggurat and a ribbon
on a cylindrical stack that has been made with curved surfaces. A sister museum to this one is located next to Jeff
Koons' statue Puppy; that museum was designed by Frank Gehry and is in Bilbao. For 10 points, name this museum
designed by Frank Lloyd Wright in New York City.
ANSWER: Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum [or Guggenheim New York; do not accept "Guggenheim
Bilbao"] <Jose>
17. Late in this proceeding, a remark was made that a racecar without a driver can't drive itself. The claim
that a decade is "the blink of an eye in the life of a nation" was made at this proceeding, which also
warned that in present circumstances, "the enemy of your enemy is your enemy." Its deliverer used the
image of "three tentacles of (*) terror" threatening his society. A day after a similar AIPAC address, this speech
gave thanks to its audience for aiding the Iron Dome program. Snippets of it were used for ads in the run-up to a
March 17th election which this address's speaker won narrowly over Isaac Herzog. For 10 points, what 2015 speech
opposing a nuclear deal with Iran was given at the request of House and Senate Republicans by the Prime Minister
of Israel?
ANSWER: Benjamin Netanyahu's 2015 speech to a joint session of Congress [or Benjamin Netanyahu's third
speech to a joint session of the US Congress; or Bibi Netanyahu's March 3rd, 2015 Congressional Speech; accept
any answer indicating both Netanyahu and a speech given to Congress] <Bentley>
18. This character learns how to read from Elective Affinities and a book about Rasputin. This character
loves to spit onto his lover's orange fizz powder. He remembers his "presumptive" father holding up a
queen of hearts after being arrested in the middle of a game of skat. This character deliberately falls down
a trapdoor as a "sacrifice", then joins Bebra's troupe of circus freaks. Bruno (*) Munsterberg makes knot
sculptures based on tales told by this character, who finds a murdered nun's severed finger and as a result is locked
up in an asylum. This character, who eventually becomes a popular jazz musician at the Onion Cellar, can shatter
glass with his voice and decides to stop growing after the age of 3. For 10 points, name this protagonist of The Tin
Drum.
ANSWER: Oskar Matzerath [accept either underlined portion] <Silverman>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 5 of 13

19. This man hid from his creditors by stowing away on a ship in a barrel with his dog. This man
undertook his most famous feat after the son of the cacique Comagre promised to show this man a place
where people ate on plates of gold. This man, who named the Pearl Islands, was beheaded after great
difficulty on trumped-up charges invented by his rival Pedrarias after being personally arrested by
Francisco (*) Pizarro. This man established Santa Maria de la Antigua at Darien, the first stable settlement in the
Americas. Reinforced by a thousand men supplied by his friend Careta, this man waded through dense forest to
cross the Isthmus of Panama. For 10 points, name this conquistador, who in 1513 became the first European to see
the Pacific.
ANSWER: Vasco Nunez (noon-YEZ) de Balboa <Gupta>
20. The footnote "demon speaking from here on" appears in this text after a narrative about how a
hailstorm immediately extinguishes divinely-granted fire. One character in this text dies after eating a bird
poisoned with white earth. Its protagonists trick their half-brothers into climbing an endlessly-growing
tree. In this text, animals, mud, and wood are used in three failed attempts at (*) creating mankind. In this
text, two characters survive the Houses of Gloom and Knives, but one of them is decapitated in the House of Bats
by Camazotz. Vucub-Caquix, Cabrakan, and Zipacna are defeated in this text, whose protagonists are called to
Xibalba for playing a ball-game too loudly. For 10 points, name this compilation of stories about the Hero Twins,
and other Mayan myths.
ANSWER: Popol Vuh [or Popol Wuj] <Gupta>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 6 of 13

21. Portraits by an artist from this modern-day country include one of a bearded woman breastfeeding and
one of a grinning clubfooted boy. An artist from here painted a dead St. Serapion hanging by his arms. A
style of still-life set in the kitchen called bodegón evolved in this country. Yet another artist from this
country showed Nicolas Pertusato poking a dog with his leg. That artist from this country showed (*)
Justinus van Nassau handing over keys in his Surrender of Breda, and another of that artist's paintings includes a selfportrait of the artist at his easel, two dwarfs, and several maids of honor. For 10 points, name this home of Jose de
Ribera, Francisco de Zurbaran, and the artist of Las Meninas, Diego Velazquez.
ANSWER: Spain [or España] <Brownstein>
22. In some cases, performing this operation on a B-Tree requires elements to be partitioned according to
a median and then split. In a Red-Black Tree, this operation is followed by at most two additional tree
rotations. Geometric expansion is used to ensure that this operation has an amortized constant time in
Java's ArrayList. A sorting algorithm named for this operation considers the element at position i in the
loop and then sequentially swaps that element with any (*) already sorted entries in the array that it is less
than. After performing this operation with a node X in a linked list, the head may now point to X. This operation is
equivalent to a push in Java's Stack implementation. For 10 points, name this operation of adding an item to a data
structure.
ANSWER: insertion [or inserting at the end of a list; or adding an item to a data structure or push until
mentioned; do not accept things like "creating a new object"] <Bentley>
23. Francois-Charles de Bourlamaque unsuccessfully tried to blow up this location while commanding it.
After an uncontested surrender of this location, Philip Schuyler and Arthur St. Clair were court-martialed.
Legendarily, a man shouted "come out you old rat!" to Captain William Delaplace at this location,
followed by a demand to surrender "in the name of the Great Jehovah and the (*) Continental Congress."
After a military engagement at this location, Seth Warner led a raid on Crown Point. Henry Knox transported
cannons from this location in winter to help relieve the siege of Boston. For 10 points, name this fort at Lake
Champlain, New York, that was seized by Ethan Allen's Green Mountain Boys in 1776.
ANSWER: Fort Ticonderoga [or Fort Carillon] <Cheyne>
24. The protagonist of this story falls in love with a hunchbacked girl from a family of locksmiths in a 2013
Haruki Murakami story. Before the events of this story, the protagonist had framed a magazine photo of a
woman bedecked in fur in his "rather too small" room. This story ends with a family taking a trolley ride
to the countryside after firing their cleaning lady. Its main character dies after being (*) spotted by three
visitors listening to his sister play the violin. This story opens with the protagonist waking from "uneasy dreams".
In this story, the protagonist's mother is horrified to see him climbing the walls after most of his furniture is
removed by Grete. For 10 points, name this Franz Kafka short story in which Gregor Samsa turns into a vermin.
ANSWER: "The Metamorphosis" [or "Die Verwandlung"; "or "The Transformation"; accept "Samsa in Love"
before the end of the first sentence] <Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 7 of 13

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Bonuses
1. At small angles of displacement, pendulums closely approximate this type of system. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of physical system, exemplified by a mass on a spring, in which the restoring force is directly
proportional to displacement.
ANSWER: simple harmonic oscillator [or HO; or SHO]
[10] The effect of this force on an oscillator's magnitude is determined by the discriminant of the characteristic
equation for the system. An oscillator approaches zero amplitude fastest when the coefficient of this force is equal
to the oscillator's resonant frequency.
ANSWER: damping force [or word forms, such as damped]
[10] Pencil and paper ready. An oscillator is described by the second-order differential equation m times d-squared-x
over d-t-squared, plus c times d-x over d-t, plus k times x, equals 0. What is the discriminant of the characteristic
equation for this oscillator?
ANSWER: c squared minus 4 times m times k [or mathematical equivalents; do not prompt on partial answers]
<Neithalath>
2. Pierre Boulez and Luigi Nono advocated the "total" form of this method, in which it is extended not just to pitch
but to rhythm, dynamics, and so on. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this technique which began with twelve-tone composition, in which the elements of the music are
determined using a pre-established set.
ANSWER: serialism [or serial composition]
[10] This Austrian composer developed twelve-tone serialism after his earlier experiments with "free" atonality in
Pierrot Lunaire.
ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg
[10] This student of Schoenberg and colleague of Anton Webern blended twelve-tone composition with romantic
lyricism in his violin concerto and his opera Lulu.
ANSWER: Alban Berg <Rosenberg>
3. Identify the following British essayists, for 10 points each.
[10] This man published two major series of essays under the titles The Rambler and The Idler. He spent nine years
creating an early Dictionary of the English Language and was the subject of a landmark biography by James Boswell.
ANSWER: Samuel Johnson
[10] This author of "The English Mail-Coach" wrote a collection of prose-poetic essays called Suspiria de Profundis.
He wrote about his own laudanum addiction in his most famous work, Confessions of an English Opium-Eater.
ANSWER: Thomas De Quincey [or Thomas Penson De Quincey]
[10] This contemporary of William Hazlitt collaborated with his sister Mary on the children's book Tales from
Shakespeare. "Dream-Children", "Old China", and "A Dissertation Upon Roast Pig" are among his pieces published
under the title Essays of Elia.
ANSWER: Charles Lamb <Carson>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 8 of 13

4. For 10 points each, answer the following about proof techniques.
[10] This common proof technique involves assuming that a statement is true, and then showing that it would lead
to a known falsehood, meaning the original statement cannot be true.
ANSWER: proof by contradiction
[10] This mathematician used a proof by contradiction to demonstrate the infinitude of the primes. He also wrote
The Elements.
ANSWER: Euclid
[10] Abbreviated w.l.o.g., this four-word phrase is sometimes invoked to show that certain assumptions can be
made without invalidating the proof.
ANSWER: without loss of generality <Jose>
5. Name some things about oppressive redistricting methods, for 10 points each.
[10] This term for adjusting district boundaries to establish a particular group's political advantage was first coined
in the Boston Gazette in reaction to redistricting laws enacted under a namesake Massachusetts governor.
ANSWER: gerrymandering
[10] This racist tactic shuffles low-income, low-education minorities into the same district as high-income, higheducation whites to give an illusion of diversity. This technique is contrasted with packing and cracking.
ANSWER: stacking
[10] Gerrymandering is most effective in political systems that use this type of voting in which the individual with
the most votes wins. This form of plurality voting often leads to a two party system.
ANSWER: first past the post [or winner take all]
6. Answer the following about Shacharit, the morning prayer in Judaism, for 10 points each.
[10] Before the actual prayer service, these small black leather boxes inscribed with Torah verses or containing
Torah scrolls are attached to the upper arm and forehead.
ANSWER: tefillin [or phylactery; or phylacteries]
[10] The morning blessings conclude with the utterance of the "Rabbi's" form of this hymn to God, which is often
confused with the specific "mourner's" type said at funerals and memorials.
ANSWER: Kaddish
[10] The next part of the service consists of the "verses of praise," which are taken from this Old Testament book
consisting of 150 songs and hymns. The famous twenty-third of them begins "The Lord is my shepherd."
ANSWER: Book of Psalms [or Tehillim] <Gupta>
7. Jerusalem's Old City is home to a quarter named for this country, the first officially Christian nation in the world.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this modern-day country whose diaspora communities grew after its people were targeted for
extermination by the Ottoman Empire in 1915.
ANSWER: Armenia [or Hayastan]
[10] An Armenian community developed in this country during the reign of King Alaungpaya of the Konbaung
dynasty. This country was first unified by the Pagan kingdom.
ANSWER: Burma [or Myanmar]
[10] The Armenians travelled to Burma from New Julfa, a quarter established for them in Isfahan by Abbas I, the
ruler of this dynasty. This Shi'ite Persian dynasty was founded by Ismail I.
ANSWER: Safavid Dynasty or Empire <Brownstein>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 9 of 13

8. Following World War II, this country's border with the Soviet Union was restored to the Curzon Line. For 10
points each:
[10] Identify this country which was jointly invaded by Germany and the Soviet Union in September 1939 following
the signing of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact.
ANSWER: Poland [or Republic of Poland; or Polska]
[10] The Nazi invasion of Poland was followed by this period of inaction, in which Britain and France launched no
offensives against the Germans despite having declared war.
ANSWER: Phoney War [or Sitzkrieg]
[10] The London-based government in exile of Poland severed its diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union after
the Germans publicized this massacre of over four thousand Polish officers near Smolensk.
ANSWER: Katyn Forest massacre <Bentley>
9. The English word "pecuniary" derives from the Latin word pecus for these creatures, indicating that much of the
ancient world regarded these animals as a visible sign of wealth. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these livestock animals. Herding these creatures was the primary occupation of the Argentine gauchos.
ANSWER: cattle [or cows; or bulls; or oxen]
[10] This country's cattle industry employed "drovers" and "stockmen" to push cattle around. In its other dealings
with herds of animals, it constructed a massive fence to wall off an out-of-control rabbit population and used
machine guns in a "war" against its flightless birds in the 1930s.
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
[10] This tribe of nomadic cattle herders, closely related to the Samburu and Turkana, has heavily intermarried with
the Kikuyu. Outside Kenya, their morani, or warriors, have a reputation as fierce lion hunters.
ANSWER: Masai [or Maasai] <Wynne>
10. Answer the following about Rabindranath Tagore, for 10 points each.
[10] He became the first non-European to win a Nobel Prize in Literature in part because of W. B. Yeats's efforts
promoting this collection of his poems, which begins with the line "thou hast made me endless, such is thy
pleasure". Its title translates as "Song Offering".
ANSWER: Gitanjali
[10] Tagore both wrote and scored two works in this genre, India's Jana Gana Mana and Bangladesh's Amar Sonar
Bangla.
ANSWER: national anthems [or national hymns; or national songs]
[10] Tagore also wrote, composed, and starred in an opera about "the genius of" this semi-legendary poet, who was
a fiendish bandit leader named Ratnakar before reforming, inventing the shloka, and writing the Ramayana.
ANSWER: Valmiki [or Balmiki; or Valmiki-Pratibha; or The Genius of Valmiki] <Carson>
11. The lecture that introduced this phrase made clear that it only applied to people, citing the example of a paperknife to show that most objects are predefined by their craftsmen. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this three-word phrase first delivered in 1946. It basically means that people can choose to create their
own value systems and views of human nature, rather than having any intrinsic nature up-front.
ANSWER: "existence precedes essence" [or l'existence precede l'essence; or existence comes before
essence ]
[10] That phrase came from a lecture likening existentialism to this kind of philosophy, which lauds the power and
dignity of individual people. A Renaissance philosophy of this name involved deep study of classical texts.
ANSWER: humanism [or Existentialism is a Humanism; or Existentialism As a Humanism; or Renaissance
humanism; or classical humanism; or secular humanism]
[10] This Frenchman coined the phrase "existence precedes essence" in his lecture "Existentialism is a Humanism."
He wrote that many people live in a state of inauthentic "bad faith" in Being and Nothingness.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Charles Aymard Sartre <Jackson>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 10 of 13

12. This hero inserts a lead-tipped spear into the fire-breathing mouth of his greatest enemy, causing it to suffocate
to death on the melting lead. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this hero who slays the Chimera after using a golden bridle to tame the winged horse Pegasus.
ANSWER: Bellerophon [or Bellerophontes]
[10] After Bellerophon slays the Chimera, his hubris leads him to attempt this task that is foiled by a stinging gadfly
sent by Zeus.
ANSWER: he attempts to scale Mount Olympus [or he attempts to fly up Mount Olympus; or obvious
equivalents]
[10] Pegasus is first discovered at one of these locations called the Pirene. Another is created when Pegasus kicks his
hoof into the ground, and a third is cursed by Hermaphroditus to imbue men with femininity.
ANSWER: springs [or fountains; or pools] <Kim>
13. A 1929 sculpture of this subject was the first to display the influence of the "Chacmool." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this recurring motif in the sculptures of British artist Henry Moore. Along with the mother and child, it
was his favorite subject.
ANSWER: reclining figure [or recumbent figure or reclining woman]
[10] Moore blended Cubism with this other aesthetic, which emphasizes freedom from the Western classical
tradition in favor of tribal or exotic influences. Paul Gauguin's Tahitian paintings are considered seminal works in
this movement.
ANSWER: primitivism [or primitive art or other word forms; prompt on or naïve art or naïvism or word forms]
[10] The Chacmool sculptures which inspired Moore were carved by these Pre-Columbian people of Mesoamerica.
They also built the cities of Chichen Itza and Tikal.
ANSWER: Mayans [or Mayas] <Rosenberg>
14. Identify the following about the Count-Duke of Olivares, for 10 points each.
[10] Olivares was a minister of this Spanish king, for whom he built the Buen Retiro palace. The next Spanish
monarch with the same name as this king sparked a war by succeeding the feeble-minded Charles II.
ANSWER: Philip IV of Spain [or Felipe IV of Spain or Philip III of Portugal or Philip III of Aragon; do not
accept or prompt on just "Philip III" or "Philip V"; prompt on Philip; prompt on Felipe]
[10] J. H. Elliott wrote a dual biography of Olivares and this French minister, nicknamed "The Red Eminence."
This cardinal held great power during the reign of Louis XIII.
ANSWER: Cardinal Richelieu [or Armand-Jean du Plessis, cardinal et duc de Richelieu]
[10] Olivares fell from power following a revolt in this region of Spain that includes the cities of Girona and
Barcelona. This region achieved a short-lived independence as a republic under the Esquerra Party in 1931.
ANSWER: Catalonia [or Cataluna or Catalunya] <Bentley>
15. These associations were known as germanies in Valencia, where they revolted in 1519. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these associations of merchants, craftsmen, or artisans who each monopolized a single trade in a given
town. Many of them consist of master craftsmen and their many apprentices.
ANSWER: guilds
[10] People in this intermediate stage between apprentice and master spent several years traveling from town to
town gaining experience, culminating in a "masterpiece" to be presented to the guild.
ANSWER: journeymen [or journeyman]
[10] The Marx brothers guild arose in 16th century Germany for enthusiasts for this recreational activity, whose
Dardi school arose in Bologna. Its two main traditions are the "classical" and the "academic."
ANSWER: fencing [accept word forms; prompt on swordsmanship or related answers] <Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 11 of 13

16. The solubility of complexes with this ligand are pH-dependent. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this anion which bonds to alkali and alkaline earth metals in many strong bases.
ANSWER: hydroxide [or OH-]
[10] Many metallic hydroxides also demonstrate this property, in which they will both accept and donate electron
pairs in solution. Zinc oxide also has this property.
ANSWER: amphoteric [or amphoterism; prompt on amphiprotic or word forms]
[10] Oddly, this element's hydroxide salt is only an acid, and not a base. A bridging hydrogen atom can link two
atoms of this element together using only two total electrons in a complex similar to many carbocations.
ANSWER: boron [or B] <Silverman>
17. The Book of Images contains a poem about one of these creatures that begins "You are the bird whose wings
came when I wakened in the night and called." For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these beings. The second in a series of poems named for an Italian castle calls them "Creation's
favorite ones", and like the first poem in that collection notes that every one of them "is terror".
ANSWER: angels [or Engel]
[10] This German poet of the Sonnets to Orpheus described angels as terrifying in his masterpiece, the Duino Elegies.
ANSWER: Rainer Maria Rilke (RIL-kuh) [or Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]
[10] In 2001, the NYRB published the 1926 correspondence between Rilke, Marina Tsvetayeva, and this other
Russian, whose collection My Sister, Life is modeled on Rilke. He was forced to decline the Nobel in 1958 after the
publication of a novel whose title character has a long love affair with Pasha Antipov's wife Lara.
ANSWER: Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak; the novel is Doctor Zhivago] <Jose>
18. A bacterium with this shape uses the siderophore proteins IsdX1 and IsdX2 to scavenge heme from
hemoglobin, and can unusually synthesize a polyglutamate protein capsule. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this shape of the causative agents of "fried rice syndrome," and anthrax, and other members of the
genus Bacillus. The three most common bacterial morphologies are twisted, spherical, and this shape.
ANSWER: rod-shaped
[10] Like all Gram-positive bacteria, species of genus Bacillus have a thick layer of peptidoglycan in this outermost
protective structure which surrounds the cell membrane and is absent in animals.
ANSWER: cell wall [prompt on wall]
[10] This other genus of Gram-positive bacteria includes species sordelii, which can cause a rare fatal infection after
abortions, species tetani, which causes tetanus, and the causative agent of botulism, botulinum.
ANSWER: Clostridium <Gupta>
19. Identify the following about the painting Mural with Blue Brushstroke, for 10 points each.
[10] Mural with Blue Brushstroke was painted by Roy Lichtenstein, whose art style employs ben-day dots and other
tropes from this medium of popular art. Lichtenstein's Drowning Girl also apes this medium by using elements such
as thought bubbles.
ANSWER: comics [or comic books or comic strips or cartoons]
[10] At the bottom of the painting, a shadow on a door references Baluster and Skull by this pioneering Cubist. A
critic's response to this French artist's Houses at l'Estaque coined the name for Cubism.
ANSWER: Georges Braque
[10] The person holding a beachball evokes this French "Tubist's" The Dance. He also constructed human figures
from gear-like shapes in paintings such as The Card Party.
ANSWER: Fernand Leger <Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 12 of 13

20. The last words of this story's main character are addressed to "the old-timer of Sulphur Creek", whose advice he
had previously ignored. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this story about a foolhardy man traveling on the Yukon trail on an incredibly cold day. He accidentally
falls into a river and ultimately dies after failing to complete the title task before he freezes to death.
ANSWER: "To Build a Fire"
[10] "To Build a Fire" was written by this American naturalist, who used dogs as the protagonists of his most
famous novels, White Fang and The Call of the Wild.
ANSWER: Jack London [or John Griffith London; or John Griffith Chaney]
[10] This other oft-anthologized London story stars the revolutionary Felipe Rivera, who triumphs in a seventeenround boxing match against Danny Ward in order to secure funding for his employers in the Junta.
ANSWER: "The Mexican" <Carson>
21. The "World's Oldest Living Bolshevik" gives a speech at the beginning of this play's second part, entitled
Perestroika. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play written by Tony Kushner subtitled "A Gay Fantasia on National Themes." In it, Prior Walter
experiences a series of supernatural visions and Ethel Rosenberg informs Roy Cohn that he has been disbarred.
ANSWER: Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
[10] In order to maintain his reputation, Roy Cohn pretends to have liver cancer rather than this disease. Prior
Walter later obtains Roy's stash of AZT and also uses it to treat this disease.
ANSWER: AIDS [or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; prompt on HIV; or human immunodeficiency
virus]
[10] This best-selling expose written by Randy Shilts investigated the causes of the AIDS epidemic in the 1980s and
condemned the institutional indifference of governments and the media.
ANSWER: And the Band Played On: Politics, People, and the AIDS Epidemic <Cheng>
22. After leaving this region, impulses travel along namesake left and right branches running along the
interventricular septum. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this set of cardiac muscle cells that transmits electrical impulses to the Purkinje fibers.
ANSWER: bundle of His [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Impulses traveling to the bundle of His, and across the left and right bundle branches, correspond to the PR
interval observed in the readout of this medical technique, which places ten electrodes on the chest and limbs of a
patient to monitor their heart's electrical activity.
ANSWER: electrocardiogram [or EKG; or ECG]
[10] The conduction system of the heart originates at the sinoatrial node, which is given this nickname for its ability
to generate rhythmic impulses by contracting. A medical device with this name is implanted into the heart and
generates those impulses artificially.
ANSWER: pacemaker [accept word forms] <Gupta>
23. Identify the following about the Count-Duke of Olivares, for 10 points each.
[10] Olivares was a minister of this Spanish king, for whom he built the Buen Retiro palace. The next Spanish
monarch with the same name as this king sparked a war by succeeding the feeble-minded Charles II.
ANSWER: Philip IV of Spain [or Felipe IV of Spain or Philip III of Portugal or Philip III of Aragon; do not
accept or prompt on just "Philip III" or "Philip V"; prompt on Philip; prompt on Felipe]
[10] J. H. Elliott wrote a dual biography of Olivares and this French minister, nicknamed "The Red Eminence."
This cardinal held great power during the reign of Louis XIII.
ANSWER: Cardinal Richelieu [or Armand-Jean du Plessis, cardinal et duc de Richelieu]
[10] Olivares fell from power following a revolt in this region of Spain that includes the cities of Girona and
Barcelona. This region achieved a short-lived independence as a republic under the Esquerra Party in 1931.
ANSWER: Catalonia [or Cataluna or Catalunya] <Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 02 - Page 13 of 13

