2015 NSC - Official Scoresheet
Round

14

Room

Bracket
Reader

Team

Team

Player
Names

Q#

Bonus

Steals

Ques.
Total

Run.
Score

Bonus

Steals

Ques.
Total

Run.
score

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
TB1
TB2
TB3
SD
Player
20s
Player
10s
Point
totals

Final
score
Out:
Out:

Substitutions before Tossup 11
In:
In:

Out:
Out:

Substitutions before Tossup 11
In:
In:

Circle winning team above. Clearly mark if game goes to OT/SD. Fill out “Point totals” row completely.
If there are substitutions, please note tossups by each player in “20s” and “10s” rows. Below is for Tab Room use only:

RH

RS

BH

BS

Left

Right

BH

BS

RH

RS

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 1 of 13

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Tossups
1. In the worst case, this function is the tight asymptotic lower bound of the median of medians algorithm
to select the kth largest element. For a word size of k, the worst case performance of radix sort is big O of
k times this function with respect to the elements being sorted. Searching an unbalanced binary search
tree has a worst case runtime tightly bounded by this function. This function is the best case time
complexity of (*) bubble sort. Algorithms that traverse from the first to last element in a singly linked list without
a tail pointer and ones that iterate through a one-dimensional array in a for loop are bounded by this function. For
10 points, name this function that dominates algorithms that run in Big O of n time.
ANSWER: linear function [or linear time; or Big O of n until it is read] <Bentley>
2. At the end of this novel, the protagonist thinks "Zero hour...time to go" after habitually checking his
broken watch. A flashback describes how its protagonist's father pursues a relationship with the lab tech
Ramona after the protagonist's mother Sharon abandoned him, taking his pet rakunk Killer. In a narrative
thread of this novel, the protagonist travels from the "pleeblands" to the ruins of Paradice. A character in
this novel who attends the Watson-Crick Institute and gets a job with (*) RejoovenEsense took his nickname
from the game Extinctathon. This novel's sequel in the MaddAddam trilogy is The Year of the Flood. For 10 points,
name this 2003 novel in which Snowman's flashbacks detail his pre-apocalypse life with the two title characters, by
Margaret Atwood.
ANSWER: Oryx and Crake <Carson>
3. Nusselt film theory describes this process. The working fluid undergoes this process after it is turbined,
before it is pumped, in a Rankine cycle. An exit stream undergoes this process, and then a recycle, during
reflux. This process shares its name with a method of polymerization contrasted with addition. Cold
fingers are used to effect this process, which often occurs in glassware named for (*) Liebig. Silver iodide
serves as a nucleus for this process to occur during cloud seeding. This process begins to happen as temperature
dips below the dew point. This process occurs in the tube leading to the receiving flask in a distillation. This
exothermic process is the inverse of vaporization. For 10 points, name this process in which a vapor is converted
into a liquid.
ANSWER: condensation [or condensation polymerization; prompt on cooling or subcooling or
supercooling] <Silverman>
4. An unfinished piece by this composer contains a central "Purgatorio" movement surrounded by two
scherzos. Another of his pieces ends with an alto or baritone repeating "Ewig… ewig" (ay-vig), or
"Forever… forever." The opening adagio was the only movement of his tenth symphony that he fully
orchestrated before his death. Leonard Bernstein was the first to record the complete set of this
composer's symphonies and song cycles, one of which opens with "The (*) Drinking Song of Earth's
Misery." This composer's eighth symphony sets the hymn "Veni Creator Spiritus" in the first part and the finale
from Goethe's Faust in the second, and is nicknamed for the many musicians required. For 10 points, name this
composer of Das Lied von der Erde and the "Symphony of a Thousand."
ANSWER: Gustav Mahler <Rosenberg>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 2 of 13

5. This event largely did not affect institutions which belonged to the Suffolk system. A cartoon depicting
"The Times" of this event shows a shining hat subtitled "GLORY" in the sky above a city street. During
this event, thousands of New Yorkers attacked hoarding merchants in the Flour Riots. This event inspired
the unsuccessful Divorce Bill and the narrowly-passed Independent Treasury Act. This event is often
blamed on an order issued by Levi Woodbury which prevented (*) public lands from being bought with
"wildcat currency." This event was partly caused by the Specie Circular and by the credit policies of "pet banks." For
10 points, name this economic crisis, a financial panic that began in the first year of Martin Van Buren's term.
ANSWER: Panic of 1837 <Brownstein>
6. A body movement called "arc de cercle" affected people diagnosed with this condition by Jean-Martin
Charcot. The idea of pressing a doctor's thumb to the patient's forehead to relieve this condition was
relayed in a text co-written by Josef Breuer. In the late 19th century, physicians like George Taylor induced
what they called "paroxysm" to treat this condition, often using mechanical (*) vibrators. Bertha
Pappenheim, known as "Anna O," was the main case study in Sigmund Freud's 1896 Studies on this disorder. The
Greek-derived name for this condition reflects the ancient view that it stemmed from an internally-wandering
uterus. For 10 points, name this now-discredited mental diagnosis usually given to women, whose purported "mass"
form causes society-wide panic.
ANSWER: hysteria [or conversion disorder] <Jackson>
7. This deity transforms Nyctimene, who had been raped by her father, into a symbolic animal. During the
Gigantomachy, this deity hurls the island of Sicily at the fleeing Enceladus. This deity gives Heracles a
Hephaestus-crafted rattle with which to frighten the Stymphalian Birds. This deity assists Telemachus in
the disguise of Mentor. According to Ovid, this goddess angrily tears up the winning (*) tapestry of
Arachne before turning her into a spider. She is born after her mother is turned into a fly and swallowed by Zeus,
who suffers an enormous headache and calls for Hephaestus to cleave his skull, from which this goddess emerges
fully armed. For 10 points, name this daughter of Metis and Zeus, the martial Olympian goddess of wisdom.
ANSWER: Athena [or Minerva; or Athene; or Pallas Athena] <Gupta>
8. This author wrote a short story in which Mr. Swaffer gives a house to the title character and her husband
Yanko Goorall, the latter of whom calls out for water in his native tongue and is abandoned before his
death. In another of his stories, a captain decides to help the deserter Leggatt escape from the HMS
Sephora. Another character created by this author describes his trip to a "whited sepulchre" to accept a
job from the (*) Company to replace Fresleven. This author wrote a book about a journey made to the Central
Station that is part of a framed narrative told onboard the Nellie. For 10 points, name this Polish-born British author
of the short stories "Amy Foster" and "The Secret Sharer" who wrote about Marlow's search for Kurtz in Heart of
Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Josef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski] <Gehring>
9. In China, statues of this animal often appear as the pedestal of monuments like the Nestorian Stele.
According to legend, a golden one of these animals took a sword called Heaven's Will back from
Vietnamese freedom fighter Le Loi. Objects named for this animal were used in a "crane formation" to
win the Battle of Hansan Island and the Battle of Sacheon during the Imjin War. Admiral Yi invented that
type of (*) vessel named for this animal, which was used to thwart Toyotomi Hideyoshi's attempted invasion of the
Joseon kingdom. Along with ox scapulae, a notable part of these animals were inscribed with questions then heated
to make oracle bones. For 10 points, name these animals, which name a sort of Korean ship with a shelled exterior.
ANSWER: turtles [or tortoises; or bixi] <Brownstein>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 3 of 13

10. A prominent visitor center in this region is named for Ernest Coe, whose advocacy for this region
alienated pretty much everyone. The Bear Lake Mounds are in this ecological region, where humans built
the Mud Lake Canal between 750 and 1200 AD. HM-69, a Nike Hercules Missile base, is located in this
region. The Calusa people once inhabited this region which is cut through by the (*) Tamiami Trail. Marjory
Stoneman Douglas advocated for saving this region, which is afflicted by invasive species such as the melaleuca tree
and the Burmese python. It held an early ballistic anti-nuke system to defend against the Cuban nuclear threats. For
ten points, name this so-called "River of Grass," a protected wetlands between Lake Okeechobee and Biscayne Bay
in southern Florida.
ANSWER: Florida Everglades [or Everglades National Park; prompt on "Florida"] <Gupta>
11. The most common region used in animal DNA barcoding is a stretch of 600 base pairs encoding a
subunit of one of these proteins. After being released into the cytoplasm, one of these proteins binds to
Apaf-1, initiating the instrinsic apoptosis pathway. In phase I of drug metabolism, polar groups are
introduced to chemicals by the P450 oxidase type of these proteins. One of these proteins in the thylakoid
membrane transfers electrons between (*) photosystems II and I. One of these proteins gets reduced by the
oxidation of coenzyme Q in Complex III, and four of them each transfer an electron to one oxygen molecule to
make water in Complex IV. For 10 points, name these heme-containing proteins whose "c" variety plays a key role
in the electron transport chain.
ANSWER: cytochromes [accept cytochrome c oxidase; accept cytochrome b6f; accept cytochrome bc1]
<Gupta>
12. In one work by this man, a judge named Bridoye reveals that he has always doled out sentences by
rolling dice. This author was said to have employed the trope of the "grotesque body" to critique the wars
of his time in a Mikhail Bakhtin study named after this man "and his world". Another of this man's
characters determines whether or not he should get married by making a journey to (*) Bacbuc, where he is
told to "drink!" One of this author's title characters builds a religious institution which has the motto "Do what
thou wilt". This author satirized contemporary religion by creating the Oracle of the Holy Bottle and the Abbey of
Theleme in a series of satirical novels named for two giants. For 10 points, name this French creator of Gargantua
and Pantagruel.
ANSWER: Francois Rabelais [or Alcofribas Nasier] <Jose>
13. The lands belonging to these people were partitioned during a period known as "The Ruin." These
people formed a vassal state after rebelling against the rule of foreign magnates in the Khmelnytsky
Uprising, which marked the beginning of The Deluge. The words "Volga, Volga" begin a popular folk
song about a leader of these people named Stenka Razin. These people formed a (*) "hetmanate" called the
Zaporizhian host. One of their leaders impersonated Peter III and led a 1773 rebellion against Catherine the Great.
Yemelyan Pugachev was a member of these people, many of whom lived around the Don or Dnieper River. For 10
points, name these nomadic warrior people who alternately rebelled against or fought for Russia.
ANSWER: Cossacks <Wang>
14. In statistical mechanics, the expected number of these particles in a given state is inversely
proportional to an exponential weight minus one. Composite particles that belong to this general class are
the basis for the BCS theory of superconductivity. These particles leave the sign of the wavefunction
unchanged upon particle exchange and include (*) Cooper pairs. They do not obey the Pauli exclusion
principle because they obey a set of statistics named for their namesake and Einstein. Photons are an example of the
"gauge" type of these particles that have integer spin. For 10 points, name this particle whose Higgs type was
discovered at the Large Hadron Collider.
ANSWER: bosons <Eltinge>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 4 of 13

15. The Getty Museum contains a portrait study by this artist of a model from Santo Domingo named
Joseph with upturned eyes. During a trip to Rome, he painted a nude man holding back a terrified horse
before it takes off down the Corso. The psychiatrist Étienne-Jean Georget commissioned him to make
Portrait of a Kleptomaniac, for which this artist visited an (*) insane asylum. In another painting, a military
officer is seated almost completely turned around on his rearing horse, and brandishes a curved sword. This artist of
Race of the Riderless Horses and The Charging Chasseur also painted a black man standing atop a human pyramid and
waving a rag to attract a distant ship. For 10 points, name this French painter of The Raft of the Medusa.
ANSWER: Jean Louis Theodore Gericault <Bentley>
16. Frank Ramsey translated this book into English at Cambridge while its author was allegedly twisting
kids' ears as a provincial schoolteacher. According to this book, facts can be combined into a "picture"
which has a "representing relation" to reality, though the limits of one's language are the limits of one's
world. This book's author later rejected that theory in favor of a "family resemblances" theory of meaning.
This book, which inspired the pro-science (*) Vienna Circle, has a title paralleling a book on religion by Baruch
Spinoza. It starts by asserting "The world is everything that is the case" and ends "What we cannot speak of, we
must pass over in silence." For 10 points, name this attempt to solve all of philosophy, a short early work by Ludwig
Wittgenstein.
ANSWER: Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus [prompt on Ludwig Wittgenstein's Tractatus] <Jackson>
17. The Cave of Ramban in this place is considered the final resting place of Nachmanides. In the birkat
hamazon, a set of blessings said after consuming bread, the third blessing concerns this place. The
Talmudic legend about Akiva being a "lyre for all your songs" inspired a popular song about this place
"of Gold." Many Passover services end with the participants singing the song (*) "Next Year in" this place.
A pair of historical tragedies in this city is remembered on the Ninth of Av. Its "Old City" includes a popular site of
lamentation, the Western Wall, as well as the Temple Mount, the place where the Tabernacle was kept within the
Holy of Holies. For 10 points, name this city where many Jews believe a Third Temple will be built in end times.
ANSWER: Jerusalem [or Yerushalayim; or Old City until mentioned; accept Upper Kidron Valley until "this
city" is read; accept Wadi al-Joz until "this city" is read] <Gupta>
18. In this novel, a character promotes healthy living with initiatives like Banish the Booze Week and
Better Babies Week. Joyce Lanyon enters a loveless marriage with this novel's main character before he
moves to Vermont at this book's end. A woman in this novel dies after smoking a half-finished cigarette
while on St. Hubert. This novel's title character hosts a lunch to which he invites his two fiancees, of
whom he eventually chooses a native of Wheatsylvania, North Dakota named (*) Leora Tozer. The
protagonist of this book grows up in Elk Mills in the state of Winnemac, and discovers the X Principle while
working with fellow scientists Terry Wickett and Max Gottlieb. For 10 points, name this novel by Sinclair Lewis,
whose title character is a doctor named Martin.
ANSWER: Arrowsmith <Sy>
19. One player of this instrument collaborated on the album At Basin Street with Clifford Brown. Another
player of this instrument played on a duet with Sonny Rollins on the song The Surrey with the Fringe on
Top. Two players of this instrument collaborated on an album that contains tracks of each of their
"blues". In 1952, those two players "battled" at a Carnegie Hall concert. Another player of this instrument
recorded the album (*) Moanin along with his Jazz Messengers. Played by Max Roach and Art Blakey, this
instrument joins the piano and a bass in the normal lineup of a jazz trio. Players of this instrument frequently use
the hi-hat and sometimes use brushes. For ten points, name this instrument played by Gene Krupa and Buddy Rich,
a percussion instrument.
ANSWER: drums [ or drum kit; prompt on percussion] <Puma>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 5 of 13

20. The Haldane Mission attempted to curb the spending on these objects. Horace de Vere Cole
pretended to be part of a delegation from Abyssinia so that he and his friends, including Virginia Woolf,
could visit one of these objects. This was the less common of the two objects that the country meeting the
"two-power standard" built more of. Alfred von Tirpitz urged the construction of both the normal and (*)
pocket type of these objects. A 5:5:3 ratio of these objects was fixed at the 1921-22 Washington Arms Conference.
A generation of these objects known as "dreadnoughts" were revolutionary for their steam turbines and all-big-gun
armaments. For 10 points, name these vehicles that the Germans and British competed to build in an early 20th
century naval arms race.
ANSWER: battleships [prompt on ships; prompt on warships] <Gupta>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 6 of 13

21. The protagonist of a novel by this author receives a letter containing a $5000 bill, which he refers to as a
"portrait of Madison". An affair with Linda Loring and threats from Mendy Menendez complicate the plot
of a novel by this author in which the protagonist attempts to keep Roger Wade sober and eventually
learns that Paul Marston and Terry Lennox are the same person. The blackmail efforts of Arthur Geiger
prompt General Sternwood to hire the protagonist, who learns that Eddie (*) Mars helped Vivian Sternwood
conceal her sister Carmen's murder of Rusty Regan, in a novel by this author titled for a euphemism for death. For
10 points, name this author of hardboiled novels like The Long Goodbye and The Big Sleep, which both star his
detective Philip Marlowe.
ANSWER: Raymond Chandler [or Raymond Thornton Chandler] <Carson>
22. Edmund Morris wrote a semi-fictional biography of this man titled Dutch. This man signed the US's
first no-fault divorce law into law. This man asked "Will [future generations] look back with appreciated
and say, 'Thank God for those people … who headed off that loss of freedom?’” in his “A Time for
Choosing" speech. During a debate against an incumbent president, this man asked the audience, "Are
you better off than you were four years ago?" As president, this man defeated an (*) air traffic controller
strike, launched Operation Urgent Fury against Grenada, and survived an assassination attempt from John
Hinckley. For 10 points, name this president who defeated Jimmy Carter to become president in the election of
1980.
ANSWER: Ronald Wilson Reagan <Bentley>
23. Madin-Darby canine cells from this organ are commonly used for vaccine manufacture. Drugs like
ethacrynic acid and furosemide act on this organ to treat edema and hypertension. Foot processes link
podocytes to this organ's basement membrane. Intercalated cells in this organ strongly express sodiumproton antiporters. Calcium oxalate is the major component of a namesake (*) mineral concretion that forms
in this organ. ADH stimulates this organ's collecting ducts to express aquaporins for osmoregulation.
Countercurrent exchange in this organ through two tubules, an ascending limb, and the descending limb of the loop
of Henle moderates glucose, sodium, and water concentration. For 10 points, name this organ whose nephrons
filter blood.
ANSWER: kidneys [or glomerulus] <Silverman>
24. In both of these two countries, a football chant was co-opted into a slogan denouncing a political
leader as a "dickhead." The colloquial term "little green men" refers to masked soldiers in one of these
two countries armed with military equipment provided by the other. One of these two countries routinely
demonizes the far-right wing Right Sector party in the other. One of these two countries issued passports
to members of the secret police force (*) Berkut after it was dissolved by the other country. Both of these two
countries have been blamed for shooting down Malaysian Airlines Flight 17 during their ongoing war in the region
of Donbass. For 10 points, name these two countries whose relationship soured when one annexed Crimea from
the other.
ANSWER: Russia and Ukraine [or Russian Federation and Ukraine; or Rossiya and Ukrayina; accept answers
listing the countries in either order] <Gupta>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 7 of 13

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Bonuses
1. This man proposed that an apple falls from the tree because its nature compels it to return to earth and fulfill its
final cause, or telos. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Greek philosopher who analyzed why things are the way they are in terms of "four causes." He
tutored Alexander the Great and founded the Lyceum a generation after Plato's Academy.
ANSWER: Aristotle of Stagira [or Aristoteles]
[10] In discussing material versus formal causes, Aristotle claimed the claim that you can't make one of these places
by just dumping a pile of bricks somewhere. In an ancient Greek polis, each male citizen ran an oikos centered
around one of these places.
ANSWER: household [or homes; or estates; prompt on buildings]
[10] When people today say the verb "cause," they mean this third of Aristotle's four causes, the actual instigator
which brings about an event. When building a house, the work of a builder to assemble the bricks is this type of
cause.
ANSWER: efficient causes <Jackson>
2. Answer the following about the economic history of sandalwood, for 10 points each.
[10] In the early 19th century, sandalwood was the chief export of this kingdom, which the Chinese called "Tan
Heong Shan," meaning "fragrant sandalwood mountains". Sugar planters backed the Bayonet Constitution in the
final years of this kingdom's independence.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Hawai'i [or Hawaiian Empire]
[10] Sandalwood, silver and this other good were practically the only goods China imported during the 19th century.
Unease about British smugglers of this narcotic, which the British grew in India, led to its two namesake wars in
China.
ANSWER: opium [or poppy tears; or Opium Wars]
[10] Americans first traded sandalwood obtained from this island group, which was once dominated by King
Cakobau of the Bau Kingdom. Mahendra Chaudhry was the first person of Indian ancestry to become prime
minister of this Commonwealth nation.
ANSWER: Republic of Fiji [or Viti] <Bentley>
3. Kenneth Clark wrote that this sculpture ushered in a new age where "the pleasure in the human body once more
became a permissible subject of art". For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this first bronze sculpture of an unsupported nude cast since antiquity. It was commissioned by
Cosimo de Medici in 1440.
ANSWER: David
[10] David was sculpted by this Renaissance master. An earlier statue of David by this artist stood in the Palazzo
Vecchio but was later overshadowed by a bigger David by Michelangelo.
ANSWER: Donatello
[10] Donatello also made sculptures of Saints Mark and George for the niches of this Florentine church, which was
once used as a grain storehouse. Nanni di Banco's Four Crowned Saints occupies another niche here.
ANSWER: Orsanmichele [or "Kitchen Garden of St. Michael"] <Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 8 of 13

4. This equation relates the Hamiltonian operator to the energy operator, the latter of which is given by i times hbar times d over d-t. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this equation whose Austrian creator also names a thought experiment involving a cat.
ANSWER: Schroedinger wave equation
[10] The Schroedinger equation is an example of this general class of equations, which involves the derivatives of
functions of more than one variable. Other examples from physics include the heat equation and the general wave
equation.
ANSWER: partial differential equation [or PDE; prompt on partial answer]
[10] One can solve the Schroedinger equation using this semiclassical method, in which the wavefunction is
described by an exponential with slowly changing amplitude and phase.
ANSWER: WKB approximation [or Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin approximation; or LG method; or LiouvilleGreen method] <Neithalath>
5. This man rallies his followers by repeatedly asking "is there still powder in your flasks?" in a battle that sees the
death of the hetman Kukubenko. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Cossack who shoots his son Andriy for betraying him for a Polish girl. He burns numerous towns in
revenge for the killing of his son Ostap, before being burned alive himself.
ANSWER: Taras Bulba [accept either name]
[10] "Taras Bulba" is a story by this Ukrainian author of "The Nose", who wrote about Chichikov's scheme to
acquire the rights to deceased serfs in his novel Dead Souls.
ANSWER: Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol
[10] In this other Gogol story, the ghost of Akaky Akakievich wanders St. Petersburg stealing the title garment after
he dies from being ridiculed by a high-ranking official.
ANSWER: "The Overcoat" [or "Shinel"] <Yu>
6. This person was sent an anonymous e-mail stating, "You asked why I chose you. I didn't. You chose yourself".
For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this documentarian who opened her Oscar-winning 2014 film, Citizenfour, by reading those and other emails concerning government surveillance.
ANSWER: Laura Poitras
[10] The aforementioned e-mail was sent by this NSA whistleblower. With the help of journalists such as Glenn
Greenwald, this former sysadmin publicized the PRISM program.
ANSWER: Edward Snowden [or Ed Snowden or Edward Joseph Snowden]
[10] Greenwald published some of the first stories based on Snowden's information in this newspaper, which also
broke the News of the World phone hacking scandal.
ANSWER: The Guardian <Bentley>
7. In the Exclusion Crisis, Parliament tried to remove this king's brother from the lines of succession due to his
Catholicism. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this king of England who came to power in 1660 and presided over the Restoration of the English
monarchy.
ANSWER: Charles II [or the Merry Monarch; prompt on Charles]
[10] The Exclusion Crisis unfolded after the Anglican clergyman Titus Oates lied about this conspiracy by claiming
that Catholics were planning to kill Charles. This plot gained little traction until Edmund Godfrey, the magistrate to
whom Oates gave his "evidence," was found murdered.
ANSWER: Popish Plot
[10] This early Whig politician arrested five Catholic Lords pinpointed by Oates as being in on the plot, and cooked
up the plan to exclude Charles's brother James. He also furthered the philosophical career of his secretary, John
Locke.
ANSWER: Anthony Ashley Cooper [or Anthony Ashley Cooper, 1st Earl of Shaftesbury; or Sir Anthony Ashley
Cooper, 2nd Baronet; or The Lord Ashley] <Gupta>
PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 9 of 13

8. This man takes care of Adele Varens, who was abandoned by her mother, a French dancer. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this husband of Bertha Mason, who marries the title character of a novel after she returns from the
house of St. John Rivers.
ANSWER: Edward Rochester [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Edward Rochester marries Jane Eyre, the protagonist of this woman's most famous novel. This author of
Villette is the eldest of her sisters.
ANSWER: Charlotte Bronte [prompt on Bronte; prompt on "Currer Bell"]
[10] This seamstress, another woman employed by Mr. Rochester, is who Jane originally believes is the source of the
sounds on the third floor. This woman turns out to be the caretaker of Bertha Mason.
ANSWER: Grace Poole [accept either underlined portion] <Sy>
9. This equation could be used to estimate the extent of ionization of ferrous ions to ferric ions in solution. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this equation which can be used to calculate very dilute concentrations of ions, which is why it is applied
by glucose sensors and sensitive pH meters. A constant factor of 0.059 is included in this equation at standard
conditions.
ANSWER: Nernst equation
[10] The concentrations are included in this term of the Nernst equation. When this quantity is larger than the
equilibrium constant, Le Chatelier's principle predicts the equilibrium will shift towards the reactants.
ANSWER: reaction quotient [or Q]
[10] The shift occurs to minimize this quantity at equilibrium. This form of free energy is symbolized G.
ANSWER: Gibbs free energy <Silverman>
10. This monster has four eyes, six necks, twelve legs, a cat's tail, and four to six dog heads around its waist. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this woman loved by the fish-like Glaucus. Circe, who loves Glaucus, transforms this woman into a
monster in jealousy.
ANSWER: Scylla
[10] Scylla eats six crew-members of this hero during his ten-year journey back from Troy chronicled in a namesake
epic by Homer.
ANSWER: Odysseus [or Ulysses]
[10] In some accounts, Scylla was never a beautiful woman, but is spawned in her monster form by this couple, who
also beget the Gorgons, the Graeae, and Echidna.
ANSWER: Phorcys and Ceto [accept in either order; prompt on partial answer] <Kim>
11. A "fleshy" structure of this kind called the galbulus is produced by junipers and cypresses. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these geometrically-elegant reproductive structures consisting of scales arranged spirally in accordance to
the Fibonacci ratio, that are produced by the most abundant group of gymnosperms.
ANSWER: cones
[10] Conifer cones produce these structures, consisting of an embryonic plant and surrounding stored food,
encapsulated in a coat. Flowering plants use fruits to disseminate these objects.
ANSWER: seeds
[10] This living fossil, a unique species of tree in its own order within the gymnosperms, is native to China and has
unusually fan-shaped leaves growing on erratic branches.
ANSWER: Ginkgo biloba [or gingko; or maidenhair tree] <Gupta>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 10 of 13

12. One symphonic poem by this composer contrasts a theme representing the Sultan with a winding theme first
introduced in a violin solo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Russian composer, a member of The Five who wrote Scheherazade and used hymns from the Obikhod
in Russian Easter Festival Overture.
ANSWER: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov
[10] This five-movement orchestral suite by Rimsky-Korsakov, which imitates music of the title nationality, has a
"Scena e canto gitano" that opens with five cadenzas. It ends with a "Fandango asturiano."
ANSWER: Capriccio Espagnol [or Spanish Capriccio]
[10] The first and third movements of Capriccio Espagnol are this kind of piece played during sunrises. Ravel included
one of these "del Gracioso" in Miroirs.
ANSWER: alborada [or aubade] <Kothari>
13. In probability theory, an event is defined as a subset of this space. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this space, which consists of all possible outcomes. For flipping a coin twice, there are four entries in this
space.
ANSWER: sample space
[10] Since the set of outcomes for flipping a coin twice has this property, one defines a probability mass function
over it, and not a density function. This word is often considered to be the opposite of continuous.
ANSWER: discreteness [accept word forms]
[10] This quantity is defined as the sum over all elements of the probability that an event occurs times the event's
value. The square of this quantity and a squared random variable's value for this quantity appears in the definition
for variance.
ANSWER: expected value [accepted word forms, such as expectation value; do not accept or prompt on the
"mean"] <Jose>
14. Song dynasty scholar Su Shi contemplates a poem about the "bright moon" in the first of his fu titled for this
place, which he often traveled to while in exile. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this site of a climactic battle in which Liu Bei's advisor Zhuge ("joo-guh") Liang supposedly uses magic
to summon an out-of-season southeasterly wind, and Sun Quan's ("chwan's") general Huang Gai pretends to
defect in order to set fire to the villain's navy.
ANSWER: Red Cliffs [or Chi Bi]
[10] The losing side at the battle of Red Cliffs was led by this villainous general, whose son Pi founds the kingdom
of Wei later in the novel.
ANSWER: Cao Cao [prompt on partial answer; pronounced "tsow tsow" but accept a literal English reading like
"cow cow"; accept Cao Mengde]
[10] The Battle of Red Cliffs is fictionalized in this 14th century Chinese novel by Luo Guanzhong about the wars
at the end of and after the Han dynasty. Its major focus is on the battles between Wei, Wu, and Shu.
ANSWER: The Romance of the Three Kingdoms [or Sanguo yanyi; accept ROTK] <Yu>
15. The News of the World ran an editorial claiming that this "evil star" deliberately French kissed his Dynasty co-star
Linda Evans in order to give her his disease. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Hollywood star whose 1985 death helped draw attention to the AIDS epidemic.
ANSWER: Rock Hudson [or Roy Harold Scheer, Jr.; or Roy Harold Fitzgerald]
[10] Hudson managed to avoid this fate of many other Hollywood professionals at the height of the Red Scare. This
term refers to bans on employing people with suspected ties to Communism.
ANSWER: blacklisting [or being put on the Hollywood Blacklist]
[10] Dalton Trumbo was among a set of this many Hollywood screenwriters who were blacklisted for refusing to
answer questions at a HUAC hearing. The Constitutional amendment of this number reserves powers not delegated
by the Constitution to the states or the people.
ANSWER: ten [or Hollywood Ten; or Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution] <Bentley>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 11 of 13

16. The "second wave" of this movement included anti-pornography advocates Andrea Dworkin and Catherine
MacKinnon, who described the world power structure as a "patriarchy". For 10 points each:
[10] Name this movement for greater political, economic, and social equality, whose pioneers included Mary
Wollstonecraft.
ANSWER: feminism [or women's rights movement; or women's liberation movement]
[10] This conservative woman fought against feminist efforts for an Equal Rights Amendment to the US
Constitution. Her son Andrew runs Conservapedia.
ANSWER: Phyllis Schlafly
[10] This black author of Sisters of Yam, who used a Sojourner Truth quote to title her book Ain't I a Woman, writes
about the intersection of black and third-world identities with feminism using an uncapitalized pen name.
ANSWER: bell hooks [or Gloria Jean Watkins] <Jackson>
17. Paul O'Rourke, a man in this profession, has his identity stolen by a religious group that thinks that he's an
"Ulm" in Joshua Ferris' novel To Rise Again at a Decent Hour. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this profession shared by an inhabitant of San Francisco who kills his wife Trina to access her lottery
winnings and ultimately dies of exposure after being handcuffed to Marcus Schouler in Death Valley.
ANSWER: dentists [accept word forms like dentistry]
[10] The latter dentist is the title character of McTeague, a novel by this American naturalist. His planned Epic of the
Wheat trilogy includes a novel in which Laura Dearborn marries Curtis Jadwin, who becomes obsessed with grain
speculation and trading, called The Pit.
ANSWER: Frank Norris [or Benjamin Franklin Norris, Jr.]
[10] This first novel in the Epic of the Wheat was inspired in part by the Mussel Slough Tragedy. In it, Magnus
Derrick leads a league of wheat farmers opposed to the expansion of the Pacific & Southwestern Railroad, which is
analogized to the title animal.
ANSWER: The Octopus <Bentley>
18. Answer the following about 17th century artists who used dramatic lighting, for 10 points each.
[10] Light emerges from an unseen window to the right of the canvas in this Italian Baroque artist's The Calling of
Saint Matthew.
ANSWER: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi; do not prompt on just "Michelangelo"]
[10] Caravaggio and Artemisia Gentileschi both painted eerily lit versions of this bloody scene from the Apocrypha,
in which one title character decapitates the other after seducing her way into his tent.
ANSWER: Judith beheading Holofernes [or Judith and Holofernes; or Judith Slaying Holofernes]
[10] Representative canvases by this French artist include St. Joseph the Carpenter and a painting where Saint Jerome
holds a candle to the piece of paper he's reading.
ANSWER: Georges de La Tour <Bentley>
19. After each of these events, Moses would ask "Let my people go," and after all but the last one, Pharaoh would
refuse. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these divine punishments which preceded the Exodus of the Israelites. They included a swarm of
locusts, a cloud of darkness so thick that people could touch it, and the death of every Egyptian first-born son.
ANSWER: the ten plagues of Egypt
[10] Before the tenth plague, Israelites marked their doors with this substance so that the Angel of Death would
know to pass over them -- hence the term "Passover."
ANSWER: lamb's blood [prompt on blood]
[10] In the Book of Exodus, this metaphor describes what God did to make Pharaoh stubborn and unwilling to
listen to Moses or Aaron each time they pleaded for the Israelites' freedom.
ANSWER: his heart was hardened [or the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart] <Jackson>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 12 of 13

20. One account says that the losing commander in this battle perished when the hut he was hiding in burned
down. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this battle where Valens was killed by forces under Fritigern.
ANSWER: Battle of Adrianople [or Battle of Hadrianopolis]
[10] The Romans at Adrianople were defeated by an army of the Eastern branch of these "barbarians," whose
Western branch gained control of Italy under Theodoric the Great. A leader of these people, Alaric, sacked Rome in
410.
ANSWER: Goths [or Ostrogoths or Visigoths]
[10] The successor of Valens, Theodosius, made this council's version of Christianity into Rome's official religion.
This eucemenical council, held in 325, condemned Arianism and resulted in the creation of a namesake creed.
ANSWER: First Council of Nicaea <Bentley>
21. At one meeting, this faction's views were defended by their spokesman Thomas Rainsborough. For 10 points
each:
[10] Name this political movement prominently supported by John Lilburne, which published the Agreement of the
People. They weren't as extreme as the Diggers, whose demands for equality among male Englishmen went even
further.
ANSWER: Levellers
[10] The Agreement of the People was rejected by the New Model Army in favor of the more conservative Heads of
Proposals at this series of debates in 1647.
ANSWER: Putney Debates
[10] The New Model Army fought for this legislative body, and against the king, in the English Civil War.
ANSWER: English Parliament <Wang>
22. This character wakes up thinking of the word "Shakespeare" after dreaming of a sunny pasture called the
"Golden Country". For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who betrays his lover when he is threatened with a "common punishment in Imperial China," a
wire cage full of rats.
ANSWER: Winston Smith [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Winston Smith is tortured by O'Brien in this dystopian novel by George Orwell.
ANSWER: Nineteen Eighty-Four [or 1984]
[10] During the torture, O'Brien presents Winston with a photo exonerating three former Inner Party members of
the crimes for which they were executed, and Winston recalls seeing them in the Chestnut Tree Café before their
deaths. Name any one of them.
ANSWER: Jones [or Aaronson; or Rutherford] <Yu>
23. The K type of these devices is composed of mainly chromium and aluminum. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these sensitive temperature monitors that work according to the Seebeck effect. They register a voltage
when the temperature is changed, due to an internal junction of two different conductors.
ANSWER: thermocouples
[10] The Seebeck effect is a result of a difference in this quantity for the two conductors. This quantity is the
amount of energy required to excite an electron from the surface of a metal in the photoelectric effect.
ANSWER: work function [prompt on phi]
[10] The photoelectric effect was first identified by this German physicist, who placed a spark gap in a box and
applied UV radiation. The SI unit of frequency is named for him.
ANSWER: Heinrich Hertz <Silverman>

PACE NSC 2015 - Round 14 - Page 13 of 13

