2012 NHBB Set A 
Bowl Round 1 
First Quarter 
BOWL ROUND 1 
1. After the fall of this location, Seth Warner captured the nearby Fort Crown Point. During the recapture of 
this location, Simon Fraser led the British charge up Mount Hope. Before this fort was retaken by John 
Burgoyne from Arthur St. Clair during the Saratoga campaign, artillery from this fort was transported to 
Boston by Henry Knox. The Green Mountain Boys under Ethan Allen helped capture this fort. For 10 
points, name this New York fort captured by Benedict Arnold. 
ANSWER: Fort  
Ticonderoga 
149-12-66-01101 
2. This President reorganized the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare into the Department of 
Health and Human Services and the Department of Education. He also created the Department of Energy. 
This man signed a treaty with Omar Torrijos setting 1999 as the end of U.S. control of the Panama Canal. 
This man’s presidency saw SALT II and a meeting between Anwar Sadat and Menachem Begin at Camp 
David. For 10 points, name this 2002 Nobel Peace Prize winner, a President from Georgia. 
ANSWER: Jimmy  
Carter 
 [or James Earl  
Carter 
] 
138-12-66-01102 
3. In June 2012, a plane operated by Dana Airlines crashed in this country's most populous city. An 
insurgency group in this nation whose name means \"forbidden book\" attacked schools in Maidugiri. That 
group, which killed one hundred civilians in Kano in January 2012, is named Boko Haram and comes from 
this nation's Muslim north. Goodluck Jonathan has been president of this country since the 2010 death of 
Umaru Yar'Adua. For 10 points, name this most populous African country. 
ANSWER: Federal Republic of  
Nigeria 
192-12-66-01103 
4. This bill was repealed in less than a year, but its repeal coincided with the passing of the Declaratory Act 
that reaffirmed the power of Parliament. This bill sparked a congress of the same name which met in New 
York City, passed the Declaration of Rights and Grievances, and stressed the need that colonies should 
have self-representation. For 10 points, name this controversial 1765 piece of British legislation regarding 
the American colonies that imposed a tax on written documents. 
ANSWER:  
Stamp Act 
 of 1765 
064-12-66-01104 
5. A literary passage depicting this god is named in analogy to the traditional Scottish practice of \"flyting,\" 
or exchanging insults. He was not worshipped at cult sites, and has essentially no sources besides the 
Eddas. In those poems, this god cuts off Sif’s golden hair. This god mated with Svaoilfari to give birth to 
the horse Sleipnir. At Ragnarok, this god will be killed by Heimdall. This god is the father of Jormangander 
and Fenrir. For 10 points, name this trickster god of Norse mythology. 
ANSWER:  
Loki 
 [do not accept “Lokir”] 
135-12-66-01105 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  1 of 10 
6. This event was perpetrated by the founder of the newspaper  
Agrani 
. In its aftermath, the RSS was 
temporarily banned from activity and suspicion was laid on the leader of Mahasabha, Vinayak Savarkar. 
The Kapur Commission investigated this incident, which led to the hanging of Narayan Apte. The words 
\"Bapu is already late\" were uttered outside the Birla House to this event's perpetrator, Nathuram Godse. For 
10 points, name this event in which a leader of Indian nonviolence was killed. 
ANSWER:  
assassination of M 
ohandas Karamchand  
Gandhi 
 [or or the  
assassination of M 
ahatma  
Gandhi 
; prompt on  
assassination of Gandhi 
] 
192-12-66-01106 
7. A system of indentured servitude in this present-day nation known as  
ubuhake 
 was abolished by Mwami 
Mutara III. One ethnic group from this country was derisively called  
inyenzi 
, or cockroaches. A plane crash 
killing the founder of the MRND, Juvenal Habyarimana, led to violence in this nation between the 
Interahamwe and Paul Kagame's RPF forces. For 10 points, name this African nation that faced a 1994 
genocide of Tutsis by Hutus. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Rwanda 
 [or Republika y'u  
Rwanda 
] 
192-12-66-01107 
8. This religious group takes part in the ten-day Mourning of Muharram, which commemorates their side’s 
loss at the Battle of Karbala. The largest sect in this group believes that the Mahdi is currently in hiding; 
that group is called the Twelvers. This group believes that Ali was the first caliph. The majority of the 
population in Iran and Iraq are members of this branch of Islam, the world’s second-largest. For 10 points, 
name this counterpart of Sunni Islam. 
ANSWER:  
Shi'a 
 Islam [or  
Shi'a 
s; or  
Shi'ites 
; prompt on  
Islam 
 or  
Muslim 
s before \"Islam\"] 
131-12-66-01108 
9. This man chronologically listed rulers from Nabonassar to Antoninus Pius in his  
Canon of Kings 
. This 
namesake of an open cluster in the tail of Scorpius collected his writings on astrology in his  
Tetrabiblos 
and mapped a world spanning from the Fortunate Islands to Serica in his  
Geographia 
. His best-known 
work contains a table of chords and posits a geocentric universe. For 10 points, name this author of the  
Almagest 
, an early Alexandrian astronomer. 
ANSWER: Claudius  
Ptolemy 
 [or Claudius  
Ptolemaeus 
] 
029-12-66-01109 
10. This leader's death was prompted by a message from defence minister von Blomburg that Hindenburg 
intended to declare martial law. His deputy was Edmund Heines, who was also notably homosexual. This 
leader commanded the SA after the Stennes Revolt, although the SA was soon superseded by the SS after 
he and other SA leaders were purged at Bad Wiessee. For 10 points, name this Nazi leader who was 
executed as part of the Night of the Long Knives on Hitler's orders as a possible rival. 
ANSWER: Ernst  
Rohm 
126-12-66-01110 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  2 of 10 
2012 NHBB Set A 
Bowl Round 1 
Second Quarter 
1. This class of people had to undergo torture first before they could testify in a court of law. These people 
could collect a sum of money called a  
peculium 
, which they could use to become  
liberti 
. They were not 
able to resist sexual advances by a citizen. Greek ones often served as tutors to the youth, while others 
served as gladiators. For 10 points, name these unfree residents of ancient Rome. 
ANSWER: Roman  
slaves 
 [or  
servi 
] 
BONUS: In what festival, held in December, were Roman slaves allowed to insult their masters? 
ANSWER: the  
Saturnalia 
080-12-66-01101 
2. Among the sites of this project include the Whitehead Institute and Washington University in St. Louis. 
This effort used a technique developed by Frederick Sanger, and assembled the readout into contigs. This 
effort was coordinated from the NHGRI, which at the time was headed by Francis Collins. This effort was 
competed against by Celera, headed by Craig Venter. For 10 points, name this public effort to map the 
DNA sequence of Homo sapiens. 
ANSWER:  
Human Genome Project 
 [or  
HGP 
] 
BONUS: Celera, the rival project headed by Craig Venter, utilized the whole genome form of this 
sequencing method. 
ANSWER:  
shotgun 
 sequencing 
048-12-66-01102 
3. This man hired the architect al-Sahili to construct buildings in a city that was taken by the Mossi late in 
his rule. This man ordered the construction of Sankore University and was succeeded by his son, Maghan. 
On his most famous journey, this man visited Sultan Al-Nasir Muhammad and went through Cairo and 
Medina. For 10 points, name this ruler of Mali whose pilgrimage to Mecca was so extravagant that it 
supposedly lowered the value of gold. 
ANSWER: Mansa  
Musa 
 I 
BONUS: Sankore University is located in what city of the Mali Empire? 
ANSWER:  
Timbuktu 
192-12-66-01103 
4. This practice drove the economies of the kingdoms of Khasso and Bamana. An illegal instance of this 
practice was the subject of the  
Amistad 
 case. The Bight of Benin was a major center of this activity. 
Ignatius Sancho argued for the end of this enterprise in Britain, as did William Wilberforce. The U.S. 
Constitution prohibited ending this practice before the 1808. It formed the westbound leg of the triangular 
trade. For 10 points, name this exchange that involved capturing and transporting people from West Africa. 
ANSWER: Atlantic  
slave trade 
 [or equivalent answers; prompt on  
slavery 
] 
BONUS: What common name for the slave experience during the trans-Atlantic trade reflects its position at 
the crux of the Triangular Trade? 
ANSWER: the  
middle passage 
132-12-66-01104 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  3 of 10 
5. This man was known for his superstition of carrying hairpins in his back pocket, and he scored the first 
run in Tiger Stadium. This man is the subject of a magical realist novel by W.P. Kinsella which was 
adapted into the film  
Field of Dreams. 
 A onetime player for the Greenville Spinners, his bat was known as 
Black Betsy. For 10 points, name this all-time great hitter who was banned from baseball for his role in the 
Black Sox Scandal and was nicknamed for his onetime lack of footwear. 
ANSWER: “Shoeless” Joe  
Jackson 
BONUS. The Black Sox lost the tainted World Series to what team, which suffered its own enormous 
scandal in the 1980s when its manager, Pete Rose, was banned for life for gambling on games he 
participated in? 
ANSWER:  
Cincinnati 
 Reds [or Cincinnati  
Reds 
] 
030-12-66-01105 
6. In the leadup to this event, David Jacobsen and Benjamin Weir were released. Brad Reynolds and John 
Richardson were pivotal in exposing this event, and in-depth analysis of this event was performed by the 
Tower Commission, which ultimately implicated Oliver North and John Poindexter. For 10 points, identify 
this event in the Reagan administration, in which the U.S. dealt in exchanges with a Middle Eastern country 
and anti-Sandinista rebels. 
ANSWER:  
Iran-Contra 
 affair or deal or scandal 
BONUS: Sandinistas and Contras fought in this Central American country, which the U.S. dealt with in the 
Iran-Contra affair. 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Nicaragua 
189-12-66-01106 
7. Benjamin Britten's  
Diversions 
 is one of several special concertos for this instrument that were written for 
Paul Wittgenstein. A performance of Tchaikovsky's B-flat minor concerto for this instrument won fame for 
Van Cliburn. Debussy wrote two books of preludes for this instrument, as well as the  
Petite suite 
 for this 
instrument, \"four hands.\" For 10 points, name this instrument whose modern version has 88 keys. 
ANSWER:  
piano 
BONUS: The  
Sonatas and Interludes 
 for \"prepared piano,\" in which objects such as screws and bolts are 
placed on the instrument's strings, were written by what composer of  
4'33\" 
? 
ANSWER: John  
Cage 
142-12-66-01107 
8. One attempt to set the high score in a game where the player controls this character was undertaken by 
Steve Wiebe and is depicted in  
A Fistful of Quarters. 
 Originally called Jumpman, this character is 
supposedly shorter than his kin, according to  
Smash. 
 This character first appeared in a game where he 
jumps over barrels to rescue Pauline from Donkey Kong. For 10 points, name this mustachioed plumber 
who appears in many Nintendo games. 
ANSWER:  
Mario 
BONUS. In the edutainment game  
Mario is Missing, 
 Luigi visits this city to return the Mosque of 
Mohammed Ali, which had been stolen by Koopas. 
ANSWER:  
Cairo 
, Egypt 
149-12-66-01108 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  4 of 10 
2012 NHBB Set A 
Bowl Round 1 
Third Quarter 
THE WILD WEST 
Which personality from the American west… 
1. Ran a famous wild west show featuring Annie Oakley? 
ANSWER:  
Buffalo Bill 
 Cody [or William Frederick  
Cody 
] 
2. Teamed with brothers Virgil and Morgan in the infamous Tombstone-set gunfight at the O.K. Corral? 
ANSWER: Wyatt Berry Stapp  
Earp 
3. Was an outlaw who led the Wild Bunch Gang with his partner \"the Sundance Kid?\" 
ANSWER: Butch  
Cassidy 
 [or Robert LeRoy  
Parker 
] 
4. Was an outlaw who teamed with his brother Frank and was killed by Robert Ford in 1882? 
ANSWER: Jesse Woodson  
James 
5. Was a gunfighter nicknamed \"Wild\" who was killed in Deadwood after drawing the \"dead-man's hand?\" 
ANSWER: Wild Bill  
Hickok 
 [or James Butler  
Hicock 
] 
6. Was a tubercular dentist who also took part in the gunfight at the O.K. Corral? 
ANSWER: Doc  
Holliday 
 [or John Henry  
Holliday 
] 
7. Was a San Francisco resident who claimed himself to be \"emperor\" of the United States? 
ANSWER: Joshua Abraham  
Norton 
 [or  
Norton 
 I] 
8. Was a New Mexico sheriff best known for killing outlaw Billy the Kid? 
ANSWER: Patrick Floyd  
Garrett 
052-12-66-0110-1 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  5 of 10 
US POLITICAL CARTOONS 
Which nineteenth century American politician was depicted in a famous political cartoon…... 
1. Purchasing the Louisiana Territory from Napoleon Bonaparte while President? 
ANSWER: Thomas  
Jefferson 
2. Holding his opponent in the 1864 presidential election, George McClellan, in the palm of his hand? 
ANSWER: Abraham  
Lincoln 
3. With his head replaced by a sack of money, in a series done by Thomas Nast? 
ANSWER: Boss  
Tweed 
 [or William Magear  
Tweed 
] 
4. Fighting a many-headed serpent in his crusade against the Second Bank of the US? 
ANSWER: Andrew  
Jackson 
5. Arm-in-arm with the \"Solid South\" after he defeated Samuel Tilden in the Election of 1876? 
ANSWER: Rutherford Birchard  
Hayes 
6. Living in a log cabin and drinking hard cider in a campaign against Martin van Buren? 
ANSWER:  illiam Henry  
W Harrison 
 [prompt  
Harrison 
; do not accept \"Benjamin Harrison\"] 
7. Being asked \"Ma, Ma, where's my Pa?\" by the alleged illegitimate child he fathered in the White House? 
ANSWER: Stephen Grover  
Cleveland 
8. Holding a stack of newspapers while simultaneously running for President in 1872? 
ANSWER: Horace  
Greeley 
190-12-66-0110-1 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  6 of 10 
US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS 
In which U.S. Presidential election year did… 
1. George W. Bush first become U.S. President? 
ANSWER:  
2000 
2. Franklin Roosevelt use the song \"Happy Days are Here Again\" to defeat Herbert Hoover? 
ANSWER: 19 
32 
3. The  
Chicago Tribune 
 accidentally print the headline \"Dewey defeats Truman?\" 
ANSWER: 19 
48 
4. Members of the White House \"plumbers\" break into the Watergate hotel? 
ANSWER: 19 
72 
5. Adlai E. Stevenson claim \"The same god made us all\" before losing to Dwight Eisenhower the first time? 
ANSWER: 19 
52 
6. Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. defeat Barry Goldwater as a write-in candidate in the New Hampshire primary? 
ANSWER: 19 
64 
7. The Republican candidate run the \"Revolving Door\" and the \"Tank Ride\" ad, which was responded to in 
the \"Counterpunch\" ad? 
ANSWER: 19 
88 
8. James Stockdale begin a vice presidential debate by asking \"Who am I? Why am I here?\" 
ANSWER: 19 
92 
149-12-66-0110-1 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  7 of 10 
2012 NHBB Set A 
Bowl Round 1 
Fourth Quarter 
1.  
One of the men from this region who ruled over Sicily was Robert Guiscard. A ruler of this place 
signed the treaty of St. Clair-sur-Epte with Charles the Simple, giving (+) Rollo control of this place. 
A man often inaccurately called Robert the Devil was a duke of this region, whose son succeeded 
Harold (*) 
 Godwinson as ruler of England. It was named for its settlement by Vikings. For 10 points, name 
this region, the home to William the Conqueror. 
ANSWER: Duchy of  
Normandy 
121-12-66-01101 
2.  
This nation’s anti-communist Patriotic People’s Movement was a continuation of its earlier 
far-right Lapua movement. In one conflict this country employed a sniper called the (+) White 
Death. This nation, which used motti encirclement tactics to win the Battle of Raate Road, was forced 
to lease Porkkala after losing the (*) 
 Continuation War. During another conflict it was led by Carl 
Mannerheim. For 10 points, name this nation which fought the Winter War with the Soviet Union, and was 
the site of the signing of the Helsinki Accords. 
ANSWER:  
Finland 
048-12-66-01102 
3.  
This man argued for the annexation of Texas in his role as John Tyler's Secretary of State. Earlier, 
this politician defended slavery in Congress by referring to it as a \"positive good.\" As Secretary of 
War, he created the Bureau of Indian Affairs. His wife, (+) Floride, shunned Peggy Eaton and thus 
began the Petticoat Affair. This Vice President to (*) 
 John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson attacked 
the Tariff of Abominations in his \"South Carolina Exposition and Protest.\" For 10 points, name this Senator 
from South Carolina who advocated nullification. 
ANSWER: John Caldwell  
Calhoun 
192-12-66-01103 
4.  
It isn’t a Punic War, but this war’s final days featured the “Hannibal war” involving Hannibal 
Sehested. During it, the battle of Rocroi was won by a man known as \"le Great Conde.\" This war’s 
peace terms gave Alsace back to France in a treaty negotiated by Cardinal (+) Mazarin. While 
fighting at the Lech River during the Battle of Rain, the Count of Tilly died in it, and an opposing 
ruler perished during the battle of (*) 
 Lutzen. For 10 points, name this European war whose heroes 
included Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus, and which was ended by the Peace of Westphalia. 
ANSWER:  
Thirty Years 
 War 
052-12-66-01104 
5.  
This island is the world’s leading exporter of ylang-ylang and vanilla. This country’s royal family 
was sent east to the nearby Reunion Island after being colonized by the French. (+) Malagasy is the 
national language of this island that was also a proposed site for Jewish resettlement during the 
Third Reich. Maromoktro, located in the (*) 
 Tsaratana Massif, is the highest point on this island. 
Separated from the mainland by the Mozambique Channel, this island is home to many lemurs. For 10 
points, what is the largest island off the coast of Africa? 
ANSWER: Republic of  
Madagascar 
149-12-66-01105 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  8 of 10 
6.  
This artist painted a broad white collar with jagged edges in a facial portrait of a Moorish member 
of his workshop, and showed a blue-and-white checkered flag beneath a row of twenty-nine lances on 
the right of a history painting centering on the handing over of (+) keys. This painter of  Potrait of 
Juan de Pareja  and  The Surrender of Breda  depicted himself in a painting where his employer, King 
(*) 
 Philip IV, appears in a wall mirror while a dog and dwarves play with the Infanta Margarita. For 10 
points, name this Spanish painter of  
Las Meninas 
. 
ANSWER: Diego Rodriguez de Silva y  
Velazquez 
104-12-66-01106 
7.  
This grandson of Mircea the Elder defeated Hamza Pasha near Girgiu after refusing to pay a jizya 
tax. His wife threw herself into a river from Poenari Castle. He forged an unsteady alliance with 
John (+) Hunyadi against his nemesis, Mehmed II. He became enemies with his brother Radu the 
Handsome after Radu converted to Islam, leading this man to kill many people of that faith in a (*) 
notorious fashion. For 10 points, name this Prince of Wallachia whose reputation for cruelty connected him 
to Bram Stoker's Count Dracula. 
ANSWER:  
Vlad the Impaler 
 [or  
Vlad III 
 Dracula; or  
Vlad Tepes 
; prompt on  
Vlad 
; do not accept \"Vlad 
Dracul\"] 
192-12-66-01107 
8.  
In one poem by this writer, the speaker imagines a \"Ledaean body bent above a sinking fire\" as he 
walks \"Among School Children.\" He stated that \"An aged man is but a paltry thing\" in another 
poem. He described \"MacDonagh and MacBride, And (+) Connolly and Pearse\" in his poem about 
an anti-British uprising, (*) 
 \"Easter 1916.\" Another of his poems describes a \"vast image out of Spiritus 
Mundi\" and includes the phrase \"things fall apart.\" For 10 points, name this Irish poet of \"Sailing to 
Byzantium\" and \"The Second Coming.\" 
ANSWER: William Butler  
Yeats 
192-12-66-01108 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  9 of 10 
2012 NHBB Set A 
Bowl Round 1 
Extra Questions 
This attack took place in the same city that the Biscayne assembly met under the Gernikako Arbola, 
which survived this event. George Steer published one of the first accounts of this event, which was 
partly carried out by the (+) Aviazione Legionaria. This attack, which was called Operation Rugen, 
was carried out by a detachment of the Luftwaffe known as the (*) 
 Condor Legion in an attempt to 
make inroads into Basque-controlled territory. For 10 points, name this massacre during the Spanish Civil 
War, famously memorialized in a Picasso painting. 
ANSWER: Bombing of  
Guernica 
048-12-66-0110-1 
During one of this man’s gubernatorial terms, cannons were lined up within ear shot of each other 
and fired off to announce the completion of a construction project. In one election, he had to defeat 
Peter Buell Porter, who was backed by (+) Tammany Hall. Also known as “Magnus Apollo,” this 
man ran on the “People’s Party” ticket with James Tallmadge as his Lieutenant Governor. Opposed 
by the (*) 
 Bucktails, this man was the Federalist candidate against James Madision in the election of 1812. 
For 10 points, name this governor of New York who built the Erie Canal. 
ANSWER:  eWitt  
D Clinton 
 [prompt on  
Clinton 
] 
149-12-66-0110-1 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org) 
2012 NHBB Set A     Bowl Round 1     Page  10 of 10 
